ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I inform you that Mr Ivan Sisinger, Member of the National Assembly, died in 1992-1994. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. Thank you very much. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Franz Pukšič, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti and Mr Laszlo Göncz. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE INTERPELATION ON THE PART AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE INTERNAL MATTERS OF CATARA CRESSAL. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Branku Grims for explanation of interpolation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u2	Your Honor! I'm gathering a very nice greeting for everyone at today's session! Today, the topic of interpretation is against the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal. In the context of this interpolation, it will actually be necessary to highlight two. Firstly, it would not have been possible for this interpolation if the ruling coalition, including with Mrs Kresal, had been able to take a step through the struggle for political prestige and sit down with the opposition and find consensus, a compromise text on the constitutional law that could solve the issue of so-called deleted persons in a just and just manner. Unfortunately, although we have tabled a proposal for such a law, we have highlighted that the subject matter of negotiations, as far as we are concerned, may be the whole text, with the exception of two starting points, that each case is dealt with individually, i.e. individually, and that, of course, those who have calculated with the issue of Slovenian autonomy or even attacked the state of Slovenia with weapons cannot benefit from it. Nevertheless, the opposite side did not have the slightest willingness to have such a conversation and agreement. This is why we are meeting at this meeting today, which could have been avoided, as it were said, if the apparently ruling coalition were not merely a struggle for political prestige and the purchase of new voters at the expense of taxpayers, we would not be meeting today. What will be the second red thread of this session is the endless story of the overthrow of the ruling coalition, including Minister Katarina Kresal. This is in a symbolic way, even before the government itself was appointed, the current Minister of Public Administration, Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who, at the hearing on the question of the so-called deleted story and the case itself, which was extremely publicized, also published on the website of the Peace Institute, replied that it was then by so-called deleted to establish a state which would justify the very high compensation claims they had filed and to achieve these high claims, are, I quote, Mrs. Irmo Pavlinič Krebs: "When the pressure was exerted [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The authorities just had to make things up." [[...]] This is in the magnetogram of Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs' hearing. This makes it very clear that the parties who have power today and the Government themselves know very well what this story is about, and that this is, above all, the story of compensations, claims for money, justified or unfounded expectations based on the actions of Mrs Katarina Kresal and in some way, regrettably, I must say this, it is also a matter of values respected by one party or another. Again, if I help myself to quote that there will be no comments that these things are not recorded or documented, one of the Members of the party that Mrs. Katarina Kresal presides over when there is a meeting in this State Assembly, I again have in my hands a magnetogram of the meeting when I highlighted that basic starting point, which we always stress in the SDS, when it comes to settling the issues so-called deleted, that if anyone has ever been wronged, let it be determined in an individual procedure that it should be corrected, but that none of those who speculated or even attacked the state of Slovenia can benefit from this, I quote: "What is disputed if people think about their benefits? Why should people not think about their benefits? Is that something illegal?Oh, my God! You seem to think someone's been thinking about their benefits, Mr Grims, that's something, I'll say, badly depraved. Where is the basis that prohibits people from calculating their own benefits? Tell me." And so on. It's also in the magnetogram of one of the meetings. In particular, this is a meeting of the Constitutional Commission of 12. 6. 2008 This says a great deal about the value point when it comes to the specific fates of people on the one hand, and therefore it is extremely sensitive, and on the other hand it is about the fundamental values of Slovenian statehood, namely the fundamental values of Slovenian independence, all of which our country is actually founded on. When it comes to interpolation alone, let me point out that this interpolation is actually a reflection of the story, which then took place from the elections themselves and the government's way forward, but in some ways it had one introductory part a long time ago. Even in the spring and summer, we also listened during the pre-election campaign, so this is the starting point for the current government, how none of the so-called deleted ones can get any compensation from this title, that it is pure deception to invent. At that time, Mr Todorovic, the long-standing president of the so-called deleted society, had already received a positive judgment on compensation, which, together with interest there, was estimated at up to EUR 55,000. If you multiply this by the now inflated number that we're still getting, 25 thousand 701 people are supposed to be erased, then you get incredibly high numbers with what amounts are being operated on. It is from this point of view that we can also argue that the last elections were a major electoral fraud. What happened just a few weeks after the new government was installed? In Belgrade, one of the key people of this coalition went and, in Belgrade, in the very city where a command was once issued to attack the independent state of Slovenia, announced the issue of decisions and the payment of damages. Moreover, in an official record published on the Serbian government's website, it was possible to read that at the time, the Serbian party's spokesman said that the number we operate on in Slovenia was 18,305 so-called deleted, too low and that it was actually a number close to 30,000 people. You will not believe, just a few weeks later, as a great discovery by the Ministry of the Interior, that the number 18,305 that the government once established was very similar to the present, at a time when Dr Rado Bohinc, who was a member of the SD, was essentially too low. And the number of so-called deleted suddenly increased to 25,701. This is said to be very close to the number given by the representative of the State of Serbia. This was at the same time the same period during which the first time in the proceedings was a concrete sum, namely the very long-standing president of the so-called so-called society deleted by Mr Todorovic. This is what the gentlemen of Belgrade, in the Serbian Assembly, have said, has started to take place in Slovenia. If it does not already raise a very interesting question, who in Slovenia rules or still Belgrade, and if such a question is too much, it certainly raises the question of who this authority feels responsible for. If Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, including all the new citizens and citizens who once regulated their status in accordance with the positive legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and are now paying for such political exploits of the current coalition, they would certainly have made such predictions at home in Slovenia and would not have gone to Belgrade. All of this, as we say, could be avoided if we agreed to discuss the constitutional law. Only the constitutional law would allow these things to be settled legally and fairly, and I stress this twice. Even in this hall, even just a few days ago, when we talked about these things, we could hear theories as if we were talking about a constitutional law, which is not the legal order of the matter. What's more legal than to regulate things at the constitutional level, that's the real "par excellence". And, of course, in this case, it is purely mere conjecture. It is therefore possible for the Minister herself to report four things on our part. First, that it has approached to address the issue of so-called deleted in an inappropriate manner. Here we need to highlight quite a few elements that say that this is an indisputable fact. Only the issue of so-called deleted, which is not really the case, has been very much on her side lately. But using the term "delete" or "deleted" without being relativized, without any pronunciation, as in the conversation we call "so-called," you know, it already has a big political note in itself, which is wrong. All those who know about political science know that the term 'delete' and, above all, the use of the term 'deleted' in international political science has been developed in connection with the Baltic countries, because tens of thousands of Russians have actually been deprived of their citizenship and then lived for a long time as some kind of apathy, virtually without rights. It is extremely inappropriate and misleading to apply this to the state of Slovenia. Since Slovenia did the exact opposite: at the time of its independence, as the only European country offered all citizens or any status, only a request had to be made: 600 tolars had to be paid and a written request had to be made. That's all there was to it and nothing else to do. No country, not only in the European Union, but in the world, did so arbitrarily treat all the people at the time of its creation. This makes the use of these terms extremely inappropriate. The only appropriate term would actually be 'transferred', because in fact nothing has happened but to regulate a list, people or their data have been marked on this list and there has been a formal transfer from the list of people with permanent residence to the list of foreigners without permanent residence. No one has been erased, so no one has been deprived of health care, as is often extremely maliciously deceived, because in Slovenia emergency health care is provided to everyone and is not bound at all to any status or to any other personal circumstances; if someone has health problems that require urgent action, he is provided with free medical care in Slovenia at any time. And everything else that is being said is, of course, as Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs said very well in her speech at the committee hearing before the present Government of Slovenia was set up to "play mainly for the stories they had at the time when they wanted to impose high damages and establish an appropriate atmosphere for this, they had to invent," if I quote Mrs Irmo Pavlinič Krebs again. What needs to be stressed in the introduction is that it is very clear to reject any suggestion that anyone would act unlawfully in the course of the actions committed in this transfer. This is extremely rude to Slovenia, to public administration, to people who were then working in accordance with the applicable legislation. Only ten years later, ten years later, more than ten years ago, if we are precise, did the Constitutional Court decide that one article of the law would be contrary to the Constitution. But here we raise the following question: "What exactly is the basis for issuing these decisions, which are now being issued on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court?" Here we come to one point which, for Slovenia as a country, also for its legal order, is extremely unpleasant. On the question of what, in fact, the Constitutional Court did at that time. For this debate cannot be reasoned if we do not touch on this argument. However, I think it would be problematic for each of us to interpret this in our own way, so I will read just a few summaries that are extremely important for our further discussion today, which Professor Dr. Tone Jerovšek, President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Professor of Constitutional Law and an outstanding expert in the constitutional field, which is even the author of the Slovenian Constitution, namely the chapter on human rights and one of the co-sponsors of the basic constitutional charter, the fundamental constitutional link on which the independent state of Slovenia was established. Surely no one is more competent to give an expert opinion on this decision of the Constitutional Court. There's something else I need to draw your attention to. There are many times in this hall, and certainly two will be heard today. First, that decisions of the Constitutional Court are not discussed, they shall be implemented. And who says that, people of God? This is said by those who only a few years ago, because they were saving their seat, not to say what they have under their spine, they changed the Constitution by constitutional law, not only overturned the Constitutional Court's decision, but even the direct decision of the people at the referendum, which voted in favour of a two-way majority electoral system and entered into the Constitution a proportional electoral system. This is what those who have done the exact opposite of themselves will today no doubt, as have been the case many times, explain how this should not be done. That this is also an expert nonsense, let me point out that Slovenia belongs to the Roman-German legal order, the Roman-German legal group. And already our closest neighbour, Austria, who is also supposed to be our constitutional example in this work, counts about one of the professors of constitutional law's statements, which he gave here at one of these public hearings of opinions on so-called deleted, about 50 cases when their Parliament settled matters by constitutional law differently than the Constitutional Court required. The point is that the Constitutional Court is not really over everyone, but democracy is based on the mutual balance of different branches of power. As long as the National Assembly acts as a legislator, it is, of course, bound by the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, the moment he becomes a founder, when he reaches a two-thirds consensus and adopts a constitutional law, he can do things differently. And in what he does, the Constitutional Court must not then intervene in any way, for only then is it bound. This is the essence of the balance of the various branches of government, and it is very often very senseless to deceive. As it is said, the best thing about this decision is Professor Dr. Tone Jerovšek, quoted now as saying: "If the limits of tolerance of people are being tested on issues that are burdened by sensitive events and living memories of Slovenian self-reliance, and those who have not been inclined or even acted against them appear with huge damages against relatively poorly paid employment and to the benefit of this call are also part of the policy, we are on the verge of dangerous playing with the patience of people. It is particularly worrisome if the suggestion for such claims and extortion is due to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has resolved 18,000 cases, which are not the same, but very different, by its unwarranted decision." [[End of quote.]] Why is this so important? There was a legal precedent here. In many such cases, the Constitutional Court has ruled on a case-by-case basis. Every person in Slovenia is guaranteed the right to judicial protection, and the final possibility is to appeal to the Constitutional Court. And that would be a normal procedure. Here it was for 18,000 cases at once. It wasn't like that before. It wasn't like that. As a result, Professor Dr. Tone Jerovšek follows: "We can only hope that the Constitutional Court, on the basis of constitutional equality and confidence in law, will do the same for thousands of workers who, in their own opinion, have lost their jobs illegally and must, by means of a single constitutional decision, be admitted back to their employees, irrespective of whether there are any differences between them." It also points to some other cases where proceedings are carried out unreasonablely long in large numbers and the Constitutional Court does not act in the same way. Where is the constitutional category of equality before the Constitution and the law? What is most important, I quote again Prof. Dr. Tonet Jerovška: "It was therefore legally permissible and even possible to do so-called deleted on the basis of the consequences arising from disregarding our law or abandoning the legal procedural options they had? No, I don't." This is said by the greatest expert in this field in the field of constitutional law and the President of the Constitutional Court. "They were made when the Constitutional Court incorrectly found the non-constitutionality of Article 81 on foreigners, which is included in Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus has the rank of constitutional law which the Constitutional Court cannot judge, especially since it is an act of the origin of our country. Therefore, Article 81 is untouchable for the Constitutional Court." This, ladies and gentlemen, is the original sin of this whole story. The Constitutional Court once allowed itself to reach into the very constitutional foundation of this country, the Basic Constitutional Charter, and declared one of its parts unconstitutional, which is a complete absurdity. It's even more absurd to put this in the time frame. The basic constitutional charter was published together with the Foreigners Act on 25 June 1991 at the time of Slovenian independence. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to which the Constitutional Court refers was published at the end of December 1991, after the law on foreigners on the basis of the basic constitutional charter had been in force for more than half a year. Then how could this matter be dismissed by the Constitutional Court? Prof. Dr. Tone Jerovšek explains this very simply and reasonedly. This is relevant because Minister Katarina Kresal consistently ignores all this. In order to erase the Constitutional Court, more illegal and illegal manoeuvres were needed. First, to establish the non-constitutionality of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is part of the Constitutional Law and is not in the Constitutional Court’s opinion, to silence the fact that under the law on foreigners and Article 13 of the Constitutional Law they were obliged to submit applications and to arrange for one of the status offered. To silence the constitutional option provided for in Article 157 of the Constitution, which provides that, if no other judicial protection is provided, the competent court shall also rule in an administrative dispute on the legality of individual acts and acts which infringe on the constitutional rights of the individual. The only legal way would therefore be to deal with each case on a case-by-case basis. From this conclusion, which is still quite relevant, and in some ways even, I must say, visionary, because this text was written and published in professional literature four years ago. The Constitutional Court ruling, I quote again Prof. Dr. Tonet Jerovška: "The decision of the Constitutional Court has come to political demagogs who burn for the human rights of some and, if possible, to others very well. Its consequences will be far-reaching and catastrophic for the reputation of the Constitutional Court. No one believes her because she's legally insufferable, except for the blind and the blind. The implementation of the decision has, of course, come under opposition and because disgruntled wishes to check for them the unacceptable legal way for its implementation in the referendum, the demagogues have launched a shouting and a cry that constitutional rights are not a referendum. In doing so, we cannot go beyond the horror of media support for those who have gravely violated the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure. The circumstances escalated to the point that even the detained President of the Republic, who had to protect the Parliament, had to call for respect for the Constitution. Whoever does not see the attempts to break democracy and institutions will, of course, sleep peacefully." This is a quote by Prof. Dr. Toneta Jerovska, who tells a great deal about the story that we are discussing here today. What would allow this whole story to be avoided would be just a gesture of goodwill for the ruling coalition to step forward through its struggle for political prestige through the purchase of new voters at the expense of taxpayers and agree to a constitutional law debate. For this reason, since it has been repeatedly said that if those who once supported this have changed their position, I must warn you that this is not true, at least in the case of Prof. Dr. Tonet Jerovška, this is not true. Even in the case of many other constitutional law professors who have advocated settling this issue by constitutional law, this is an unrealistic claim, although it is also stated in the explanation of Mrs Katarina Kresal's reply. What would be particularly noteworthy is that the constitutional law in the past period has been supported by, in addition to most of the most prominent constitutional experts, by the former President of the State, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, who is unfortunately already deceased and the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, who later unfortunately changed his mind. All of this is, of course, an argument that the handling of this issue by Katarina Kresal, Madam Minister of the Interior, is inappropriate. What is at least so, if not even more problematic, is the complete ignoring of the referendum on the so-called technical law on so-called deleted, because in Slovenia we had a referendum on this topic. The referendum, which was actually held only because the National Assembly then missed a time limit for the appeal, but gave an extremely clear message, because 94.68% of all those attending the referendum voted against exactly the way this issue is regulated, as is now being used again by the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal. This is the total ignorance of the clearly expressed will of the one who has the only authority in democracy, and this is the people, because everything else is just forms, the exercise of this power. For this reason, ignoring such a clear message is clearly undemocratic, and it becomes even more evident when I quote the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Goran Klemenčič, who said at one of the press conferences that the issue of deleted persons will be resolved by following the decisions of the Constitutional Court, I quote, "as a drunken fence" and added that things will already be carried out so that, again, I quote Mr Klemenčič, "no legal disputes will be possible against this solution, such as a referendum". For this authority, for the Ministry of the Interior, which is already repressive, the realization of the direct authority of the people as a fundamental constitutional democratic principle is obviously some kind of legal dispute. If anyone wanted any better proof of the undemocratic nature of the current government, then I must say that it is difficult to imagine at all. It is, in their opinion, some sort of unpleasant complication that needs to be avoided. So, of course, they do what they do. That is all I think would require a change in the Ministry. And I firmly believe that for those who will discuss it in the opposite direction later on, because it is behind your political account, it is also silent to see the same conviction of such statements. For a referendum to qualify as an administrative dispute or a legal dispute as such, such an understanding in the executive branch should simply not be possible. Of course, this is a consultation referendum in which case it may be a confirmation referendum, but any expressed will at the referendum carries a clear political message. And if anyone is a Democrat, he will take such a message into account in his further action. This is just some standard that applies in all democratic countries that know the referendum. And it's unreasonable that this is completely ignored here. What we read next to the Minister of Home Affairs is creating inequalities before the law. This is a problem that is even multi-layered in this category. The Ministry now repeats the same mistake that the Ministry has already made in its previous mandate under the leadership of Dr Bohinca, a member of the SD, who introduced two categories also among the so-called deleted. Decisions are also now being issued without any legal basis, and I am particularly reminding you that more than 10 even the most respected constitutional law professionals have been warned that decisions should not be issued without the basis of the law at all. Among them, you will find Dr. Frances Bucar, Dr. Grad and many others not to list all of them. And that's the only thing that's very controversial. Even more controversial is the fact that, in the same breath, it is predicted that after decisions have been passed without law to this group, without a legal basis, a special law will be adopted in which certain rights are also expected to be restricted and on this basis all other decisions are to be issued. From this it is crystal clear in advance that these two groups will be in an unequal position. So the question of equality is raised before the law, which is simply a constitutional category. For this reason, I reiterate that this issue should be settled by constitutional law. Why? Because it is the only way to settle this issue for all in the same way, on the same principles and on the same criteria and on the basis of the same procedure. The current conduct of our beliefs is obviously not in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, it is clearly contrary to the constitutional principle of equality before the law. However, the additional inequality stems from a comparison between this category, between the so-called completely deleted and the others who have received or will receive certain compensation under another legislation. In particular, the inequality between the victims of World War II war, where everyone has to begin the process, the amount of compensation is very limited, severely limited. All problems must be solved by an individual alone and here, where this is handled with his left hand, at the expense of taxpayers at the same time. It's clearly an inequality before the law. Obvious inequality, which is contrary to the fundamental principle of the Slovenian Constitution. Therefore, it does not hold that claim, which was also a few meetings back by the government summit, that the current regulation is in line with the legal order and is comparable to other legal arrangements when it comes to compensation issues in Slovenia. That's not true. Far from it. The group of so-called deleted is now significantly more privileged than any other group of Slovenian nationals and citizens to compensate. You won't find a country where there would be a similar situation. I'm sure of that. What is particularly problematic and symbolic in some way, however, is that without constitutional law it is not possible to expel speculators, nor, worse still, can those who were aggressors to the independent state of Slovenia be excluded. To talk about what the court will do in a court of law is, of course, bluffing the worst kind and misdirection, what I said would be a red thread anyway, when the parties' so-called transitional lefts listen to the argument for the current doing. In the event that the Celje Court had already ruled on JLA officers, who had kidnapped some Slovenian citizens during the war on Slovenia, physically disposed of them, physical violence was also committed and then released after a few hours, they were all forgiven. Do you know what the explanation is?Oh, my God! That JLA until October 1991, I quote, "was not Slovenia's enemy army." In such a case-by-case judgment, of course, to count that this will be settled by the court or even to state it as its argument, is knowingly misleading or unacceptable naivety. This needs to be regulated at the legal level within Parliament. The only way legally undefeated for this arrangement is by constitutional law. The one that I believe could be agreed on in just a few hours if the ruling coalition were not to buy new voters at the expense of taxpayers and, of course, political prestige. What, though, was the legal basis for the attack on Slovenia? Under international law, since it was a newly formed country, we had already adopted basic legal instruments, including the Basic Constitutional Charter on independence and independence, it was an attempt at occupation. The aggressors who attacked the state of Slovenia and used cluster bombs as part of this attack, i.e. the controversial weapons of mass destruction, are the invaders, the collaborators of the occupation. And given that you are rejecting the constitutional law and are now issuing decisions to everyone, it is clear that some who have been aggressors to the state of Slovenia will be among those who will receive these decisions. So for the first time in the history of Slovenia, they will receive compensation, they will receive material benefits from their employees. And that's what the same customers do, even to children, to those who were unlawful as civilians killed in time II. World War II or immediately thereafter, denies the status of the victim of war violence. I have to say that larger symbols are hard to say. The possibility of rewarding the invader or associate of the invader, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of an invader under a red star, is, of course, contrary to natural law and historical absurdity. But that's clearly your goal, and that's exactly what's going to happen to you. In addition, we would like to draw particular attention to the transfer of Minister Katarina Kresal, who asked the SDS to present the Slovenian Democratic Party with a list of JLA officers. Please! How can the Minister of the Interior request such a thing from a political party? It is clear that we do not have this, because neither can we and should not have it under Slovenian law. But the Minister certainly has this information. She's got them herself. However, if she has not been able to provide them or could have been able to provide them, we can only give her a hint to look at the very top of the Society of So-called Deleted and to look among those who are already making the highest demands that reach even up to EUR 980,000 against the state of Slovenia, she will find quite enough JLA officers to begin with. Even those who have been proven to have participated on the aggressor's side in the struggles during the self-conquering war. So much for swindling on this side as well. Of course, this comes to what is actually a red thread. Murphy's marriage says, whatever they're going to tell you, they're actually talking about money. And what is most problematic at this point in this story is that the ruling coalition has always denied, even in its previous mandate, what is at the heart of this story. The core of this story is double. First of all, it's about buying new voters at the expense of taxpayers. Secondly, it is a question of the huge costs for public finances arising from this. This acquisition of new voters by the ruling coalition takes place by reaching into the pocket of an average citizen, in his wallet, pulls out a few bills and then under cover of repair I don't know what kind of injustices he gives to someone else. These costs, which will be incurred and already arise at a time when Slovenia is facing an economic and financial crisis that is significantly deeper than it could have been, because the ruling coalition of measures started too slowly and too late and also what we proposed in due time, this is not just our opinion, it was also possible for you to hear from employers yesterday in some face-to-face on television, exhibit or disgrace to the point that it is simply not effective anymore. Yesterday, it was very clear that if the current ruling coalition, which once again out of political prestige rejected the proposals made in due time by the previous government under the leadership of Janez Janša, would not be facing as bad a situation as we are today. But in this state, ladies and gentlemen, the government with Mrs Katarina Kresal, who is responsible for this area, further deepens this by mishandling the so-called deleted. All the time, as we say, there's been a ruse about what's at the heart of this story. But in fact, it's just compensation. It's not about anything else. Then I will give a few more examples later, because they can be very well argued. What I want to point out is this right now. These costs will be multi-layered and talk too often exclusively about compensations that are the core of the story. However, the costs are already incurred by the decision-making process itself. These costs are also partly unfounded. The best proof of this is what happened at a time when Minister Rado Bohinc of the SD species acted in the same way. What's the matter? They admitted about 4,000 decisions, hundreds of them returned because those addresses were not appropriate. There was no one there. But what's even more interesting is that ten of them came back because those addresses never existed there. In Yugoslavia, the former Yugoslavia was able to register at any address within a given period. And no one's checked it out. Hence, this story of what terrible injustice should have been done only on the basis of a transfer from one list to another, to a large extent attracted to the hair. And this is just an additional argument that has unfolded in this decision-making exercise. Of course, you need to know that any such decision costs taxpayers. You just have to write a decision, it costs something. At that time, people who are supposed to do other things are doing this. And as a result, much more important things lie ahead for the state of Slovenia. That's actually the first cost. The second cost, which will arise and is usually forgotten, is the issue of judicial costs. See, only the cost of a court case can be extremely high, especially when it is dragged over several instances. So far, the actions filed, which have not even been based on these decisions - once they have been given decisions, will be substantially more legally justified, they will be more difficult to dismiss or refuse - show that the applicants will insist on all cases, which is linked to the very large costs that can go into the hundreds, even thousands of euros on a case-by-case basis. There are also costs that are constantly passed on, which are linked to legal services. At the end of this story, who's going to make the biggest profit is a big question. Nor is it necessary for all compensations to be paid, nor is it necessary for them to be paid in the amount demanded by those awaiting complaints. But surely there is something - a very high cost for this country will be legal services. And I'm asking the question: why is this taking place in the current way that constitutional law could avoid the entire proceedings? The constitutional law could substantially restrict, flatten or completely exclude legally irreparable damages. These are the opportunities the Constitutional Law offers. And in constitutional law, the court could no longer interfere. While regulating these matters by common law, as predicted by the ruling coalition, there is a great trap. Who can guarantee that in ten years' time, a Constitutional Court in a similar constitution, as it once was, does not again intervene in such a law, cancels the limitation of compensation and even opens the story from the beginning. And this, for example, is based on more positive economic movements than we are witnessing to them today. Who can give such a guarantee? Nobody. And if anyone gives it, then he's telling the truth. Not only does the Constitutional Court have such a possibility theoretically, but the Constitutional Court has already done so in the basic decision which is the source of the whole story. For these two reasons, therefore, the costs for taxpayers will be enormously high. The third cost, which is obviously already here, is the issue of compensation. There's quite a few calculations about that. The only information which is undeniable is that he received at first instance in his lawsuit Mr. Todorovic, the long-standing president of the Society of Deleted, the sum of about 17,300 principals and all legal interest back to the period there until 1996-1997, and then after calculation it amounts to some 55 000 euros. That's one example. If we multiply this by this increased number of so-called eraseds, we get a fantastic sum that's moving strong over a billion euros. Let me point out that all the austerity measures taken so far by the ruling coalition touch on the sum of a few decades or, at best, several hundred million euros. This sum is said to be significantly greater. For this reason, we can also say peacefully that this transition from the struggle for political prestige to the ruling coalition to the struggle to settle this issue in a just and just manner, which the constitutional law would undoubtedly be, certainly also the best austerity measure that this ruling coalition can take at this moment. At the same time, it would also be an extremely important signal, in the political sense of the word, that we are capable of an agreement, but that one thing should be properly regulated. At the outset, I announced that there are also very interesting evidences of individual events in this story, when, for example, individual decisions are being issued, and in some cases, it could also be convinced that in some cases now, as we could have heard at one of the press conferences yesterday, so-called deleted in the role of calling people who live near their homes and explaining that they should be careful what they are doing, because they will now get these apartments back under the Jazbinski Act. Whether this expectation is justified or not, we will leave it to the public and you, but there is no doubt that these costs we are talking about are also related to indirect costs. They're two kinds. One is the indirect costs of the court. You need to know in court, there are a number of trials going on. If a further 25,701 case is now pending, which will in the worst case be the exact result of the current division of decisions, claims for damages to the court, and then this procedure lasts over all instances, then the current backlogs will be so much larger. Many who wanted their constitutional right to judicial protection in court would wait very long or even in vain, and things would sooner or later be completely obsolete or the person entitled would no longer be able to wait for their right. But look, even in some professional public opinion, a number of very interesting information has been published, including in the context that these decisions may constitute a basis for acquiring other rights, for enforcing certain social transfers backwards. Do you know what this means at a time when the area of social transfers is already extremely burdened? In this way, with your irresponsible conduct, Mrs Minister and Government and the coalition as a whole, you are in some way extending the types of unemployed in Slovenian offices, those who put pressure on social transfers directly. You're putting all people in even more trouble than it would have been necessary. It is quite clear that a large part of these people do not live in Slovenia at all. If anyone really believes that 18,000 people in Slovenia can live without having any status for more than a decade, please, because we are not some banker. That's just not true. The thing is, these people obviously aren't here. Well, but what is some testimony to the end, which I would like to stress in particular, one of them was told here by Mr Alieski in this Parliament when we discussed this issue. He arranged his citizenship. He was born in Macedonia, one of the former Yugoslav republics, and in 1991 he calmly settled his status for himself and his family. He said that he was therefore ashamed of the surroundings by some of the then JLA officials, who even threatened him with weapons in front of his family. And today these people are at the top of the local committee of the Society of So-called Deleted and are making fun of it that the then traitor and now he will have to pay the compensation. That's what a valuable problem is in this story. And that would require a legal and just solution. This mode of regulation is not only unjust to all those who together have tried to create a new state, but is also unjust to all those 200,000 new citizens and citizens who have settled their status without problem in this country and will now, as taxpayers, have to pay compensation to those who speculate. Where else in the world have you seen anything like this? Answer that question. What kind of testimony from another hand - this has been published in the professional magazine Window of Administration, this is an expert magazine of administrative internal affairs. The case took place on the Cerknica Administrative Unit, when a citizen from the former SFRJ burned the Slovenian flag on the day of independence and then fled to the ZRN. A while ago, he volunteered with the administrative unit and told us with greatness that the state would apologize and pay him. But he is not the only one who explains in advance that the state will apologize, threaten and so on. It also happens that some citizens from the former republics who come to us have three passports: Bosnian, Yugoslav and Slovenian. They're showing that moment of the one that's most pleasing to them. "From daily experience with customers, I could say a lot about our country of law, which is a stepmother to its citizens. Every day, I find out how the country is allowed to molest, so it's no wonder that all the funds are empty. I wonder who will correct our injustices to our citizens." These are signed testimony published in an expert magazine related to this story, very interesting and very informative. Of course, in most Slovenian media, where there is a lot of hate speech against all those who advocate only the principle, let them take an individual look at things, because we say that it is a very heterogeneous group, that it is therefore necessary and necessary to deal with each case separately and if someone is really wronged, let it be corrected. But against those who say that, there's a hostile speech as much as you want. And then our hate speech manifests itself to us, for we keep these facts in mind. What is the point of hate speech? The whole point of the hate speech is to destroy your opponent as a person, and before that, no one is immune. Recently, the president of the government also answered a question in an interview when a journalist asked him about an SDS member, as if it were a matter of not being human at all. And the Prime Minister of the Government calmly answered without realizing that he was actually legitimizing the hate speech in his gravest form when you took away man's human dignity and value. That's the problem that opens up in this story. However, we do not do this to those who point out that heterogeneous things are necessary to deal with each case individually, but that it is therefore necessary to regulate this by means of a constitutional law which would also give the right basis, but rather by the opposite side. All the way to the end. We would like to point out that the conduct carried out by the current Internal Minister, Mrs Katarina Kresal, for all the reasons listed, as well as the many that we will present later in the debate is inappropriate, inadequate, threatening the system of public finances, which will leave less money to help those who are socially in need of less money for education, for health care, for kindergartens, for all the goods that people need and to which citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are certainly entitled and therefore we propose to the National Assembly that, after this interpretation has been completed, Mrs Katarina Kresal should be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The reply from Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, was received by letter from the President of the National Assembly on 10 March 2009. I give the floor first to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President, the National Assembly! The maturity of the State and its policies is demonstrated through consistent respect for the Constitution, the division of power, social equality and human dignity. Confidence in the decisions of the judiciary is at the heart of Western civilization. We must respect this decision, even though it is permissible to have different views on them. In the past, the subject of measuring various political orientations, legal experts, and the public expression has all too often fallen below the level of political and legal culture. I think that mature politics must respect legal norms and, as I said, respect for the dignity of every individual. It may seem that the opening of the issue has been a wrong decision at a time when we are facing an economic and social crisis. Absolutely not! Also with this step, the Government expresses the consistency that we will still need in the months ahead to resolve the financial, economic, social and, finally, the ethical crisis. This is a type of decision that puts society on solid foundations and thus offers a way out of uncertainty. The regulation of the status of deleted persons, after 18 years of this act, lays firm legal and ethical foundations for this future. We cannot only survive the crisis economically, but we must also come out of it much stronger, with an increased sense of solidarity and respect for human dignity, and this is also the essence of resolving our issue as deleted. The Minister shall, with her co-workers, do exactly what the Constitutional Court decision requires of her. Not anymore, not less, professionally and resourcefully, and without jeopardising the public financial position. The issue of compensation is thus warned by the vast majority of legal professionals, both foreshadowed and abused. If I understand the applicant correctly for this meeting today, there is a reason and there is a reason. This should be due to the fact that there was no understanding of the interpretation and adoption of the constitutional law. It was said that the late president of the Republic, Dr. Drnovski, and I both considered the possibility of constitutional law. That's right. For many years, at least as far as I'm concerned, I have worked hard to find solutions that would also allow for these kinds of decisions. However, I must say that in the end I have come to realize that such a solution would not be legally correct or just, so I have abandoned this search. The reason for this discussion is the issue of supplementary decisions deleted. The legal basis for such behaviour is the Constitutional Decision itself, and this decision is also being implemented by the Minister. The deletion shall not give rise to indemnity until the damage caused by it has been proven. This will be decided by the courts, not by the ministries, not by the Government and not by the National Assembly. Of the 30 lawsuits, 6 are legally binding, all are rejected, or if there is a fear of a complementary decision, 4,000 have already been issued - the plaintiffs are three. More than 60% of deleted are women and children. But if anyone thinks he has evidence of war criminals who are among them, he should initiate appropriate procedures. In short, a constitutional decision must be respected and respected. I personally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, I hope, also the vast majority in the National Assembly deserve the support of Minister Kresalova for her conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Katarina Kresal to explain the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. In the years following the Holocaust, Hannah Arendt wrote the famous work The Sources of Totalitarianism. In it, it seeps the society of hate speech, populism, and its dangers. The danger of dividing people into "ours and yours", traitors and patriots, of finding enemies. In such a vision, human rights are only transformed into an exclusive ideology. According to Arendt, the first and fundamental human right is to have rights at all. The story of deleted is a story of exclusion. It's a story about the seizure of rights. It is the story of the most massive violation of the Slovenian Constitution after independence. It's a story about dividing into ours and yours. It is a story of collective denial, political manipulation and denial of the rule of law; it is a story worth Franz Kafke and his novel Process. At first, he was silent and later waved with his hand and said it was speculators and aggressors. But the facts were slowly coming and going. Speculators and aggressors couldn't be named or named. More and more tragic stories of individuals and families have emerged in public, and they have been erased by human dignity. The opposition continued to say that the injustice was committed by more than one illiterate cleaner. In the meantime, the deletions have publicly condemned all international institutions in the field of human rights protection in both Europe and the United Nations. At home, however, the stumbling block became the Constitutional Court, which over and over again ruled that it was an illegal act. There can be no escape from history, facts and court decisions. That's why a part of politics has invented a new weapon that scares people. Indemnities. The same populism tactics were used six years ago. Minister Bohinc's interpretation spoke of amounts exceeding 800 billion tolars. It's no different today. The figures in the interpolation are even higher, the rumor is even more apocalyptic, only the currency has changed in the meantime. But there's something a lot of people don't want to see. Six years have passed since the first threat of compensation. Over four thousand decisions have already been issued by Minister Bohinc over five years ago - and what happened? Nothing! The number of compensations paid and legally paid remains zero euro. It is therefore rude and undignified that in times of crisis, when people's hardships and fears are real, the opposition to the backs of Slovenian workers and workers, students, unemployed, pensioners fight for political prestige. The last attempt by the opposition today to erase the problem of the deleted and to conceal its attitude towards the rule of law is a proposal for a constitutional law. This kind of work reflects a misunderstanding of the concept of modern democracy. Just remember the late Jörg Haider and his miniature tables with Slovenian inscriptions attached under large tables in German. It's an act of law. And that's "kill" constitutional decisions. Just as part of Austrian and Italian politics builds its own identity on denying the rights of the Slovenian minority, so part of Slovenian politics builds and substantiates its own political identity on the backs of the deleted. Professionally, legally, ethically and morally, things are clear. Resistance is only part of the policy, I stress policies. Interpellators want to create the impression that what I am doing is not only substantive, but also legal professionally unacceptable. But the truth is completely different. They have remained completely alone in their trials. Or is Professor Pirnat, Cerar, Ude, Sturm, Vedam-Lukičeva, Shelihova, Bavcon, Bulgarian, Teršek, President of the State Dr. Danilo Türk, all the current human rights guardians, Memorial of Hribar, Milena Zupančič, Zoran Predin, Igor Vidmar, Gregor Fon, Cyril Zląb and dozens of others - all wrong? No, they're not wrong. When we break the whole sheath of deceptions and half-truths, the interpolation reveals a clear picture. It is an interpretation against common sense, against facts, the Slovenian Constitution, equality before law and human decency. It's about the two concepts, the conflict of law and harsh politics. I'm here today because I'm defending the rule of law for everyone and everyone. A legal state that does not stop at a speech of beauty, or a speech at celebrations that is not in the "fun" function of complicated patriotism, which is not just a letter on paper. I am defending the rule of law, where there is power of argument, not an argument of power, and a rule of law that serves specific people. And especially in the coming time, it will be crucial that the rule of law works to protect the social and economic weak as well. The injustices that befit others are not to be shaken, not only because of them, but also because of us. What happens if not, the priest who survived the German concentration camp wrote down meaningfully. His words were, "First they came for a neighbor, a communist. I didn't say anything. I didn't like Communists too much. A few months later, they came for Jude's neighbor, and I was quiet. The Jews have never been overly loving to me. Well, in a year they came for me. But then there was no one else who could say anything else, even if I wanted to." As a second-generation politician who studied at the law school right at the time of the creation of the Slovenian state, I have this advantage not to be haunted by ghosts and skeletons from the past. The independence of Slovenia was not only about independence, it was also about human rights, equality, dignity, freedom of speech and thought, the deterrence of nationalism and heroic myths. Do you not realize that your talk is the same as the one that opens up those wounds from the end of World War II that still divide Slovenia into two parts today? The method you condemn in one case, here you abuse yourself on the backs of eraseds, I reject that. Just like I completely reject all the readings from the interpolation. And I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to join me in this. Not because of me as a minister or because of this government, but because we have the opportunity to close one of the traumas to the Slovenian people for the past, present and future generations. To show respect for the Slovenian Constitution, for the Slovenian state and for all the people who were wronged in its creation. If we are able to close this chapter of Slovenian history as a mature country, people as politicians will be able to believe that we can also solve other traumas that divide the Slovenian people, not abuse them for narrow party goals. Respected opposition, you're putting in interpellations, you're proposing parliamentary investigations, and we could easily get all the answers on the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and Justice or come to the Ministry, we're completely open, we're not hiding anything. No, but in your accusations, you've "pulled" and the Ministry of the Interior's professional services, all the public servants who work in these professional services. By the way, none of them were assigned to this place during my term of office. I'm not afraid to face the arguments that are on my side. The facts about each individual reading from the interpretation will be detailed and with arguments will be rejected later in the debate. But I will not go into the field of populism and intolerance of sharing the people of Slovenia in these difficult economic times and the shameless launch of lies and half-truths. I know I'm going to hear accusations here today, not just about the aggressors, about the speculators, about the transition left, but also about the low-level talk about my private life, about my partner, about the lawyers. You will certainly not stop against the abuse of the dead great men, Dr. Janez Drnovska. I will be forced to listen to all of this today, and I will, because it is my duty, because it is also part of democracy. But I believe in the wisdom and reasonableness of the people who will listen to you today, and I hope they will also hear you; they will hear your words, which will reflect your values and your culture. That is why today's interpretation is a mirror in the first instance of the political option it is investing, and as such it will remain for the history of Slovenian politics and parliamentary democracy. Old wisdom says, "Most people can cheat for a short time, some people can be deceived all the time, but you can't lie to all people all the time. "He who sows the wind reaps the storm." Before this Parliament, I have sworn to respect the constitutional order of Slovenia and to act for its well-being. I know I'm doing the right thing. I know the government and the great team at the Ministry of the Interior support me. With all the absurdity of the interpolation charges, I have no choice but to conclude with Martin Luther's words to the judges when he was accused of heresy: "Here I stand, otherwise I cannot. Before you judge me, face your conscience." Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u8	The Honorable President. The Honourable President of the Government. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group of Interpellations on the Work and Responsibility of Minister Katarina Kresal will not support, nor will it decide on its discharge. Interpellation follows on the most fragmented foundations, which is possible, because none of the above-mentioned points of the indictment hold serious judgment, the evidence is drawn to the hair, false arguments, and the explanation is the unworthy largest opposition party who has behaved before a bad year with the Presidency of the European Union. This interpolation is proof that some have no boundaries, is an attack on the rule of law and its constitutional arrangements. If the practice of developing democratic standards in our country suffers at the expense of ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and, of course, the former authority is particularly shining under the leadership of Mr Janez Janša, the coordinated attack on the Minister who is implementing the Constitutional Court decision is the full bottom of a policy that should never again enjoy public support unless we want to finally bury the rule of law and the dream of democratic life in it. Even though we are reluctant to argue with the proposers, it is not possible to pass on the fact that ministers are reading in point 1 - inadequate enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision, even though the work is carried out exactly as the decision requires and decisions are issued individually and individually. The appearance of the ignorance of the referendum on technical law does not have a basis, since in her work the Minister is in fact relying solely on the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, the referendum mentioned by the applicants does not bind it with anything. Inequity before the law, even worse, inequity over constitutional and human rights is caused by all those who object to correcting the injustices erased, for which the unequal application of the Aliens Act has caused some more than 25,000 people, including 5,000 children and more than 10,000 women, to find themselves in an inhuman situation. In this they found themselves without fundamental and constitutional human rights. Proposers are not ashamed of the ministers' intention to correct this injustice. He corrects this injustice because this injustice was caused by the conduct of the State. The decisions they receive are returned to their permanent residence so that they can then gradually, only forward, regain and exercise human rights. It is particularly inconceivable that the Minister is endangering public finances by her conduct. This is an invention that can undoubtedly awaken support for those who are struggling to live because they know that they are lying, because the Constitutional Court decision does not refer to compensation in a single sentence, nor does the Minister deal with it. In doing so, the Slovenian public is also showered with astronomical figures and amounts concerning the amount of compensation. Of course, it is fiction, which may fall upon the fertile soil of those who are poor and need help. In doing so, however, there will be more than opposition and apparent fear of possible reparation by the State of damage. The problem is that the applicants would not give compensation to those who do not like it, and here is the dirtier their views. If such a principle is applied, it may become unlawful to delete the practice and the harmful consequences of irreparable if the decisions of the Constitutional Court do not necessarily have to be respected. What you're doing is dangerous for everyone who disagrees with you and you don't like it, like for all those who wouldn't applaud you for any reason. Good-bye, legal certainty in that case! From here to deleting anyone you don't like is just another step if you ever get in power again, and that's exactly what we need to worry about. Your Honor! Even in our Group of Members, we know that there are many poor, poorly paid workers in the country, unemployed people, that there is a crisis and they are difficult economic conditions, but this cannot be an excuse not to correct the injustices that have been erased. Among them were people who, because of the illegal removal from the list of permanent residents all these years lived on the brink, without social and other rights, many were suppressed into illegal and total poverty, in sickness, depending on the help of friends and acquaintances, some died in misery, some were killed because they sought refuge in places where the war was fought. It is therefore last time for the matter to be settled in the manner required by the decision of the Constitutional Court. This responsible action of the Minister is being attacked as a dispute, and in fact it deserves a medal. She is the first to choose to respect the constitutional order without fear. What this means in a political sense, for example, in elections - it does not matter, it is important that the right is exercised and the constitutional decision is realized. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that citizens and citizens will nevertheless realize that, with respect for this decision of the Constitutional Court, there is a road of effectiveness for all the following, with which anyone would try to protect his constitutional rights. If we don't fix the injustice to the erased, we don't know why anyone else should. If we are to defend and guarantee constitutional rights for all others, there is no reason to deny them to those who have been erased. The same applies to compensation. For the time being, no one knows, so the fantasy of this is a malicious structure that serves the debilitating political objectives of some opposition parties who have already been invaded by the electorate, but we believe that the matter can be avenged later. Non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court is also found in other countries. The Minister's intervention, which seeks to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, is probably a disgrace to the mutiny of that perverted policy that the Group condemns, our Group of Members does not exist, in any case does not accept and support even less. This interpellation is, in a procedural sense, possible, and according to the content of our firm conviction, it is also based on a lack of soundness of mind. This interpolation is an open attack on the rule of law; this interpolation, in our view, is an attack on constitutional regulation; this interpolation is a disgrace to this opposition and, consequently, to our country. The Minister's decision to implement the Constitutional Court's decision to welcome her and her team's efforts. For the reasons stated above, we will not support such things, which they call interpolation in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the Council of Ministers! Today is April 1st, ladies and gentlemen, and I will not escape how many lies written in the interpolation and how many untruths there are in the answer. This is not so important, but it is true that the written word remains in writing and it would be right to speak very seriously today, because we know that no soup is as hot as it is cooked and that nothing will happen to our minister after today. The opportunity is also given to tell us what the distinguished minister has not done and what she should have done. Of course, everything begins with erased and this erasure of persons who have actually been in some context of history also an aggressor over Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we cannot agree that General Aksentijevic, who spoke openly against Slovenia and actually participated in the aggression against Slovenia, could be deleted. We cannot agree with the fact that we are correcting injustices to those who have been erased now and this moment when we have not taken care of the victims who have fallen for the freedom of Slovenia; and we cannot agree that this is a priority if we have in Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, some laws that are inconsistent with the Constitution, and this government is of no interest to us. We even work by these laws. The Constitutional Court works every day, the Constitutional Court writes constitutional decisions every day; and it is not right that we have legislation that is the subject of everyday life and is inconsistent with the law. Mondays are when the government should be here and answer these questions also for this area, which I am now referring to, but is not as perfect as today - this government, because today is very complete. The Prime Minister has already left, but I believe he hears things in the background. I would like to be so up-to-date when we point out mistakes, and we are so busy when a critical word runs by the Government on the first Monday of the month, or on the last Monday of the month, when Parliament meets and when Members have the opportunity to ask questions to the Government. Dear Minister, I listened to you today when there was a talk of lying, and you say, on the radio, you said, "I never lie, sometimes I shut things up on purpose." A few days ago, when there was a talk about the crisis, how we were going to solve it, you said the bull had to be grabbed by the horns. Brave statements, I agree with you, and therefore in the Slovenian National Party we would like you to act on an official duty and cease to remain silent about those matters you know about and, of course, to step on the fingers of corruption, illegality, clientism, at least in those cases that you know about. Today I am taking advantage of this opportunity and opportunity, and we are all given the opportunity to give you particular attention to some things. I believe that you will write them down, and I also believe that these irregularities will now be resolved, because many are waiting for things to be resolved in this context, so that foreigners will not be the first in line once they are given justice. Of course, we are a nation of servants, and only once can we take care of ourselves. If I can count on a few of these cases. I'd like to say that about the deleted ones. It is not to be taken into account that those who acted speculatively, who left when there was a very bag here, where they retreated, I don't know, disappeared and came back after a certain period and now demand justice. That's not working. We cannot demand that we give the right to the one who raised his hand above the Slovenes and the Slovenians and give him even his pensions. Dear President, could we guarantee a little patience? Sir, the ex-cop's a bit of a nuisance here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u11	Peace in the hall! Please, Mr. Friend, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Therefore, in this context, we cannot agree that the decisions would be written just because the Constitutional Court has so established. It is also illustrative to expect that there will be no compensation, that there will be no financial claims, because the judgments are already legally binding. The first verdict was already given to Alexander Todorovic. 17,000 euros, he says, is too small to sue Slovenia for asking for as much as 60,000 euros just for the loss of income because it was deprived of its right to work. So around deleted should be taken into the hands of a microscope and the case should be examined with precision. There are other cases that call for this. Dear Minister, how will you act in the event of economic crime, which is discussed by all Slovenia? I'm coming with Primorska, let's say I don't start with Bavčar, I'll start with Wolf. This family has taken away hundreds of people's right to work. Not to mention how many family companies have been associated with this food industry and will not have any income today. For this gentleman, with his family of years and years, acted speculatively by bringing all matters into the private portfolios of other companies, and today he says, "Yes, I see that I will have to withdraw." It's gonna be the only punishment for him. When we talk about the damage that Mr Bavcar has done, which took time to be in Istrabenz by the end of May, we are not interested either. Of course, we mustn't be interested, that's your man. Finally, he also participated in the war for Slovenia, which he donated to Croatia. It is difficult to explain the story of Slovenkam and Slovenes when I get your answer to the question: How can the Ministry of the Interior for a decade and pay some bills for water, rent and electricity to families? You didn't answer that - otherwise flat. But this is possible, you know, in Slovenia this is happening. There are families that the Ministry of the Interior pays them bills; you know what I'm talking about. [[The ad in the hall.]] It has a connection because illegality is an illegal act, and that is illegality - the use of public finances in this way is not permissible, honourable Member. [[Ad in the background.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u13	Please, peace in the hall! Mr. Friend, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u14	I would also like to say that, until we have done what is right, of course, everyone in our field, including the ministers, to which we are told by the public, and the Members, here I have several questions that we have addressed to your address: from the fact that the security of the Member or his family has been compromised, to the fact that we have covered such and other cases of economic crime, and also to the fact that the powers of your employees have been violated. And until action is taken here, we can't talk about good work. Of course, these are small things, where you can say it, because it doesn't matter, and we can forget it. But I would like you, Madam Secretary, to take another look at what we have written to you and take action. If you really grab the bull by the horns at least in these cases, you'll do a lot. Today we will also be able to hear about your personal affairs. I will not go down to this level, but I would like to say that deleted can be the subject of a resolution, but when Slovenia solves all the open problems it has in the area of crime, clientism, corruption, and these problems result in a very large amount of social instability today. This will be further pointed out by the unions, who will certainly come to the roads soon due to the loss of their patience. We probably won't be able to sell them the story of deleted, fair and constitutional court decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Dear ministers and others! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In response to the Minister's reply to the interpellation in the Slovenian People's Party, we respond to the opening remarks of the Minister from the Constitution and the constitutional provisions of the following. First: Point 8 of the said Constitutional Court decision is misinterpreted. Dictation itself does not mean that you simply have to issue decisions at the beginning and without a legal basis. "By an official duty" does not mean that you are not obliged to examine the actual situation and to deal individually with each case as provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act. In our country we have parliamentary democracy and three equivalent branches of power. The laws are passed by our constitution by the legislative branch of power, that is, Parliament, which has also adopted the Constitution and established the Constitutional Court. It is the jurisdiction of the Court to repeal parts of the laws which it considers to be inconsistent with the Constitution. Secondly: it requires that everyone regulates the status of citizenship or the status of a foreigner in the territory of the newly established State of Slovenia does not mean and is not related to the violation of human rights and, in our opinion, only attempts to mislead the public in citing them. In the process of establishing a new state, while we had to deal with an aggressor army, it was understandable that the state had to know who was a citizen and who was a foreigner. The State had to set the conditions and set a time limit for the regulation of the status, which is the only basis for the notification or registration of residence. Infringement of rights could be discussed in the event that, for example, someone with a status quo would be deprived of their residence and removed from the register. In our view, after so many years, it is really pointless to keep the matter warm again and again in this way. Finally, it is necessary to find a legal and even fairer solution, I stress most justly, for both sides: for the country and for the former citizens of the SFRJ. As has already been said in the debate, when mistakes occur, there are also truly sad stories. However, I must say that we Slovenians are really not as ugly as we might feel in this debate, because despite everything, despite the irregular status, it has been possible for citizens who for various reasons have not settled their status to live in Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that we would have resolved the situation long ago if all the loud advocates of these affected people took seriously and supported the only possible solution already proposed several times in previous mandates - to support the adoption of a constitutional law. This could have been resolved six years ago, immediately after the contested decision of the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian People's Party, we were of the same opinion back then and today. Only on the basis of the law, because of all intermediate events and illegal decisions, will we, by means of a constitutional law as a basis for regulating the status of all these persons, deal with the situation definitively and legally. True, among these people there are cases where some have really not been sufficiently skilled in the simple procedures for regulating certain statuses, and it is necessary to know that some have fallen into distress, were not speculative purposes, while some have been most likely speculative. Therefore, we believe that this should be handled individually. We cannot possibly accept the fact that the basic law for the implementation of the Constitution at that time laid down the conditions for the regulation of status for all, for citizens and for foreigners, since it was reconfirmed at the 2004 referendum by objecting to the law on enforcement of the 8th point. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote in favour of its resolution if the Minister insists on issuing decisions without a legal basis for the reasons set out in the proposal for interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Minister, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Today is April 1st, a day with a prominent name and address and also a message, and it is likely that for Slovenia it has started to be sad, but I am sure that it will end with a positive message. It's also sad because obviously this moment of opposition is the most important moment in all the problems we have and the top. I would not be surprised if we were dealing with interpretation in the field of economy, finance, social problems and elsewhere, because, of course, the Government is trying to do what is most important for citizens and citizens, but that we are currently dealing with the issue of law and the rule of law. Yesterday I read the interesting thought of the Hribar Memorial, which said that it was a suitable topic for someone who wants to work politics on some fundamentalist themes and assumptions and with a great deal of wickedness. That's it. Today we are witnessing a historical event in several ways, dealing with a case that occurred 17 years ago, at the very beginning of the Slovenian state. After the mass and damage suffered, it was certainly the greatest violation of human rights in Slovenia alone. Today's interpolation was directed by the opposition against the interior minister, who is merely implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, by which the so-called supplementary decisions should be recognizable to the permanent residence of all those who have been deprived of their illegal disappearance and who have remained continuously in Slovenia at that time. It is also, of course, the enforcement of a constitutional decision, the rule of law and the rule of law. Back in Christ at Savica, we told the Slovenians that we wanted to find a way to find her sons free will, faith and law. And if you're "just willing and putting the law," then you have to respect it -- not only when it suits us, but every day, over and over again. Unfortunately, only at the formal level can no one now recover years of uncertainty, suffering, social distress, broken laws and other problems caused by almost 26,000 people by sudden and silent mass extermination. The current opposition has advocated a constitutional law that should be dealt with on a case-by-case basis since the National Assembly began dealing with the problem of the deleted. Only in this way would they prevent the permanent residence for the return be recognised by the various speculators and people who participated in the aggression against Slovenia and should also allow for the restoration of this right only to those who have actively sought to regulate their status after their disappearance. I would expect, of course, that all these statements will also be followed by concrete names to inform certain names and people who have acted in aggression against Slovenia, and that every day I read more that the first Minister in Slovenia alone for defence, those who have committed aggression against Slovenia, even employed as one of the key contributors at the Ministry of Defence. Today the media is saying that these people are almost 200! As someone who, at the time of independence between the invaders and at the right end of Celovska, I ask you, at which end of Celovska, you were the ones who today saw this, that you did not see it. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that it is an offence, an illegal removal from the register of permanent residents, which has received a popular, even a purely correct name of 'delete', has happened to all those who have been affected by it. Whether someone has tried to regulate the status after the deletion is completely irrelevant in view of the content of the constitutional decision. All from A to Z, who lost their permanent residence because of the illegal disappearance, no doubt there was an injustice and must be recognised as being back; for all the time they can prove that they have stayed in Slovenia irrevocably and uninterruptedly. It is only fair when it is abstract when it does not take account of what anyone thought about Slovenian independence, whether someone was a criminal or an honest person, whether he was an officer of JLA or an uneducated enforcer, whether he loved or hated John Janša. If I quote the most persistent legal representative deleted, Matevža Krivica, "it is just as meaningless as whether it has been erased beautiful or ugly. All of them have been dealt with unlawfully by the State, and it is for all of them to be wronged and to be corrected and returned." Hypothetically, even a mass murderer could be deprived of permanent residence status in Slovenia only after we once convicted him - that is, from the conviction forward. Whoever disagrees with this, and obviously does not, understands whether he does not, or, worse, cannot, understand the principles of the rule of law. Opponents of the correction of injustices erased for many years, ever since the problem became known to the general public for the first time, have used various deceptions and manipulations that can be rejected in all order with factual accuracy. Let's try it, nice and easy. It is not true that it was already laid down in the basic constitutional charter at the time of the adoption and then in the Foreigners Act that all those who do not apply or acquire Slovenian citizenship will have to re-order the status of a foreigner. Not in one or the other, it's never about that, and it never says anything. It is not true that it was for those who applied for Slovenian citizenship, although they were entitled to it, mainly for speculators and professional members of the Aggressor Army. Today we know that it was mostly for women and children, to the greatest extent for those of the lower social strata and among them there were several hundred professional members of JLA - and I mentioned them, mentioned in the media also employed them. Many have tried to regulate their citizenship, but they have been rejected in official places because they lacked a document, although officials would be obliged to accept such, incomplete roles, and then they are hurt to call on them to bring the missing papers within a certain period of time. Others, too, could not apply for citizenship because they were on a journey because they were sick and for similar banal reasons, or whether they did not even know that they had to apply specifically for citizenship. Even if they conscientiously renounced the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship, this does not mean that someone had the right to withdraw their previous status - it is not citizenship, but permanent residence. Nor is it true that the infamous transfer of newly created foreigners from the so-called living record to the so-called dead record was based on the law on foreigners. This did not stipulate anything other than that those who would not acquire Slovenian citizenship would become foreigners after a certain period of time. And for those who were already foreigners in the former country, nothing had to be done to preserve the right of permanent residence in Slovenia. Undoubtedly, it was illegal to delete it because the power under the applicable legislation was to withdraw a permanent residence only for the reasons listed in the law, but not just by such means, without a decision or even without notice. That, of course, the interior ministry was well aware of the legal dilemmas in this marriage black hole, the official correspondence of the time available to all shows. It is not true that they have now been erased from their duty to regulate their new status. On the contrary! The country should place them in the records of foreigners with permanent residence in Slovenia, as it did with those who had already been foreigners in the SFRY. It is not true that the deleted were immediately invited to arrange a new status. It is true that one part of the administrative units, but not all of them, in the second half of 1992, said months after they were deleted, called for deleted ones to come to order their status, but a large part just so that they could destroy their previously valid personal documents. It was not until the end of 1992 that deleted persons were considered to have taken into account the previous period of permanent residence when re-establishing a permanent residence permit in Slovenia. Before that, it was assumed that the deleted had somehow illegally come to our country and must first obtain a temporary residence permit. Next, once again, it is not true that the issue of supplementary decisions is contrary to the decision of the majority of participants at the April 2004 referendum on the so-called technical law drawn up by the then Minister Bohinc. This law limited the beneficiaries of the re-entry of an illegally deleted permanent residence to those who, in the meantime, acquired a permanent residence, but not to their nationality, and was therefore also opposed to the rights of those who had been deleted. However, the Constitutional Court has made clear in its decision that it is also able to fulfil its will directly without specific law. And it is not true that the National Assembly has the right to overwhelm the Constitutional Court, just as it once did after the referendum on the electoral system. It's two different, uncomparable situations. In that case, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to adopt, within a reasonable time, a new electoral law expressing the will of the five Constitutional Judges the found referendum victory of the proposal to introduce the majority electoral system, unfortunately, only two years after the official outcome was announced, which, in other words, spoke of the rejection of the proposed majority system, as it received only 44% of the votes cast. In June this decision of the Constitutional Court was politically highly controversial, and all Slovenian policy has been tormented for a year and a half with the question of how to implement it. Only after the Bajuk government brought the country to the brink of political crisis with the view that Slovenia does not even have a valid electoral law did the then Slovenian People's Party allow for a change of constitution, which in the Constitution provided for a proportionate system and, thanks to it, ended the political crisis. The appropriateness of this decision of the National Assembly was then confirmed by the Venice Commission, which the Bajuk government itself submitted to it. No one can claim that there is anything unconstitutional in the provision of a proportional electoral system. It is, however, a mass violation of human rights, which has been found by the Constitutional Court twice and in various compositions, as well as by a number of European institutions, including the European Commissioner for Human Rights. The Constitutional Law, which would try to outplay the Constitutional Court, would be nothing more than a violation of human rights. According to some former Constitutional Judges, the Constitutional Court would treat even such a constitutional law with all its right and end up declaring it unconstitutional. Let me conclude by mentioning the frequent omens that come from the forms of the current opposition at the expense of those who sincerely try to correct the wrongs done to those who have been erased. This observation says that the disloyal foreigners who once rejected the generously offered Slovenian citizenship are now correcting the injustices, while the multitudes of honest citizens are still waiting for their right; czech, in deleted haste, as if the problem had been resolved 17 years after its creation and 10 years after the first decision of the Constitutional Court, a case of unusual haste, and our people would still be waiting for these rights. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but this is a political abuse of the grips, fates and prejudices of ordinary people. The unresolved problem of one is not and there is no argument for not solving another's problem. There are human rights in this country, and we are proud of it, and foreigners are also receiving it. Otherwise, a large proportion of the deleted have already acquired citizenship and are, by all criteria, our people. Who and by what criteria will draw up a series of corrected injustices. I personally assess that this content is being considered for a competition between Slovenian conservative parties, which will be more popular to the public, regardless of the price that will have to be paid by the injured. However, all of us are injured, wiped out, indelible, the whole country, and above all the rule of law and human rights. The non-reality in this debate has once again become a legitimate argument. Dear colleague Mr Grims refers in his presentation to the expert opinion of Dr Tonet Jerovska. He overlooked, but perhaps he forgot to say that Dr. Jerovšek had changed his mind. This is proved by the words on Radio Slovenia on 7 March this year, when he said, quote: "We are in the course of time and, in view of a different, more extensive interpretation of this provision, we could say that it would be possible to issue supplementary decisions on this subject with regulated status." This statement puts in a strange light one of the fundamental features of the interpelling proponents. And that. If Minister Katarina Kresal's motive were to erase the election vote for the LDS, then like her predecessor, she would have put the matter in a drawer. Politics has struggled with this issue for many years, but there has been no determination, no courage, even because of low political points, to do what needs to be done. In this way, I would certainly have gained more sympathy from the public than by defending the decision of the Constitutional Court. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must not be speculated because this means the end of the rule of law. We have to respect them when we don't like them. Today we are here to correct the injustice done to the deleted by rejecting the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior and by allowing for the smooth issuance of supplementary decisions as part of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Today our country of law is under trial. Today's not about the story of eraseds. It's the story of all the victims, including II. World war on all sides is the story of you, of us, of you and of me, today and tomorrow. We therefore have no doubt in the LDS that the day will end better than it began. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, mainly because of the current opposition, has been allowing for almost 17 years a state that ignores several indisputably clear constitutional provisions, ignores the principles of the rule of law and its own constitution, does not recognise the illegality and injustices caused by the State to some 25,000 citizens of the former republic of Yugoslavia living in Slovenia. When she took away their residence permit and the status of a foreigner in Slovenia, without informing them, without public notice or notice, and without any individual decision to withdraw the status, destroyed the documents in force and prevented them from exercising their fundamental human rights, and sent them on their way to obtaining the status of a foreigner with a permanent residence that they had already had in the previous common country and was deprived of it by unilateral acts of authority without their knowledge, and again many were unable to enforce it because of the war conditions in their country of origin. Dr. Dragica Vedam Lukič, former President of the Constitutional Court, said about this, quote: "The deletion was not complete. The state acted systematically." And that is the sad essence of this problem. This means that the State acted when it is aware of what it is doing, aware of the illegality of its conduct and the consequences that these practices will have for the situation and rights of some, that is, deleted. When self-sustaining legislation was adopted, the government in the congregation at that time even ensured that its content would not in any way aggravate the situation of these people in order to preserve the status they had and that they would choose for themselves. Therefore, the defence of the illegal conduct of the then authorities is still the most obvious case for the most obvious defence of unconstitutional and illegality; the most obvious example of ignoring the rule of law, the Constitution, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and human rights; the case of defending individuals who, at the time in the highest positions of the executive and administrative authorities, know that they are acting unlawfully, have seized the civil rights of approximately. Twenty-five thousand inhabitants of a new democratic state. But the blame of these people is so great that all means are used to defend them against the responsibility for illegal acts today, unfortunately also to mislead people, to accuse victims, to fabricate facts, to shed light on legal issues. And now that, at least in the ruling coalition, the knowledge and determination to eliminate these illegalities are finally matured, some individuals from the opposition, instead of allowing at least silently the correction of the injustices and meeting the fact that it does not require the identification of the political responsibility of those who have wronged them and all the years have prevented their recovery and correction of the injustices, this small group opposes the legitimate conduct of the Minister of the Interior by all means. And more, now these same people, instead of allowing the Government and the competent ministry to carry out their tasks in peace and care, also make it impossible for the Ministry to perform its constitutional tasks by means of an interpellation. I am pleased that the Minister has made it clear that they will not succeed. Neither does the fact that while they are making normal work impossible, they cry out that instead of devoting themselves to the important tasks of the financial and economic crisis, they are wasting time with the deleted. Yeah. It is true that instead of being able to carry out its tasks, it must deal with the senseless demands of the opposition, which repeatedly puts the same issues on the agenda. Once with a request for a reply from the Government on deleted, the second time with a request for a debate on the statements made by Ambassador Wygle in Belgrade, the third time today with an interpretation, the fourth time with an investigative commission, the fifth time with a constitutional law. And instead of allowing the Government to carry out its tasks and to give this National Assembly a thorough attention to the tasks that await us in the economic and financial sphere, the opposition to the challenge and prevent this work from continuing with the same repetition of nonsense and false claims. Unfortunately, this is without the particular hope that the opposition may hear the facts at least this time. It is therefore right to draw attention to some facts. Firstly, the opposition points out to the Minister that it is inappropriate to approach the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, which states that the Ministry must have persons who were 26 years old. 2. 1992 deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, hereby issuing supplementary decisions establishing their permanent residence from 26. 2. 1992 onward. Clearly anyone who understands the Slovenian word is completely understandable. And only what it says the Ministry does. Individually from the case to the case after a careful assessment of the facts, persons who have already acquired the status of a citizen or a foreigner with permanent residence under the applicable law will be entitled to the status of a permanent resident, but only in the time after 26. 2. 1992, allowing for permanent residence from that date on as well. As a result, from the date of the regulation of this status, the status of permanent residence will be settled retroactively from 26. 2. 1992. Individually without other rights, it takes into account the fact that they have lived in Slovenia and that no action or conduct has been demonstrated by an appropriate decision that would not enable them to acquire citizenship or alien status, since all of these issues have already been verified in the regulation of this status. It is therefore entirely fictitious today to say that additional decisions and status will be given to those who do not meet the conditions and who are of no value to a permanent residence even since 26. 2. 1992 onward. Even more so, it is unrealistic to say that these complementary decisions will create a basis for compensation actions against the State. Another fabricated claim by the opposition is that the Ministry ignores the outcome of the referendum on the technical law deleted. This referendum decided, by a large majority, that no technical law was necessary. However, it was not possible to decide whether to ensure the rights of deleted persons until the return of their permanent residence at the referendum, since this was already a valid decision of the Constitutional Court at the time of the referendum. I also hope that the interpellationers know that the judgments of the courts and, in particular, the judgments of the Constitutional Court in the rule of law must be carried out rather than that their validity should be called for by a referendum. This would not be the rule of law. Therefore, the issue of supplementary decisions does not ignore the decision taken in relation to the Technical Law on deleted. The third non-true claim by the applicants states that by issuing supplementary decisions it creates inequality before the law. This is supposed to be due to the fact that part of the deleted will receive a supplementary decision on permanent residence and, for part, the conditions for obtaining permanent residence will be provided for by a special law. Such a solution actually creates equality, not distinction. Whoever has already obtained foreign status or citizenship has submitted to an individual assessment of compliance with the difficult conditions for obtaining this status. Therefore, it is not necessary to re-examine these conditions. However, for those who are to be returned to their permanent residence status, a law is required to determine the conditions of loyalty and permanent residence that enable them to do so. For this reason, the fulfilment of conditions has already been achieved for some, and some will be redefined. And everyone will be in the same position. All will only be found to be unlawfully deleted by 26 February 1992 and the right to permanent residence for a certain period. Fourth grade. The false statement and the accusation from the interpolation is that by issuing decisions deleted, the public finances system is being jeopardised. First of all, let me point out that this is not only not true, but that the supplementary decisions do not have any consequences in the right to compensation. When approximately 4,000 supplementary decisions were issued almost five years ago, only three applications were submitted and no one has yet been legally resolved. Otherwise, 30 applications have been filed together so far. There is no legal compensation in any of them. In 6 cases, applications are rejected and pending. The only compensation so far is not related to the supplementary decision, but is also not legally binding. On the basis of this, it is not possible to correctly assess future damages, since in each particular case, the issues of obsolescence, the existence of injury, the causal link between the act of deletion and the damage, the activity deleted in order to remedy the damage, and other relevant facts will be raised. And secondly, if it's possible damage, you have to ask yourself why it came from. It was caused by the illegal conduct caused by the authorities in 1992. Is it possible, in Article 26 of the Constitution, for them to be completely deprived of the right to seek compensation? All the lawyers so far said no. And who's to blame if the damage is high? All those who have so far prevented the removal of the illegal erasure from being carried out decades ago and no harm at all could be said. On all these issues, I believe, therefore, the most correct position of the Government, which at this time foresees that the eligibility of compensation should first be assessed in the relevant proceedings before the courts if such procedures are to be, as all the real conditions need to be seen in order to assess the need and the level of the possible lump sum. However, it is certain that judicial proceedings that are ongoing or that may be submitted will not be completed in the short term. Therefore, it is a clear intention to continue to maintain the illegal situation and violations of the rule of law to address the threat posed by the public financial system. What is the legal culture and how credible are the proponents in their arguments? Let me give you a few examples. On page 2, for example, they claim that the use of the concept of deleted abuse is silent that the term deleted was first used by the Constitutional Court in the 1999 decision, because they were indeed deleted from the permanent residence register. So, the interpelling motions to the Constitutional Court are alleging abuse. This is the legal culture of the applicants. At least by the President of the Government, the appeal of the motioners to the opinion of the late Drnovsk and the current Prime Minister was unquestionably clear today. The Constitutional Law could have been the solution if the current opposition were prepared for a content that was in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Because she never was, there was never a chance to talk about it. And that's what President Pahor made clear today. A large number of false designs, which could really only be invented by the most perverse proponents, is a claim on page 6 that by issuing complementary decisions the left-wing voters are now seeking to obtain, after a new particularly LDS. Voters can only be citizens and no one is granted citizenship by supplementary decisions. Thousands of times, and thousands of times, the interpellation candidates will repeat their lies. For the independence of Slovenia, it is not only the signatories to the interpolation that are proud. We have contributed to it, and we are proud of it. However, we would like Slovenia's independence not to be burdened by illegal acts and injustices, by a grave violation of human rights and the rule of law of the country of Slovenia. The concealment of these facts 18 years after the independence of the defenders of such a course could be avenged in the same way as the long-standing concealment of illegal acts after World War II is being avenged today. Looks like we don't really know anything from history. As the interpellation's proponents represent the Constitution and the role of the Constitutional Court, the wording on page 9 states that the Constitutional Court should quote: "misconstitution of Article 82 of the Aliens Act is incorrect." The 23 signatories to the interpolation therefore judge the correctness of the constitutional decision. The same is true of the impeccable and offensive wording on page 10 that the Constitutional Court "ordered" to be deleted. This, in my opinion, is a disgrace to the rule of law. Also in the request for interpretation, the applicants state that residents who did not require Slovenian citizenship have been informed that they must acquire foreign status within two months. I would really like to be finally confirmed by these facts, that we are being called upon to regulate the status, that we are being shown and informed of the messages that have been reported in the media to show us the decisions whose contents are deleted. If there is no such evidence, I will continue to claim that these statements are false and that the deleted for their position were generally found when they went to regulate their status and their existing existing documents were destroyed. Such cases of distortion of facts and deceptions are full text of interpretation and cannot all be mentioned. But we can confirm that interpellation is a legal and political construct. That it is a disgrace for the rule of law to care little about human rights violations by erasure 26. 2. 1992 and that, unfortunately, the signatories prove with it that they are not capable of admitting mistakes and correcting injustices. We therefore oppose interpretation in the Group of Social Democrats and we will vote against the proposal for the discharge of Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I have to say this for the introduction. I just read the news that the Prime Minister bought the latest Mercedes for $550,000. I'm talking about Borut Pahor. Of course it's april. Just as I would have listened to the aprils on the part of some of my forerunners, I don't think so. Let's go to the position of the SDS Group. The interpretation that we have submitted has a basis, or is based on, four indications: inadequate enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision, ignoring the outcome of the referendums, creating inequalities before the law and jeopardising the public finances system. However, before I explain our position on all these perceptions, let me go back a little bit to history with some information that has not yet been published or at least not heard in this House. I myself worked or served in the Ministry of the Interior and had the opportunity and opportunity to monitor some of the data as well. Let me remind you that legislation was born in a time of independence. This was the time when there was no one to ask, when there were no samples, when there were no conventions and much more in this area. The Slovenian model for regulating the status of other citizens has been thoroughly examined by the Council of Europe and proposed as a model for the use of some other countries. Let's say the Baltic States. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva in 1995 addressed the human rights situation in this area in Slovenia. This was the so-called introductory or first report. The Slovenian delegation was led by Mrs Alenka Shelih. Ten years later, however, I led the Slovenian delegation there alone and I know how these procedures are going. The delegation received 150 questions. These are not questions that need to be answered in advance for two or three months, but it is time to answer 24 hours or less. So we're talking about 150 questions. The most important issues addressed there were also issues concerning the regulation of the status of citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia. A number of questions were raised by a member of the commission Vojin Dimitrievich, a Serb by nationality from Belgrade and a professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. His questions concerned in particular why the status of national minorities was not recognised by Serbs and Croats. I also received this question in 2005 as head of the Slovenian delegation. And no question was raised by the said gentleman on the subject of so-called deleted. So in 1995 this question did not exist for him either. When, then, did this problem that we are talking about today arise? Look, the first thing to say is that in 1996 and 1997, Mrs Neva Miklavčič Predan appears, - we are talking about, of course, the Helsinki Monitor - which is starting to talk a lot about this problem. Her first numbers are 300,000. By the way, the expression erased appeared at the time, not as it was said before me. Following interventions, in particular interventions by the Ministry of Internal Affairs responsible, this figure has decreased to 150 000. After further discussions and evidence, the number fell to 80,000. And finally, in 1996, she landed at 30,000. So 6 times less. Who's Mrs. Neva Miklavčič Prirdan? This is the person who, in the Vič Holmec affair, insisted that war crimes had taken place on Holmec. This is the person who internationalized this problem abroad. This is the person who peacefully defended Mr Boris Schuštar's legally proven crimes and defended him under the cover of the Helsinki Monitor. So, we're talking about this person. Despite the fact that the prosecution in Slovenj Gradz investigated the events at Holmac, she still claimed that there were war crimes. These issues intensified in 2002. Our Peace Institute has organized a round table on this subject. At that time, between 1997 and 2002, there was not much talk, at least not in the media space. On this round table also appeared Mrs Neva Miklavčič Lodan and Mr Matevž Krivic, who was also moderator. Matevž Krivic and Aleksandar Todorovic organized during the same period a resounding broadcast on the Ptuj radio, which was broadcast by all Slovenian local radio stations. There was a remarkable reverberation of Trenja - what these shows were like, we know - and there were many, many acts. In all the media, the facts have been greatly mutilated. Numbers were inflatable, terms deleted, ethnic cleansing, discrimination, discriminatory legislation, legal shame and so on were used. The only person who performed as normal in that show was the retired Slavka Fatak, who was quite lonely in those performances. The Ministry of the Interior’s leadership did not respond to media invitations. In fact, it must be said that the problem of the so-called deleted has not escalated in the media until then. Of course, we are similarly witnessing today to some media creation of virtual space and media preparation for today's event in this Parliament. In fact, a remarkable statement by hundreds of people is being prepared. The former president of the Republic has called. The current President of the Republic also made a statement, although the Minister was expected to be deleted and worshiped before the entry into the National Assembly. Of course, who are these people who create this media space? That could have been a week earlier. Why all this was published in the media last night and today, it is clear - to prepare the Slovenians for the evening vote. Who are the signatories? I know about half of these people. I also know myself personally, I don't know the other half, and none of them have any money issues. I'd say they're more or less into aristocrats. More or less responded at that time in 1992 and 1993 to the Slovenian Spring Party, the institution of self-reliance. But the legal basis that needs to be explained simply for people to understand it is like this. Until independence in Slovenia there were Permanent Population Registers for citizens of the SFRJ with residence in the Republic of Slovenia and after the independence of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and in a separate register for foreigners. So where did the word delete, then, deleted? It's a deliberate invention. At that time, legislation nowhere and no one was forced to accept Slovenian citizenship. It also allowed foreigners to reside in the Republic of Slovenia. It was a decision to make. You just had to make up your mind. Many didn't. The problem, of course, is that the vast majority of their status did not want to settle. But there is no denying that there are individuals among them who could not. So there's an evidence of deletion and there's a clear indication that we should have it back then. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u23	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u24	that they should then issue decisions to these people, so-called deleted, that they were allegedly deleted. [[...]] In this regard, it must be said that the legislation at the time did not require evidence from individuals to prove where they were registered and if they actually reside there. Without any evidence, you've been registered. I remember the case myself that we had about 100 people reported at Celje Railway Station. Thus, in fact, the vast majority of these people did not exist in Slovenia at all. There was a lot of talk about not being informed that they were driven out of the window, that they didn't know what was going on, and that's why I'm going to take some facts. First time. Over 200,000 people knew, and the status was settled. No one can deny that fact. I will continue to quote some unpublished statements, at least in this House unheard, or otherwise publicly published in 2003 in the Journal of the Window of Administration. Mrs Irma Deželak of Idria said at the time: "We have worked extremely hard and introduced people to Slovenian legislation on the Idrija Administrative Unit. We invited them to arrange their status. I remember a lot of times when the referees, with great patience, endured the high performances of some, would decide to settle their status in the Republic of Slovenia when they themselves wanted to. With an increased number of applications, we also organised the possibility of submitting applications at the Cerkno Regional Office and extended the official hours. With full responsibility, I say that on our administrative unit, as civil servants, we have shown these people, who suddenly found themselves as foreigners in the country in 1991, a lot of understanding, compassion and respect, and helped them with all their professional and professional powers. It's not our fault, it's not our fault, it's our shame, it's not our fault, it's our fault, it's not our fault, it's our fault, it's not our fault, it's our fault, it's not our fault, it's our fault. Ms. Marta Lorber, Šmarje at Jelšah: "The customer's regret has been to the workers we work on in these units, not to the customers. We accepted all the applications so that no one who wanted to play the part remained at the door. All claims about workers in the internal affairs departments are made up. Let them state specific cases if they have them." Another quote from Mr Miha Novak from Kamnik: "The doors of our administrative unit were open to everyone. True, some refused to step on the door or to step on it, but only to knock on it. Those people are talking loud today that we've locked their doors." The late Matjaž Majc, the Administrative Unit of Celje, wrote: "I am truly sorry those who had to wait so long and only now, in 2003, when we are practically in Europe, have found that it would be good to have their status regulated. Where have they been so far?" Just a few more facts. At the end of 1991 and at the beginning of 1992 additional places for depositing were also opened in Beethoven 3 in Ljubljana. There was the seat of the then Administrative and Home Affairs Service and the Constitutional Court was opposite. On the street in front of Beethoven 3 a large number of people gathered to regulate their status. Slavko Fatelak, then president of this service, called the secretary of the Constitutional Court and told him that the Constitutional Judge, Mr Krivica, was very upset by the crowd on the street and could not work. So, to a large extent, it was speculators. I would point out, however, that we do not exclude those who have actually been wronged. Let us take a look at Mr Todorovic's statement from that time: "I did not ask for Slovenian citizenship for principle reasons because it seemed non-civilisational to me." Ladies and gentlemen, it was non-civilisational to ask for Slovenian citizenship for this gentleman. Aren't we talking about a gentleman who got 17,000 euros? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u25	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u26	EUR 17,000. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u27	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u28	Please, if you don't mind, because I'm not you either. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u29	It's a presentation of positions, please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u30	17,000 Euros awarded with interest 54. It is true that the decision is not legally binding, but it requires three times more. We can also understand this statement by Diana Privšek: "I have recently been called by someone who still has no regulated status. He asked me if I knew at the time it would end this way and if I hadn't done the same in his place. Isn't that calculation? He also invited me to a picnic, which he's going to throw when he gets his compensation." Let me quote Andre Šter. Andrej Šter is not who you are, but he was a member of this National Assembly. He was Head of the Management Unit in Kranj and Minister of the Interior. He says: "The Republic of Slovenia has nothing to read. We have no bad news. Anyone who tries something like that would risk unpleasant encounters with people on the street. This would also show that the administrative units carried out ethnic cleansing and were working illegally. That's not true. These people don't deserve it." There was something else about the documents, their alleged destruction, and so on. I can say very responsiblely that you are manipulating, lying, or having first april. I don't know what it is. There has never been in the Republic of Slovenia, and at least so far there is nowhere in any process and in practice, as usual, or whatever you want the documents to be destroyed in the way they appear in the public. You can see in public the documents with the inscription "destroyed", "destroyed", "rase". In Slovenia, all documents - and those who have sought travel documents, ID cards or anything else - are destroyed in such a way that they pierce, are, and are today. And in the media, we're showing destroyed, destroyed, an erased, so manipulated. In 2003 Slavko Fatak also wrote this: "Slovenia will indeed become more and more present to others. We are recognized, social, passports are highly valid. Soon we will be a member of the EU and NATO. There is no comparison with the former SFRJ. So they are looking for benefits that are not expected elsewhere. If we ignore the professional aspects now, we risk going on a journey without a return." Ladies and gentlemen, it's not easy for me to talk about these things here. It's not easy for me. Not only because of all the people who conducted these procedures in administrative units but also because of the veterans of the war on Slovenia who risked their lives, bled and even died during that period of independence. So, the event is not about the war on Slovenia, it didn't start in 1991, but it started six years earlier with protests you don't remember. I am sorry that the loudest ones, the loudest ones, are referring to the law, the rule of law and everything else that left the sandstone at the time, where they were making crumbs, while the others, with weapons, walked in Slovenia. It's not easy for me to talk during a referendum. Of course, it would be much better to talk about that today's interpolation would not be here if the minister saw and stopped doing what we are witnessing. So let's go back to the points of content of interpolation. That was an introduction. In the LDS pre-election programme, there is no direct record of the issue of decisions so-called deleted, you write less about damages. That is why we find much beauty in respecting the rule of law. Simple people have certainly explained that judicial procedures will be particularly effective and shorter. And that's why the time of approval brought us what? He's brought us big changes. Changes in practice, in particular in the judicial field, also in the legal and judicial field. Under the leadership of Mrs Kresalov's party, you have begun to issue decisions to the deleted. The betting judges wrote their first judgment on compensation. Lawyers will set their own legal tariffs. Last Friday, however, Minister Zalar dropped the number of notaries from 125 to 98. Is there any better evidence of what I said Friday here to privilege the bar? I will not talk about the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision. We know her more or less. I do not even want to raise a problem with the Constitutional Court's decision, which you claim to be the most egregious, unmistakable and that its decisions are only and only enforced. I'd rather read what the lawyers said. I'm not going to refer to Dr. Jerovsk, because many of you, at the time of your colleague Grims' performance, have just been competing with your heads, but I'm going to make it easy for me to question decision 8 through Dr. Cerar's statements. I hope we listen. This was recorded in Mag magazine on 28.1.2004: "Critique of the April Decision on deleted. What's his main problem? Answer. Mostly unfortunate 8th point. It states that decisions should be made automatically to the category of persons who have obtained permanent residence status since 1992. We have been perfectly united by the experts in the field of constitutional and administrative law, that this cannot be done without law, because it would not be consistent with our Constitution and not with the dominant practice of European tradition. It is unusual for the Constitutional Court to establish a method of enforcement by generally committing the administration to the issuance of thousands of decisions. Such a nature can only be generalized by a legal act because the Constitution states that the administrative authorities may issue decisions only on the basis of a legal provision." Next. How do you feel about the December judgment of the Constitutional Judges? Mr Cerar is critical as follows: "Even if the law fell at the referendum, only the 8th point still applies, at which administrative authorities must issue decisions directly. This is not what the judges wrote in April. We have examined the experts, proposed that the Constitutional Court's decision be implemented in accordance with the Constitution. It's over the law. Then, in December, the court explicitly stated that this was not necessary at all. As it is said, contrary to the Constitution, many administrative authorities are ordered to issue decisions without a legal basis and on top of that with retroactive effect." Another point by Mr Cerar: "I am sure that the plot could now be settled, we are talking about 2004 only adequately resolved by a constitutional law which would be bound by a fundamental constitutional charter, etc. " Of course you'll say he's changed his mind. I heard earlier that Mr Jerovšek had changed his mind. Mr. Jerovšek has not changed his mind. Another thought from this interview is that it is extremely characteristic and probably painful for someone. On the contrary, Mr Cerar assessed the work of the Constitutional Judge, Mr Ribičič, and said this, the question is as follows: 'The work of the fisherman in the role of the scholar in the contested April decision'. We know how his party or party behaved at the time of his conquest. Mr Cerar said as follows: "The opinion of the opposition that he acted politically in this decision is expected, but personally I do not know whether he acted politically motivated or whether he defined only value and expertise. The problem is that the Constitutional Judge is someone who was so visible, former politicians. Mozetik, a former member of the SKB and then an expert member of the Constitutional Court, never succeeded in applying for a judge. I'm talking about 2004. By electing Dr. Ribičič, some arguments are raised against the candidacy of mags. The mosaic was shown to be very questionable. Well, we know the sequel until 2008 or 2007, when Mr Mozetič became a constitutional judge." Let me also draw attention once again to the legal opinion that has already been discussed, so I will not repeat it. Of course, we are talking about the legal opinion from that period, which is relatively clear: only the law can be the basis for decisions. Otherwise, it must be said that the Ministry decided, instead of a law that would deal with the issue in a uniform and comprehensive manner, in a decision of the Constitutional Court, on an unusual legal precedent and had already proposed the regulation of the problem in two laws. An external associate in the preparation of these two laws is Mr Krivic, 350,000 tolars, 1,500 euros. One of the laws was the so-called technical law. The Ministry insisted that it was urgently needed to issue decisions. However, when he was rejected at the referendum, he changed his opinion and began to issue decisions, about 4,000, some over 4,000 without a legal basis. At the time, I was also in the interior ministry. Clearly, a bunch of decisions came back, an unknown address. In parallel, it suggests that some of the things already mentioned, especially the period 2004-2008, should be mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, those who say that nothing has been done in the previous term are not. For four years, you had the opportunity to uphold the constitutional law, but you have always consistently rejected it and everywhere. In this context, this rejection is relatively clear. Why? The implementation of this rejection is now very clear through three parties, the reals, the SD and the LDS, who boycotted it at the time. And, of course, in 2009, they suddenly multiplied the number of so-called deleted 18.305, which was information for the time of the Robbery Government, which was information for the time of the Janša government. Natural laws would say that there are about 1,000 fewer of them, no, you've seen this increase. More or less personally, I know all the people who counted in 2003 who counted in 2004 and who counted in 2009, more or less. I don't know how that's possible, but let the investigative committee show it. What does compensation mean, what does it mean? In this regard, I would only like to draw attention to the following matter. From the Prime Minister to the Minister, to you, the initiators, all in the same line of crap - the issuance of decisions to the deleted has nothing to do with compensation. Same shit! Unbelievable. Unbelievable. I've been warning you for so long that this is half-truth. One more half of the truth must be told, which is that this decision will be the basis for proof, if you wish, in a separate property legal procedure against the State. I got a sample of a lawsuit earlier in e-mail. And with that letter, clearly deleted, the Society clearly gives instructions and says, "Wait for the decisions. These will be the basis, they will prove you and then file compensation claims." Of course, there is an application for free exemption from these taxes, bicycles or whatever it is called. That's what's attached, too. Whatever we look at the matter, there is an impression today that this part of the hall is defending. And this part is against deleted. That's not true. Never and never have we said that we are not prepared to correct the injustices of all those who have been wronged. And we never and never said that we're not ready to talk about these people getting compensation. But only those who were wronged. However, compensation should be limited. That's quite clear. And we're still open at this point in constitutional law. Just take it into your hands, read it, and let's talk. The Constitutional Law is the only one that represents a very clear situation of individual treatment, individual judgements and the elimination of injustices, and not the general decision-making that reaches all those on a computer list in 1991 can be moved away. So, they didn't, they died, we don't know that today. Of course, any refusal of any kind to say that all decisions of the Constitutional Court need to be fully implemented immediately and so on are also problematic by lawyers. Then I'm allowed to do that, too, and a very clear story. Whatever you're turning that situation around the majority electoral system, it doesn't make sense. You have trampled him, a referendum will from men as a 1,000-ton roller. It creates inequality before the law. This is one of our further accusations. It is very clear that someone else is likely to have been wronged in this country. Let's say the time before or after the second. World war, victims of war violence, left and right. That's not even what I'm getting into, and these people today have to walk from window to window, collect documents, prove and then some official decides. No, we send the so-called deleted in the form of a gift home. All of this can be prevented only by constitutional law. There's nothing more to talk about compensation. You've denied them for decades or more. You deny them today. But they become reality, and that's what people see, and people aren't blind. If I try to finish, I'll say it like this. It doesn't seem like we wouldn't be celebrating tonight. You've had enough of the majority you have. However, there will remain historical facts, likely to be judged in just four years. We'll support the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The day we found out about the interview against Minister Katarina Kresal, I remembered the book "Alice in Wonderland" and especially the room with mirrors. Since the country in which people who have for many years prevented the execution of constitutional decisions on deleted persons in all possible ways, today they report to the Minister that they are doing exactly what the Constitutional Court has decided is illegal work and they want to solve it because it is indeed a strange country. It's like they're walking into a room with mirrors where the skinny ones are going to become fat, the small ones are big, and the lawbreakers are going to be law-abiding. We are talking about a problem that has been 17 years, that is, too long a period for anyone who experiences injustice and pain, burdens and separates Slovenian politics. Above all, as a country, we have been put to the test whether we are still and or are able to remain and remain a legal country in which the decisions of the courts, in particular the Constitutional Court as the highest legal and judicial authority, or whether we will be dominated by narrow political, egotistic and individual, perhaps even partly by nationalism-inclined positions, full manipulation, political buying, phobia and will. And on different shores, it is likely that each of us will remain a politician after today's extraordinary session, which deals with the interpretation of the work and responsibilities of Interior Minister Katarina Kresal. And what is she accused of? The legal and constitutional conduct relating to deleted persons. Thus this time, the question and interpretation of the deletion, the relationship to the decision of the Constitutional Court, is no longer a matter of possible financial implications. No, this time it's a lot more. It is a real understanding of the rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for the judiciary as an independent and autonomous part of a democratic society. But here we truly differ greatly, dear colleagues. In the Group of Members, we are truly proud that the ruling coalition has unitedly and resolutely committed itself to resolve the problem after many years of pushing the problem under the carpet, after many years of evading and transferring the problem without curves and drains. This means, in the manner set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court. And in this respect, we fully support the work and also the courageous attitude of Minister Kresalova and her advocacy and representation of the positions of the rule of law. In doing so, we also note that such a decisive coalition move and unsuspecting support for the actions of the minister have also contributed to the increasing awareness of the weight and nature of the problem, and are increasingly under the influence of the politicised threats, which feed and feed on the pressures of people and raise doubts about the current social problems, crisis situations, sensitivity of attitude towards the so-called Southerners, national emotions. In doing so, they constantly and loudly emphasize and sow demagogies, hatred, lies, distorted data, and empty fears. The fact that public opinion is changing, however, and that more and more people who believe that the problem of deleted ones needs to be solved, is also witnessing a public petition published today in support of deleted signatories, such as Milan Kučan, Hribar Memorial, Ljubo Bavcon, Milena Zupančič and similar, if I only list some. And what are these distorted lies that I've been talking about? Firstly, the expression of concern about the use of the term 'deleted', as explained at the beginning of the text of the interpolation, by the proponents, is a re-emergence and malicious deceiving. In the opinion of the applicants, deleted persons should be offered citizenship, which they should even be invited to do publicly. As this was not regulated, they were simply transferred to another register, a register of foreigners without permanent residence, according to the cynical opinion of the applicants. Therefore, the deleted ones are, in the opinion of the applicants, merely carried over. Liar! And another lie and a persistent repetition of lies. In the case of cases that have been deleted in the Republic of Slovenia, it was definitely and unequivocally about the withdrawal of the status of permanent residence already acquired and not about the issue of citizenship, to which the applicants want to draw the attention all the time. It is therefore necessary to repeat and repeat again and again: This is not a question of access to citizenship, but of illegal and unconstitutional deprivation of permanent residence status. People who had apartments, houses that had lived in Slovenia for years, were born here, studied and worked, and became foreigners. In doing so, only former SFRJ citizens or even parents were treated discriminatoryly, perhaps even one of them from one of the former SFRJ republics. In doing so, it is necessary to quote and recall the statement made by the Constitutional Judge, Dr Dragica Vedam Lukič, with the following conclusion: when asked to apply for citizenship, the State did not tell the people that if they do not acquire citizenship, they would lose their right to permanent residence. What is tragic about this is that the status of permanent residence is linked to a much larger number of basic human rights than to citizenship. Last but not least, the deleted term was first used by officials at the offices of the administrative authorities, where they destroyed and pierced documents when they came to regulate their status. The term deleted is also used officially and for the first time in a decision of the Constitutional Court in 1999. In the case of deleted persons, it is a great injustice and a mistake made by Slovenia. It's about whether we can make this mistake and admit this injustice, eliminate it, and settle it. It's about justice, and not least, it's about some kind of catharsis. Will we be able to say that we have done something wrong, that we have done great injustice to many people today, and that we will be sorry and correcting it? It is the many and most tragic fates of thousands of unfortunates. In doing so, he is constantly and consciously manipulating himself to be really wiped out by the vast majority of the aggressors and recalculators that it is a mass of enemies of our country. A lie, a lie, and another lie. But it is true that the proponents and the majority of the protectors of Slovenian interests have never before presented and appointed any individual to judge among them. Over and over again only flat-rate accusations and manipulation of public opinion. In doing so, he consciously and deliberately forgets and overlooks the many terrible and cruel fates that have affected individuals from the loss of their jobs, the inability to study, the difficulty of free movement, the problems with housing, health insurance, broken families, and all the way out of the country. These stories are collected and described. These stories are documented in many statements, also in this book on deleted. Another time. On what grounds are the misleading of the proposers based, and statistics clearly show. They've never done that in years past. That is why the average talk was about officers, soldiers, enemies, opponents of Slovenia. Today, we know that a large number of deleted persons are children and minors. A total of 5360 are those who were not 18 years old when they were deleted, and over 1,800 are women. Well, more than half of all deleted are children and women. It is also interesting in this context that we read yesterday in Del about how Mr Janez Janša, former Minister of Defence, signed contracts for employment in territorial defence in 1991 and 1992 with people who could be counted as aggressors and enemies. In a specific case, even the commanding officer in one of the worst conflicts in Trzin. At a time when they were without an orderly citizenship and did not show loyalty to our country. So, while bureaucrats and officials, with clear instructions from the top of the country, took the documents without problem and completely heartlessly destroyed and suppressed them among the deleted, truly troubled people were employed by signature and under the auspices of Mr Janez Janša. In short, the people who were suitable for John Janša’s employment at the Ministry of Defence in 1991 become a few years later unfit for John Janša and SDS even to obtain permanent residence in Slovenia. Is there any better evidence that there is a prosecution against deleted and this interpretation of pure politics?Oh, my God! If the interpellation candidates truly have data and cases that they are among the deleted aggressors who have violated our laws, then they should be criminally incriminated. That's why you had every chance. And the duty to do so. Finally, this could be done in the time and mandate of your government with the assistance of the Attorney General Barbara Brezigar and the Minister of the Interior of Matei, who were in such a position to have scissors and linen in their hands. And that didn't happen. There's not a single case. And if we go back to the blanks. With a single move by an official who received clear instructions from above and then faithfully fulfilled them, great injustices occurred. People have become nothing, nonexistent, no documents, no rights, no future. Perhaps it is only necessary to look at the book Deleted, published by the Peace Institute in 2003, and to learn about specific cases and fates. Since it is obvious that you have not made this proposal so far, I will present this book to the loudest of them today - Mr Branko Grimes. I hope you take it into your hands, read it and think about it. Maybe it's a story on page 97 that's talking about M. U. from the area of Ptuj, which was born in Slovenia in the mid-50s, the mother of Slovenka and the father of Serbia, who was declared Croatian at the municipal office, were asked to arrange for the application of a permanent residence passport, in this case Croatian. She had to become a Croatian citizen, prove herself by examination of the knowledge of Slovenian language, even though she attended Slovenian schools. After long and painful journeys, she settled matters in Croatia. All these years she was deprived of her rights, remained black in her apartment and proved with witnesses that she had lived in Slovenia for the rest of her life, even though she was well - known in the congregation and had worked her whole life and worked in the same congregation. A story worth the Kafkov process, as has been said today. In short, it prevails over the cold, unrelenting, bureaucratic procedure over all other ways of thinking. Or an example that happened in my congregation when they came from a 13 - year - old girl named S. S., born in Slovenia, where parents lived for over 40 years, when they did not give her citizenship, made fun of her, made a fool of her, sent her from door to door. She couldn't go to school, she took care of unemployed parents, she got sick later. And then, after a long calvary, she acquired citizenship in 2000. And today he says, "I will never forget how my own country wiped me out. Was I an aggressor? I was a kid. Fear remained in me, and I will die with it." And then, Mehmedi Alić, the man who led the excavation in Barbara's trench. He was stateless, no income, no work for six years, erased. Saša Milenkovic, a middle school student who has lived in Slovenia since the fifth year, who was not allowed to enter the Faculty of Sport without an orderly status, found himself on the brink of poverty and workless. "Who's going to give me back ten years of my life," she wonders today. We would also like to ask all of us again in the Group of Members, and especially the interpellationers: Do we really love our country and country so much if we do not respect our Constitutional Court and ignore its decisions, even though they are direct to us twice, and seven times indirectly say that it has been deleted? Whether we are indeed and still democratic, if we do not recognise and see that we have been publicly condemned by top international institutions such as the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Amnesty International, the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia, to list only some. Respectable interpellationers, can you answer the question whether all these most respected international human rights institutions are really wrong? In this regard, in the Group of Members, we really believe that because of the failure to comply with the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, among other things, the former Minister and your companion, Dragutin Mate, should be sitting, if I may say so. True, he performed some sort of blind maneuver with constitutional law, but when he failed to do so, there is no excuse for not doing anything in four years. In doing so, however, it must be said that Dr Bohinc, the former Minister of the Interior, tried to solve at least something, although unsuccessful, insufficient and inadequate. But the fact is that several thousand complementary decisions have only been issued. Under the Government of Minister Matei, not one single decision has been issued in four years. Although there was always a legal basis for this. In doing so, let me also reiterate that, immediately after its creation in 2007, the party Zares gave Minister Mate the initiative to start solving the problem, without opposing the constitutional law. The Minister assessed the initiative as, quote, "value of conversation", and then decided to go somewhere for a long six-month period. However, when he came forward with his proposal for a constitutional law, it was clear that we were different in substance. We agreed to a constitutional law. But only on condition that it takes full account of the decision of the Constitutional Court. While Minister Mate, after receiving clear and unequivocal instructions from the SDS polytburo, proposed agreement to political parties, a constitutional law which was fundamentally contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court and contrary to its requirements. Finally, I'd like to say the following. Interpellation investors know exactly that Minister Kresalov is acting properly and legally. It was a bold claim, but I'll justify it. Interpreters promised before the 2004 elections that they would revise all decisions issued by Minister Bohinc if they came to power. And they came to power and got all the levers to do it. In the past four years, they had everything in their hands. They have not revised a single decision, even though the Minister of the Interior was a member of the SDS, which is currently at the forefront of all activities to prevent the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision on the deleted, and although it is impossible for this gentleman to see a lack of determination, at least not in the construction of the new building of the interior ministry. Therefore, there is only one reason: the former Government and today's opposition were aware that these decisions are in conformity with the law and cannot be repealed. That, my dear colleagues, is what you know today. Therefore, interpellation is unfounded and not just that, this interpellation is also immoral.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u34	First of all, the last lady from Zares's answer, in response to her gift, which I know. I've read it, too. I'm going to give her a magnetogram of the hearing of Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who in her case, who also published and was far more known or infamous among all the cases published by the Peace Institute, said herself that it was blackmailing high damages, and I quote, "When the pressure was exerted on power, they just had to invent some things." End of quote. Then I propose that Mrs Zares and Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs sit together to tell us firsthand how much truth is in this tearful story, specifically in her own case. This will save us some time in this debate. However, I hope that everyone accompanying it is now crystal clear on how these stories are. The other thing that is very embarrassing is that nationalism is again being fomented. This was four years ago the tactics of the former LDS and Really, once again proves that he is a faithful political successor to the former LDS. It's not really going to happen here, and it's never going to be a separation between Slovenians and Slovenes. Just like you did today, the first and only one, and I regret that very much. It is a separation of a positive attitude towards the country of Slovenia, Slovenia. And among those who did not have a positive relationship with her, they did not accept her or calculate her account or even attack her with weapons in the worst cases. This is where this story goes, Mrs. Zares, if you deny it a thousand times. And if you want the best evidence, it's in the archives of the National Assembly. Because in the last referendum on legislation related to so-called deleted four years ago, you can read even the first page of those who have submitted an initiative to call for a legislative referendum, and you will read last names such as Petrovič, Alibegovič, Aleksandrovich etc., etc. You will not find a single Slovenian last name on the entire front page. Among other things, you will find as many surnames as you would like from other former Yugoslav republics. 'Cause what's this all about? These people have shown a positive attitude towards the country of Slovenia. By accepting Slovenian citizenship, by regulating their status. And they know exactly that if, in a given period, they are forced to pay damages and to pay court fees and to issue decisions to the so-called deleted, who were once ridiculed, ridiculed or threatened by traitors or even by weapons, as Mr Alijeski has specifically presented his case in this National Assembly, they will be forced to do so. That's what this is about, ma'am! That's why it's a value segment. The value - a positive attitude towards his country, his country, a positive attitude, the positive values of patriotism, highlighted by many. The former and current president of the country are putting it at the forefront. And those who cannot overcome these values, and those who you advocate, obviously also, unfortunately, do not overcome this value, at least not enough. Another manipulation that requires an answer is the constant question of these children. Madam Minister has already begun this issue. Do you know what really happened back then?Oh, my God! It may be possible to document a very large number of cases when officials or officers of the former JLA were sending their families back to their home republics at the time of the preparation of the attack on the independent state of Slovenia. They've been sending them away for a long time. Of course, most of them were not afraid to check out, and their children were largely not checked out. Why didn't they check them out? Yeah, because that would kind of tell the state itself, they're preparing something for the administration. By doing so, these parents, who are responsible for their children, knowingly violated the legislation of the then state, which required that they sign off on their long journey. Many even sold apartments. Many have checked out in factories, businesses, and, by the way, have even taken away their severance payments. That's what they did. But they didn't check out in administrative units because they were going to tell this country what they were really up to. But this has actually violated the country's positive legislation. And for this violation of the law are today declared victims and entitled to compensation?Oh, my God! Where else in the world have you seen anything like this? That's what I want to know. And for this reason, of course, this is not and cannot be the responsibility of children to understand each other. And please - stop manipulating it! This is the responsibility of parents who did not properly respect the laws of the day. But the bill for the wrong decision or for the calculation, as is obvious in many cases, cannot now be exposed to the country of Slovenia, and it is extremely distasteful that you force it in such a way. Then, what needs to be answered from the performance of the Minister. She put the way forward in the case of the late Mr Jörg Haider. I'm sure she knew why she was doing this. For the party with whom he is in the coalition, this is Pahor's SD, used a manual years ago for all his electoral candidates, in which, as an ideal of public performances, their Members, i.e. the SD Members, as close as possible, put Mr Jörg Haider in the right place. I believe that everyone today is also pursuing this goal. Next. It was said: "Yes, the supplementary decision, there has not been any compensation from this title." Well, we didn't give it a hard time. You're even an electoral campaign, everyone in line has claimed that no compensation can be paid from the delete. I quote, "It will not be paid and no compensation can be paid from this title." Mr Todorovic received first-degree compensation of more than EUR 50,000, and this is not enough. So much for who's telling the truth and who's not. Next thing you know, it's a special gift. It has been pointed out by Madam Minister, I must say that I also very much regret that this is the same separation as it was after World War II. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, if you hadn't noticed, after the official duty, there had been a discovery of a ditch in the Hudi Cave. And then there was the separation of the living and the living, the criminals and the victims. You're supposed to be the one who should be investigating this on official business. I am not surprised, however, that you are making such an inappropriate comparison with the current situation, because you are a member of the same coalition, from which we have also heard infinite cynicism - I do not have words for it - that in the days after the end of World War II, I quote "we have set foot in the path of progress". At the time of the discovery, which turns out that people have been buried alive, endless suffering, to say so cynically that we have embarked on the path of progress while, forgive me, in a civilized Europe, they are left without words. I don't have anything to add to that either. The third statement, which was made at that time, touched the concept deleted. If you are, why are we probleming this, why are we using so-called deleted? And as an argument, it was stated that this was the first time the Constitutional Court had used it. The Constitutional Court can also be wrong, ladies and gentlemen. A legislative decision published by the Constitutional Court may be the subject of controversy as well as any other. This is also a fundamental postulate of constitutional law if you want. This does not mean that such a decision does not apply. Of course it does. However, it is still possible to give an opinion as to what is wrong with this decision and, in the case at hand, it is a matter of using the concept completely wrongly deleted. The term deleted was related to direct deprivation of citizenship in the Baltic States and is thus applicable in Europe. And use this in the case of Slovenia, when it came to adding a transfer tag from one register to another, because the status of this person was not clear, is extremely humiliating for our country Slovenia as well as extremely unfair, Madam Minister, for all those servants and servants who were then conscientiously working and were convinced that they comply with the current Slovenian legislation. And they actually did. As their testimony suggests, for example, how they extended their working time in Idria, how they sent 7,000 invitations to those who did not respond to the call for status regulation in Ljubljana. And they only responded between 500 and 700. Thousands returned because the cover was unknown. So much in response to all those who asked for proof of how it really was done at the time. At the same time, there are also testimonies. I quote only a case from Idria: "I remember cases where we have been very patient with the referees of some, if they will decide to settle their status in the Republic of Slovenia when they so wish." Madam Secretary, isn't that a calculation? You said there was no calculation. You denied that. You're even being lied to by your own MP, who said, I quote only the last sentence: "Where is the basis that prohibits people from calculating for their own benefit, Mr Grims, tell me?" This is the basis of general human ethics when it comes to own country and its own issue, its own citizenship, its own status, its own integrity. But it's just a matter of personal interest. But an account, when you don't act ethically, you can't expose it to the state. The one who built this structure experienced eternal legal and ethical shame. Now, there's something else I need to stress. It was mentioned several times earlier - Mr Potrč began to mention this with the name and surname, the floor and the announcement by Mr Wigla, who announced in Belgrade the payment of damages and the issuance of documents to the so-called deleted. Why was there such a circus in Parliament that a normal debate could not be held? This, of course, is pure conjecture. We have discussed similar things many times. The answer is very simple. Because he told the truth because he had overexposed because he had issued decisions and compensations in the same sentence. This is on one side a claim within your own coalition, unfortunately, given abroad in an inappropriate place that puts you back on the lie. On the other hand, it is also, of course, because it has identified the fundamental priorities of this coalition - the issue of decisions. That's why you're in such a hurry. Where are the measures? A third package of measures is now being announced. I personally have to say that I have not seen the first and second package of these measures to revive the Slovenian economy. There was some savings in the 'coffee', and you arrogantly rejected most of those good proposals made by the Government of Janez Janša, and thus deepened the crisis to the present state. It's not just, ladies and gentlemen, something the opposition would read to you. This was also stated yesterday by a representative of employers in the face of television. So in such a case, of course, things are to be carried out by causing additional costs, such as costs relating to the issue of decisions, judicial proceedings. Then it's a matter of lawyers. Before that, a colleague used the term "free legal services". It can mislead the ignorant in public. These, of course, are not free. These services are paid by the state, which is paid by taxpayers. It's not like someone in a fair relationship would give someone a free service. But it's hard to reach into the taxpayers' pocket. His wallet picks up his wallets and hands them to his lawyer for the purpose of doing so. This is really a tactic that is being driven through the Ministry of the Interior at this time. And of course, at the end of this journey there are compensations. For this, it endangers the public finances system. That is why it threatens to lower living standards so that less money will be spent on investments in education, in health care, in kindergartens, in everything that people urgently need. And, you see, this is what the Government is doing, which, as the unemployed get longer, predicts wage cuts in the public sector, calls on the private sector everywhere to reduce wages. At the same time, this money is intended for the issuance of decisions, for judicial proceedings and at the final stage for the payment of damages to the so-called deleted. Here you can see what the real priority of this government is. And that's what kept you from talking about what was said in Belgrade. Well, at the same time, I have two more things to react to, which is what I'm ending up with. Look, Mr. LDS said, "You're reading the vote for the LDS." I must say, I haven't said that on behalf of the applicants today. On behalf of the candidates, I said that the ruling coalition was buying new voters at the expense of taxpayers. I didn't even name LDS. Because that's the difference between thinking and knowing, in my opinion. Regardless of all the high words spoken here, you know, the Murphy Law applies: Whatever they say to you, they tell you in truth about money. This is one of Murphy's fundamental political laws. But in fact, it's, like, the difference between thinking and knowing. No matter what anyone says right now, Mrs Kresalova may really think that there will be a new voter for her client. But everyone in the SD and you really know that this will be your electorate and that the LDS will be sacrificed on the altar, which will no longer be in Parliament's next term. You say that yourself in the halls, by the way. As far as Mr Potec is concerned, it is the opposition's fault that we have not yet settled this issue. You know, that's something that requires a special answer. We have once been at the point of reaching the compromise text of the constitutional law. We even had it written down. And Mr Potrč knows this very well, with a member of the SD, former Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Rad Bohince. Then we met at a meeting: Mr Janša, Mr Bohinc, Mr Rob and I. And Mr Rob reacted extremely humiliatingly against Mr Bohinc and prevented the confirmation of that compromise text that we have drafted together, as it were said. Therefore, if the SD gentleman now says that it is the opposition's fault, that we are in the present state, that he should turn around in his seat and look back into his own kind, and in the SD type he will know why we are still dealing with this matter today. And just for the end. In view of all that has been said, I merely repeat the words of Dr. Toneta Jerovška, author of the Slovenian Constitution on human rights and one co-author of the Basic Constitutional Charter and President of the Constitutional Court, who is this controversial decision of the Constitutional Court, to which you still swear unreservedly, commented with the words: "The decision of the Constitutional Court has come to political demagogs who burn for the human rights of some and to others, if only they are beaten, very right. Its consequences will be far-reaching. For the reputation of the Constitutional Court, however, they are already catastrophic. No one believes her because she's legally insufferable, except for the blind and the blind. And whoever does not see attempts to break democracy and institutions will, of course, sleep peacefully." This, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the issue of values, the attitude towards one's own country is what is really the basis for proposing that Minister Kresalov be resolved because of her behaviour and the threat to the public finances system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u35	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary Katarina Kresal. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. In the introduction, it was said in the main opposition party's manner that interpellation is "a punishment for sin". Because if we passed the Constitutional Law on deleted this interpolation, there would be no such thing. Again, this is a case of blackmail, which we are constantly witnessing to in this mandate. But, Madam Minister, I do not consider interpretation against you to be an interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, but, given what the interpellationers have said so far, if possible, would rather refer her to the Constitutional Court. That's what this is about. For it is absurd to intercede against the Minister because he is implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. And another absurd thing is that, on behalf of the SDS Group, it was said that there were no legal acts at the time of the independence. It's like we're living in a legal moose at the time. As if there were no human rights conventions at the time. And it is on the Convention on Human Rights, which counts as one fundamental right - the right to stay, that I will base my brief thinking on this interpretation. The blind and deaf are probably the ones who should forgive me, who do not know from some of the documents of the prominent institutions of this country, that the problem that we are facing is long ago perceived and perhaps only named differently. This is the 1995 report of the Ombudsman, Ivo Bizjak - I hope you will not at least tell him that it is from my client - who says that almost all citizens of the former SFRJ republics who have had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia are criticising the implementation of the transition to foreign status, which has been made by deleting from the Register of Permanent Populations without notice, and by the repeated brutal withdrawal or destruction of personal documents without the proper procedure being carried out and any act or at least given appropriate explanations and instructions. I'm warning you, this is what the Ombudsman wrote down. And further on, it would be possible to say that one who does not have an orderly status who is responsible for the irregularity of the status itself. But the number of cases of irregular status shows that the regulatory and operational arrangements in this area are not good. Thus, since 1995, it has been pointed out that regulatory arrangements are not good. And nothing happened. I would like to point out that I cannot read the text of the interpolation as it is professionally called a coherent text. But if I translate it into a common language, I'd say it's a confusing text, not to say "mangled." It is written here at the outset that they will use the relativized term "deleted". And he's not relativized enough once. So, by adding so-called, it must still be a day during the call. And here comes the use of the term as unscientific or gravely misleading. Yes, I beg you, since when is interpellation a scientific text? Since when is the word "delete" used or derived from this term "deleted" scientific term? Just as it is unrelated that Minister Katarina Kresal is condemned for misbehavior. And they're doing it out of her oath when she swore in the first sentence that she'd respect the constitutional order. And respect for the constitutional order commands her to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Second incoherence. And such inconsistencies, which limit not only half the truth, but are eccentric lies, there is something else in this interpretation. They've already been warned. I would also like to point out that, in the light of the views expressed here by investors, I would like to point out. They probably also know the document you'll find on the back of the book, the story of some erasure. However, there are also facsimiles of this record, according to which the number of those who were identified as 40,000 on June 4, 1992. And the latter is written that according to the number of these persons, those who have lost permanent residence status and those who have applied for citizenship have not received it. So much for who speculated, how and when. But what's most important is actually written here at the end: "The self-sustainment laws have allowed to the fullest extent the freedom to decide the status of these persons." And now comes this important statement: "That is why we believe that in further procedures it is necessary to deny the rights acquired, because they have given up consciously." So it was a conscious act, which the Constitutional Court found to be illegal, that it was also unconstitutional. Therefore, it is in the sense that we must defend those who advocate the thesis that injustice has been done to those who have been wronged, but the reverse burden of proof. However, I would like to point out only this, Mr Grimes, that they have had their health rights regulated. Let's take a look at the book I showed you on page 59, where the first article is "Metastaze Delete" and then maybe the second article "No Health Card You Are No One". And I am volunteering to read you four exclusive cases of inability to exercise treatment rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u37	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have discussed this subject many times in this Chamber. And indirectly, in the hall that was in this place before this restoration. This is also the hall which saw the adoption of the constitutional law by implementing the basic constitutional charter, which defined the basis of the new Slovenian state. It's called a citizen. And what we are discussing today is, in a way, whether this constitutional law is respected or not. And this constitutional law is above the other laws adopted by this Parliament and is also above the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court does not have the power to repeal the Constitution or the constitutional law by which that State was created. If it really was the other way around, we could, I don't know, expect this court's decision that Slovenia is gone. And you would argue that it should be respected. When it comes to interpolation, not only is it justified, but it is absolutely necessary. With this act, which we have done on duty as the opposition, this story will not be solved. It won't be over. However, it will begin to resolve itself and, at least in large part, in our view, the damage will also be prevented. Not entirely because this government coalition has set its priorities both against pre-election promises and against the demands of time. Even if all of this was, of course, not, there is almost no real sentence in what has been said today in defense of this act. It is said that decisions are issued without a legal basis and without individual treatment deleted. No one has to make a request, no act. Decisions shall be issued automatically. In short, even if all of this were to be true, if there were an indisputable legal basis, if there was political consensus and if they were actually convinced that Slovenia had deleted - as you say - for the 5 average municipalities of the Slovenian population, even if all of this was true, it would still be necessary to weigh the priorities at that time. And when it comes to the issue of priority, with this act, this government coalition has strongly shot the pass. Even if anything else, I'll talk about it later, so let's leave it at the stop. The fact is, a few days ago, we have experienced or heard official forecasts for the first time since Slovenia's statistical comparison with the European Union, forecasts that will lead us to fall behind the average of the European Union's development. Slovenia has so far reached the European Union's average of development. Now, for the first time in our lives, we have predictions that show we're going to fall behind faster. It is said that the recession will be greater than the average forecast for the European Union. That didn't bother anyone. They're talking about some anti-crisis packages. They're talking about the third package. We didn't even see the first package. And when we wait for it, what the third anti-crisis package is supposed to be, it may hardly be something that will solve the first and second, or what was done in the first and second attempts in which all the proposals that can actually affect the improvement of the economic situation and the business environment were actually rejected. So the priority of this government coalition is completely reversed. Issue decisions to create new obligations for taxpayers. However, if we do so, it is quite clear that the new obligations will be such and different. And at the same time, to show a little book in which the legitimate cases of those who have been wronged can be listed, and to put it as a priority at this time and in this environment, is something that suggests a fundamental loss of the compass. In the last, say, 50 decades or five decades or only 30 years, it has happened in this country or in the territory where Slovenia today is guilty of several libraries. For a few libraries, if you'd like to list them, not for a few books like that. At least a few libraries as big as this National Assembly. Of course, these injustices are no priority of this government coalition. They were significantly bigger. Subtlely more drastic. Not only have human rights been violated - the right to life for thousands of hundreds to a life of dignity. Thousands or tens of thousands were exiled. We have not even begun a debate on the correction of these injustices. This is, of course, for various reasons that I will talk about later. One topic, which has its very clear political background, is placed at the heart of this government coalition and these governments at a time when the whole world is facing a global economic crisis. Instead, we have experienced from this government coalition: the issue of decisions without a legal basis to be deleted, which will be the basis for high claims for damages, the decision of the Minister of Justice, who has reduced competition among notaries and thereby undermined these services, and I will say this without any public announcement and debate, I will only sign. Instead of 135 notary cities, there are now only 98. It means less accessibility of services and more expensive services. You have passed the Law on legal tariffs, by which these services will certainly be more expensive. I don't know what the other motive was for that. Tarife's re-establishing the Bar on her own. And you also passed a law that urgently saves the widow's pensions of military insurers. At the same time, it forgets the widows of farmers, the recipients of farm pensions, who have not received any pensions for many years, nor state pensions, and so on. Only the specific categories where the political interest of the government coalition is a priority are here. I was very surprised to hear earlier the emotional performance of DeSUS's representative, who put in defence of the issuance of these decisions and the rights of so-called deleted 10 times more energy than in defence of the Draganj allowance for pensioners with the lowest pensions. And there were some other cases like this. So these are the priorities that are very clear. One is talking about anti-crisis measures, of which we have pictures of meetings and press conferences and nothing else. And every day 200 or 300 new unemployed. On the other hand, the coalition here, either by means of a voting machine or by way of a vote, without law, by decrees or by issuing decisions without a legal basis, realizes its priorities. While such priorities were not even announced before the elections. Of all government parties, and this must be acknowledged honestly, only in the party's electoral programme do we really find a forecast that decisions will be issued to the deleted and that this should be regulated as they imagined. All other government parties don't talk about it or speak so vaguely that one doesn't know what they're proposing. If this is so important that the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights is cited, why didn't you quote it before the elections?Oh, my God! If you quote names here and say that all of Slovenia is behind you, why didn't you go to the elections with this program? I'd get, like, 90%. And that's how he hid like a snake's leg. And after the elections, based on this fraud, it's a completely reversed priority. Not only in line with what was promised. Not only in comparison to what was promised, but also in comparison to what the present time requires. I said earlier that some of the cases that were read here are certainly true. At a time when Slovenia was forming a foundation, true citizenship also occurred. That's what we talked about five years ago. I've read some of these cases myself. There were or were there people who were simply not here physically at the time. There are people, and this category may be the largest that had the necessary documents at the time, in order to regulate their status here, somewhere in the territories of the republics of the former Yugoslavia, where conflicts or conflicts have already begun, where these documents may have been destroyed or there was a security risk on the way to obtain it. And we have often said that these are justifiable cases that need to be dealt with from case to case and that we need to determine whether someone has actually been either uninformed or objectively prevented from having their status regulated. To speak of Slovenia, however, when it comes to its creation, contrary to what is enshrined in the constitutional law on the implementation of the basic constitutional charter, it is for those who did not want to settle their status, but it is huge cynicism. Slovenia was born new and has not been renamed. I believe that the Minister, who did not even know when the first elections were in this country, was not so clear a year ago. However, I believe that it is clear to those who sat in this hall when key decisions were made. Slovenia has created a new one and has also re-established the foundation of each country. This is the status of citizens and citizens. And it is clear that the status of foreigners has also been defined in relation to this foundation. Nowhere is it said that everyone needs to guarantee some of the rights he had in the previous country. Especially if he does not ask for them himself or if he does not accept them himself. At that time, many cases were cited, partly by my colleagues, when those who regulated their status received threats, bullying and physical bills. Two hundred thousand people who came to Slovenia in one way or another during the former Yugoslavia have settled their status. Therefore, Slovenia has provided far more liberal opportunities than any country that has emerged in recent decades. No conditions had to be met. Even the Slovenian language was not to be known. This is the fundamental condition of any country which gives citizenship to demand that one who receives that nationality or wants to receive it that he knows at least the language. There was no such condition in Slovenia either. Two hundred thousand people took care of it. Some of those who lived in environments that were more pro-Yugoslavically oriented have also been bullied by physical violence, threats, arson, or experiments. When we discussed this subject a few years ago in this hall, we read quite a few of these examples. Today, too, calls and letters are coming from these people, who are not Slovenians, who have settled their citizenship in 1991 or 1992 and who say that this is the most unjust thing to them. Those who were loyal to the country that was created and who arranged things will now pay compensation to those who have not done so and may even have been threatened. This is the wrong world. Things are on the table and cannot be excused by any sorcery of such or other politicians who later became constitutional judges. However, these justified cases, as I mentioned earlier, are certainly not 25 or 18 thousand. There aren't 10,000 of them, and there's not 5,000 of them. Maybe there's a few hundred of them, maybe a thousand and something. We speak in mind and make assessments because cases are not dealt with individually. To claim that 25 000 people were deleted at the time of their independence, and now to give them decisions that they lived permanently in Slovenia, means to claim that in Slovenia 17 years lived for the size of five average municipalities without each status. This is not possible even in Madagascar, let alone in Slovenia. If that were true, then it would mean that a 12-year-old government of the Liberal Democracy at that time led a country where 25,000 people could live illegally, dealt with anything and threatened both security and social structure in that country. Of course that's not true. You need to know what 25,000 people are. We had 20,000 in refugee centres during the war in Bosnia or, I think, more people. All the capacities of all settlements, construction companies, single homes and various emergency shelters have been met. This force was a logistical problem for this country, for the 20,000 refugees who were on its shoulders directly. There were many others who were around with relatives and families. So if 25 thousand so-called 17-year-olds had been wiped out in Slovenia, you know that wouldn't have gone unnoticed. This category, to which you now issue decisions, began not in 1991, nor in 1992 nor in 1993. But it began to emerge under the Dayton Accords in the mid-1990s, when it became clear that Slovenia would jump away from the former Yugoslav space when it became clear that pensions in Slovenia were four times higher than in Serbia at the time. When it became clear that Milosevic's adventure with the "great Serbia" would not be successful and that life would be much more difficult in those places where these people from Slovenia went than in Slovenia. After the European perspective was opened for Slovenia, this motive increased, and this category also increases the pressures and arrivals back and various lobbying. During the period from which the Ombudsman’s report was previously read, some ten of these cases were recorded. And in these cases, they are almost certainly mostly justified. These are people who actually had the problem that most of the injustices occurred to them directly or indirectly and who should be dealt with more delicately at that time. 18,000, as has been said by this year, and now even 25,000, is a completely fabricated number. These people didn't just live here at the time. Most of these don't even live here today. Those who did not believe that Slovenia would succeed have left Slovenia. And in the spring of 1992, when this terrible crime was to occur, Slovenia was not yet fully internationally recognised, until May of this year, it is said after that date that we were admitted to the United Nations. And things were more so economically, with high inflation, with the loss of Yugoslav markets and with comparisons that did not give any very obvious advantages in life in Slovenia to other parts of the former country. Then that changed. And this category has started to grow and has become interesting in all sorts of ways. It was particularly close to some who had the same political doubts about the success of Slovenian independence as they did, and related souls were quickly found. The issue of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have been partially cited, has been initiated, which are some such as to constitute a mockery of the legal profession. And this is not my opinion, but it is the opinion of people who have sometimes also led the Constitutional Court, but they are a legal fact beyond which they cannot be, and it is necessary to seek solutions that take this legal fact into account. However, it is necessary to know that the law adopted earlier than the Constitution has been adopted is problematic, the Foreigners Act was adopted at the end of spring 1991 and the Constitution was adopted in December of the same year. So also the theoretical law at the time could not be unconstitutional because the Constitution had not yet been established. And a second time. The provision in the law on foreigners is almost exactly prescribed in the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument. And from this point of view, something that is copied from the Constitution cannot be unconstitutional. That a matter cannot be resolved in any other way than that stated in the explanatory memorandum or in the sentence of the Constitutional Court’s judgment, it simply does not. My colleagues have already argued that. In part, you cited this argument yourself by the government coalition when you said that once the National Assembly had already taken a decision, which went through the Constitutional Court's decision, in that case even through a referendum. And even the Venice Commission has confirmed such a solution. We have a formula that won't be used for the first time. When it came to your interest, it was very quick. Now, when it comes to the interest of Slovenian taxpayers, the obstacles are obviously large. Some of my colleagues mentioned issues of equality before the law. Anyone in Slovenia who wants to continue to exercise a right from his creation must submit an application, regrettably, sometimes still to one or more officials, to the counters, to pay taxes, to prove that he is entitled to the right given him by law, and only then does any commission or body decide whether it is true or not. There's only one exception. And these are so-called deleted. Decisions shall be issued on an official basis without a single application. Without bringing a single certificate that they really lived in Slovenia at that time, you make decisions on the current lane. They say they've lived here since their independence. And you're saying this has nothing to do with citizenship, which is purely demeaning. A key condition for obtaining citizenship is a ten-year stay in the country. And when he receives the decision to have been here since his independence, he fulfils the fundamental condition for citizenship. And he becomes a citizen and also an electorate, and in this bush lies a rabbit. This is also the basic motive for suddenly increasing the number from 18 to 25 thousand with the same information system and with the same staff that counted those numbers. But it's all about inequality before the law. People who were in Nazi camps as well as Communist camps, people who lost their parents or relatives in the war. This is now regulated by legislation. The exiles must put in a role where these things are even arranged, search for evidence, walk through archives, collect documentation to become entitled to a right. For the material victims of World War II, for some mobilisers, we do not yet have this right for children killed in law, but this has been done 60 years ago, and this is not a priority for this coalition. It is the rights of Slovenian citizens. Not for those you just want to become citizens. It's about people paying taxes in this country for a long time. And they've worked their whole lives for what we have today. And that's not a priority for this coalition. Not only is the issue of injustices and their correction being treated differently in substance, but these categories are also formally placed in different situations. Someone has to make his own effort to have this right recognised to him, and decisions on an official basis are given to others. It's really an unprecedented cynicism. Now, with these numbers now changing from month to month, it's being manipulated too easily. 25 000 is the number of five average Slovenian municipalities. 25 000 is a number which, in addition, if these decisions have been issued, poses a threat to the lodging of claims for damages. It also represents a major attack on social funds in this country. Most of these people don't live here. They then had citizenship in some other republics. They have gone down and are now waiting somewhere outside Slovenia to receive these decisions. And then they came to Slovenia because that is, with us, social support or support for the unemployed is greater than the average wage in most of the countries created in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Not to talk about other benefits, not to talk about social needs, housing needs, etc. None of this was foreseen by the coalition in its rebalancing, in its forecasts for the future, even though this will automatically cause costs. Ten thousand more unemployed, for example, for Slovenia means a very tangible economic category. 10,000 more people on social transfers means a very tangible social category for Slovenia. And at a time when it is said that salaries will be reduced for public servants, at a time when it is said that work time will be extended, with the number of unemployed growing and in itself stupidity, a decision will be made without a legal basis that will directly strengthen the pressure on all these funds and public finances. For this reason, it is obvious that interpellation is also justified by the threat of Slovenian public finances, not only justified, but very justified! And in this time of year, it's extremely real. The experience we have from a similar debate five years ago shows that these arguments will mostly be bob against the wall. Even when this debate opened, there was an extraordinary mobilization of one political spectrum in that country. The entire ideological intelligence was engaged, which we also experienced yesterday. There were a number of cases that could be fully justified, and there was an attempt to show how 25 thousand innocent children had been wiped out. At that time, we also spent two or three months monitoring all this preparation. The propaganda machine of the culture of death was grinding forever, but then we had a referendum. At a referendum that knew exactly what we were deciding, where there was no deceiving and which had a far-out average participation in referenda in Slovenia, the plebiscite majority rejected what you are doing today. And as with our side, it would not be fair if it were done as if the decisions of the Constitutional Court were not, on your part, unfair if you pretend that this referendum result was not there. He was! It was a high participation and a very clear result. High participation, although all those who signed a petition yesterday called for nonparticipation. So this fact must also be taken into account. And in fact, if we look from a legal or legal point of view, we are in a situation where we need to find a solution that will overcome this dilemma. Ridiculous efforts to find a solution to the constitutional law and to overcome this situation are unprecedented cynicism. This will only deepen the problem itself, create another one. The price for these voters you want new will, in my opinion, be too great. Those who justify issuing decisions without individual treatment and without a legal basis with human rights should be at least fair enough to see this argument even when it comes to other legislation adopted in this National Assembly. And we should, if nothing else, take into account a time priority. We all have human rights, and if someone has been wronged, I don't know, 30 years ago, he's probably more entitled to this repair than he was to who happened 17 years ago, even assuming that this was just happening. So in a situation that, due to the political motive and priority of this government coalition, which was not notified to voters at the time of their decision-making, became more complex than it was before. There is only one solution, and this is a solution that in some ways builds on the provision of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter, where Slovenia has defined its basis, it is said, the status of citizens or citizenship. There were a lot of words under the Constitutional Law, and there was a lot of consultation. Earlier it was said that the name of the former President of the Republic of Drnovsk had been misused when he mentioned it. His name is not being misused. In 2006, when the Government proposed the Constitutional Law and Consultation, he wrote this letter to all the Presidents of the parliamentary parties at the time, saying very clearly: "The Government has recently drafted a proposal for a Constitutional Law to address this issue. Despite certain concerns arising with regard to this proposal, I believe that it constitutes an acceptable basis for further negotiations between the parties. Dear Mr President, this is addressed to all parties: "It is time for an agreement. Slovenia needs it. Our country needs it. I am sure that you can manage enough wisdom and political power for an agreement." This was written by someone who led a party with the same name as the current Minister of the Interior, when she had 34 Members, now there are only five, and I think he was more credible. And he was there when these things happened. And this assessment of what is the solution that could draw the line in it must be respected. Although he also called for nonparticipation at the time of the referendum. But things were moving on. And if there had been at least a little obedience by the opposition then in 2006, the constitutional law would have been passed. Problems would be dealt with individually and also resolved. And this debate today would simply not be. So once again, the problem that lies ahead is not one layer. Slovenia has never wiped out 25,000 of its population, who are expected to live in Slovenia without any status to date. Slovenia has re-arranged its foundation, this is the status of citizens, in accordance with all international standards, and has received a number of awards for this when comparing our arrangements with others. At that time and because of the time itself, not so much in us, but around us, many have had objective problems in regulating this status, and that is what must be taken into account. However, this can only be taken into account by dealing with each case individually and by eliciting the beneficiaries or by separating them from the unjustifiable ones. Given that due to the adoption of the so-called technical law, which was rejected at the referendum where the plebiscite majority was against, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court also have a complex situation, it can only be resolved by constitutional law. So, our proposal is for the Minister to promise here that she will stop issuing decisions without a legal basis, that negotiations or agreement on the drafting and harmonisation of the constitutional law will continue and that this solution will then be adopted as unanimously as possible. Another alternative, it is said, will soon lead to the situation it was five years ago. And here I would just repeat the words that have been spoken from the other side, I do not believe, despite the proven patience of the Slovenes and Slovenes and also the citizens and citizens of this country, that it will be possible to pull them by the nose here. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u39	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Although the previous speaker has dealt with many different topics, it is more rare in Parliament and has taken advantage of the opportunity and said so forward and backward. I'm going to focus on what today's session is about. The removal of political opponents has become increasingly sophisticated over the years. If they were simply killed after the war, they were wiped out half a century later. In the so-called SDS party, they believe that it is only about buying additional voters to solve the problem. If that were the case, the former government, which was in power from 1992 to 2004, would have taken advantage of that and bought the electorate, but they didn't. No! No! For this authority, too, has found that this would not bring political points, and it is even more aware of the so-called SDS, which takes advantage of any topic and adds some thought about the difficult life and great compensation for the aggressors who have been erased. That's the whole game. And this game lies on the wings of demagogy and creating facts. The so-called SDS wants to discuss the deleted as much as possible, and if the Minister needs to be interpelled to do so, that is what is done. If they're among deleted aggressors, the Minister of the Interior was your Dragutin Mate. Why didn't you convict them, lock them up, drive them out of the country?Oh, my God! In four years, not one. Minister Mate was more involved in construction, and he decided to build new premises, for which the ministry as a tenant would pay 4 million and a half euros a year instead of the 800 000 euros so far. So-called austerity measures. The number of cases of irregular status shows that it is not just a few individuals who were aggressors to Slovenia. Surely there were not 5,000 children and 10,000 women among the aggressors - Mr Grims also admits that he is asking and claiming that the fault is on the parents. And I don't know how Mr. Boris Ivanovsky's parents did it in this case. It's about the man who played Rozlet in the '60s in Kekec. These parents had a twin — one was arranged for all the papers, not Boris, and he was erased. Some consciously decided not to apply for citizenship, others did not know, and others missed their hands. None of them, however, received any decisions or notice of deletion. The time has come to finally, although late, fulfill both legal and moral obligations. Yes, Mr Jerovšek, two weeks ago, on the Committee on Foreign Policy, you asked Austria to take account of the Constitutional Court. Slovenia can do it, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u41	Mr. Mag. Grims, as your proposer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u42	The best answer to Mr Kek is already given by the Minister herself, who ends her own reply to her own interpolation with a sentence which she herself, in view of today's introduction, puts entirely on the lie. He's writing something down. An item that each of us can be sure to agree with. to close one party that burdens the Slovenian people, to show respect for the Slovenian Constitution, to the Slovenian state and to the people who may have been wronged in its creation. [[...]] With all the strong swearing about the terrible injustice everyone should have done, then the minister herself in the last sentence of her reply says, "Well, maybe." Yeah, well, we agree with that, just then let it be determined on a case-by-case basis, and if it really was someone, let it go. And in particular, in the case that you are referring to, if they were to follow the statements that were published in our media, Mr Kek, and if you read it, you would know that there was a complication because the parents put these twins in their birth book in their home republic. Conscious of why they did it, I don't know. It's not the only case. There are still many such cases, and of course they can be problematic now. But it's my parents' decision again, Mr. Keck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, as I know, you haven't discussed, so you can't get a replica. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] You haven't discussed it, so you can't get a replica. [[...]] It's the Rules of Procedure. And now we will not continue to explain the Rules of Procedure. That's how he keeps it, and that's how he explains it. If it's not true, you'll be in charge of the meeting next time. Mr. Kek has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Of course, I strongly agree with Mr Grims, except that I would add, because of course I have read this article and I will also read it a little bit: "At the age of full age, both of them have asked for a copy of the citizens' book in Skopje and an entry into Slovenia. They wrote in the application, we want to be enrolled in the mother's book in the birthplace. The procedure ran, they received a certificate of entry into a citizen's book in Skopje, and the procedure of a copy from one citizen's book to another apparently ran normal only for Bojan and Boris, as if lost, remained Macedonian. Interestingly, no one noticed it either in the passport issue or when he was receiving receipts from the home book, etc. "
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u45	I've seen two hands before. Mrs. Orzam? No, no, no. Mr. Willie Rezman. He's not here. Mr. Tanko, you want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I propose that, in the event that someone calls on a member of the opposite party and burdens him with some statements that do not stand, that a Member who wishes to object and wishes to explain the situation or to say that they do not hold this matter, that you give him the word to reply in the reply to such an interpretation. I don't think it's right that the debates are being conducted in such a way that someone over the table, as it happened yesterday, is being slandered very badly and that the President does not intervene in such cases. And when he who is hurt asks for the word to explain the matter and to give it a word. I propose that a Member who wishes to respond in an reasoned manner to the statements of a colleague he has appointed to enable him to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. You have said very well, but not according to Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which specifies exactly what a replica is and when the chairman can give a replica. I will not read again, if you want this to change, please address this wish not to the chairman who is leading the session now, but to another body. I'm going to stick to that, too, and I think I've explained myself correctly to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We've had this a number of times, and we could learn that that's true. Mr. Sylven Tiny, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u48	We switched, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u49	Excuse me. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you. I keep jumping out of this hall with my phone in my hand because I got a call from the employees of the company from Trbovlje who came to work, found a locked door and lost their jobs. There's a couple dozen of them. I wonder if any of this government knows? And I'm sure he doesn't know that. I wonder if anyone's gonna deal with this? I am sure that not, although I have already sent a letter to the competent ministers today and it is written on April 1st, and I will remember when we will know what will happen to the few ten unemployed Slovenians overnight. But good. I have heard, however, that I have heard those who oppose the truth, the lies, the inventions speak or speak. And the interlocutors demanded evidence. Somebody say the next piece of evidence is a lie. That Slovenia offered Article 13 of the Constitutional Law to all those who saw their home and their belongings and prospects in Slovenia in 1991, they refused to accept it. Tell me it's a lie. You're gonna lie about it. Secondly, many times I have heard the lie that it is not compensation for the erased, that it is some moral confessions, mistakes made by this country. It's a shame, it's a lie. Evidence. Here's the lawsuit. A lawsuit written on four sides and I quote, a lawsuit, but you know what -- it says, a payment lawsuit, lines and euros. You don't have enough of this evidence to make money. I can quote further - this action against the text prepared by the Society of the Deleted People of Slovenia or by its legal representative, Matevž Krivic. They're investing, aren't they? Under III. However, the complainant, who is able to do this on his own or has hired a lawyer, gives more details of the damage he has suffered specifically and what compensation for this requires and the lines and the euro. Point b: The applicant, who is unable to do so, requires compensation by this action, in brackets, in symbolic height, in lines of euro. Tell me again if you hope this is a lie. I can make copies so you can all see. But this is now a moral recognition for the deleted who refused to accept Article 13 of the Constitution! You know what hurts the most, and that's the ugly thing - you erased today, and I put my hand in the fire, there's not 23,000 of them, they don't want Slovenian citizenship; not that they can't get it, they don't want it! They don't want the right to work, do you understand? They won't! They won't. They don't want a temporary residence, they don't. The question is, what do they want? Money! The answer is why they do not want to: because they are at home in one of the Socialist republics of the former Yugoslavia because they have citizenship there because they are employees there and because they have all the rights there arising from that citizenship. So why are they in Slovenia? They want money, and those who I personally know, who fled, who feared war in Slovenia, went home and went from home when there was a lot worse than I could afford, returned to Slovenia. That's the truth, but you can stand on your head, and the proponents can talk a hundred times. There is no God for me, no President of the State, no President of the Government, no Minister or Minister, no State Assembly, and no Council of State to convince me that we will be correcting, by implementing what is now done, injustice. No, we're gonna fix the wrong that these people did themselves. I will not, and even if I go to prison, I will not respect the Constitution, nor the constitutional law, and I am absolutely against it! Against! This money and this good will that you say to these eraseds, or can you please show it to those eraseds who have previously called me because they have no place to turn. They don't know who to turn to. There was even violence, there were no cops. The press almost broke the camera, but there were no cops. There were no unions, there were no state representatives. There was no one for 30 or some Slovenians who lost their jobs. You all care! And you don't care about the 23,000 invented, wiped out. Yes, a maximum of 2,300, and I doubt that. Let's be honest, we're talking about arguments. I am sorry that the one who went into the application of a constitutional provision written in mind without arguments is the one who argued that this is Mrs Kresalova. And there is no other option, but that the interpolation goes on to the one that started something that, in our opinion, is wrong. And to the end. The civil initiative of illegally deleted companies, right here is a letter, which has been valid for both sides since 2004, seeking to solve the problem caused by the violent disappearance of 17,080 capital companies. You know what these people had to do? They had to turn to Mr Barroso to the European Court because Slovenia had done nothing for 17,000 violently erased companies. So, you take care of the wiped-outs who shot at us who fled, and now they're looking for a refund. You don't have to worry about these 17,000 deleted companies. And not the 200,000 who live below the poverty line. I'm sorry, once again, but I will do everything I can to prevent these executions from happening, even if it is the Minister's interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u51	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u52	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! The signatures of the Slovenian People's Party were also on the document which is the reason for today's meeting. I share the opinion of those who feel that today in Slovenia there are a number of more important problems that are destined for the development of our country, which are destined for the feelings of our citizens and citizens, for their social existence and also for the situation in society. That is why I think that this topic, which is clearly a topic dealing not only with politics, is also a legal profession and has been placed in the Slovenian political space for even a decade or more, a topic around which it is likely necessary to achieve more than just follow-up on this decision of the Constitutional Court. In front of you is a document dated this year, 13. 1. and is a document of your government service that talks about the situation and relations and also some irregular or at least in the relations which in some way cause these problems, so that both legal experts and politicians can talk in a different way, and above all, I think that in those who are not so much in this substance at home, there is much confusion in monitoring such a debate as today. Let me read these two paragraphs. Due to the inseparability of law and policy, the issue of non-implementation of a decision by the Constitutional Court, to a greater or lesser extent depending on the content, becomes, or even necessarily becomes, a political issue. Thus, it is also possible for a view of a pending decision by the Constitutional Court or, as is now the case with us, all of a sudden to change the prevailing political option, as reflected both in the constitution of Parliament and in the Government itself, which is also a majority candidate in the bill of law and in Parliament. This is also more understandable because the Government is not only the highest authority of the state administration, but also a distinctly politically enforceable function. The composition of the Government itself is politically partially coalition, which is based on a large enough and therefore dominant political options in view of the outcome of the elections. In the second paragraph, which I will not fully quote, it also speaks of the fact that we are on the one hand in countries where we have a Constitutional Court such as Slovenia, not all States of the Constitutional Court, even in some conflict where, on the one hand, the constitutional right of Members to think with their heads to adopt laws and on the other hand, some repressive form of the Constitutional Court sometimes extends to these matters. I am talking about all of this because, after all, there is no single opinion on this in the Slovenian political space and in the social space today. I think that the move that you have made, Madam Minister, is too soon, and that it might also be possible, in the spirit of the time we live in, because I agree with the quote that has already been read today, that today is the time for an agreement, a time for responsible action, so that we can try to open a dialogue around this issue and see whether it is possible to adopt such a constitutional law that would cover this constitutional decision to the extent that we do not accept new injustices with the new law. And in this part, it was also my day of signature, because I think we are making moves in this executive branch of power, which, I am not a legal expert who would judge, is not right, but certainly there is no move in today's Slovenian, very tense moment to take a step towards bringing about a polarisation that is present in this society and which is unfortunately also with such a session as today, from day to day bigger. And in this work and also that was the basic reason why my signature on this reference was made, because I think that the steps were taken in the wrong direction. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be very right that we have, at this point and at the other points where we are discussing this in Parliament, really in terms of and we are trying to do this with our own debates, and today there is certainly one of them that can be most spiced, to contribute not to make this breakthrough in our society even bigger, but to take a step closer. I want a successful debate. The result, I think, is already known. However, I am afraid, as I have already said, that this is not the result that Slovenia and Slovenians would write in one way or another, or otherwise, speaking or otherwise being born, will draw closer to tomorrow, but only separate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u53	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u54	Respectable. This part of the debate also proved that this interpretation was poorly prepared. Mr. Bogovich, you didn't sign any signatures under interpolation and today is an interpolation, not that extraordinary session you wanted to have last week. So much for the things themselves. And given the very thing, why are we even having this debate today? Because you failed to force the emergency meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy because an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly failed last week and you say that priorities are changing. You filed an interpolation, you have an investigative commission filed on the subject deleted. And now you're saying that we're changing priorities, topics that would be important at the moment and so forth. Deception, but there's something else I could say. The fact is that Mr Grims initially said that today we are discussing a matter based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, where it is the source of the whole story. Please, in the Constitutional Court's decision - but it is necessary to look into 1992, Mr Peterle has repented. Last week, he gave a public statement in an interview about the alleged error and the need to correct it, at the time he was the Prime Minister of the Government. But they did, not any official on any administration unit when I have a collection here from this administration window, not these people. Ask yourself who is ordering these officials to do this, the names and surnames of these people, but that's not the subject today and I'm not interested in this context. But I'm curious whether we're going to do our civil duty, the moral duty to recognize the time distances of the 17th, 18th years, what everyone, all legal professionals, practically recognized. And why do you abuse Mr Jerovsk, not Mr Jerovsk Jozef, but Mr Jerovsk Tonet, who says 7. 3. 2009, Events and Echoes, 15.40, all other legal experts were already in line, quoted today, agreeing to such a way of resolving the issue, but says so; even in Dr. Tonet Jerovska’s opinion, the law could still be insisted on being necessary; however, Dr. Tone Jerovšek: "We are in the course of time and, given their different, more extensive interpretation of this decision, we could say that it would be possible to issue supplementary decisions on this subject with regulated status." So what do you do now? You're talking about not treating things individually. This is done on a case-by-case basis, as everyone had to have some status prior to that, and each was checked where he was found and how he was found to have been transferred from one record to another and what was then going on. However, if we had agreed to your marriage, we would have in fact collectively erased everything and denied everyone the rights that the Constitutional Court has so specifically recognized and ordered us to settle. And even if you say that the LDS doesn't have it in the program, you're wrong, you've misread it, but if you are, you should read the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court within the time limit set by the court. Is that something else? Are we doing something else? But in the SDS programs, I didn't see you writing down that you wouldn't comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions, if you wrote that down, you would even say that you were consistent with your promises, and you didn't. We actually have work to do today. There is no need to defend Minister Kresalova, nor does she need to defend herself, for she defends herself or proves herself by what she does, that these are the real priorities and urgent tasks that are before and before this government as a minister, and that is why she must also carry them out. It is very vile that you have mentioned Mr Drnovska here three times today. Mr. Janša says, "Drnovšek was there when these things happened." Dr. Janez Drnovšek had no operational function at the time, but he helped the Republic of Slovenia to prepare at that time. It was only in 1992, after Mr Loize Peterle fell in this House, that he performed. But that was later when you made that deletion. So don't talk about it, he was there when these jobs were done, and we're all the same now and so on. It is not possible to go past taking up the protection of an administrative worker, as has been said here today, even today, it has been said that the same people who did certain things at the time are also doing what is now entrusted to them by the professions and tasks resulting from the Constitutional Court decision. So it would be wrong for us today, at this time, not to set a task to erase the black dot that is in this country. We can't fool ourselves that it's not like that. When you mention the Venice Commission and that famous electoral system, I can repeat the words that I did then, and for which I have been condemned many times, but I will not. But the Venice Commission responded to a complaint that you have tried, and you wanted the Venice Commission to condemn Parliament or the Republic of Slovenia for acting contrary to the referendum, contrary to the Constitutional Court. No, the Venice Commission did not tell you that you were right, but it stated that it was right that we had changed the Constitution, we had outplayed, as someone said, we had changed the Constitution and written it down that in Slovenia the proportional system is the one that is the closest to most, both in the National Assembly where we voted and probably wider. And for a young democracy, it was then judged to be the best. To invoke that if you were to adopt the constitutional law that you offered to solve the problems individually and to upgrade the case, it is something that is not true and it seems to me that it is more about trying to delete them once again and taking away the rights that have been established since we had a decision by the Constitutional Court. I believe that as soon as possible we will come to a final settlement of this issue and put it on the agenda for once. You, however, will be able to change priorities in many extraordinary sessions, in investigative commissions and similar ones and to put on the agenda issues that are less important than those to solve the crisis and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u55	Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor. As a proponent, not a replica, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u56	See how inappropriate it is to read all the time, which is the red thread of this diversion, which is going on by the current coalition, the Republic of Slovenia, if you think that it was a massive and deliberate violation of human rights and caused, I don't know what kind of suffering, to mention one fact. I'm going to quote so no one can say we made it up again. A fact which is completely silent in Slovenia. This is because, even after the decisions of the most professional institutions, the model, how Slovenia settled the issue of the status of Slovenian citizenship and everything else in relation to independence, which we are talking about today, has even proposed to others as an example, I quote: "The Council of Europe of Slovenia later thoroughly examined and even recommended it to the Baltic States and countries that have emerged from the former Soviet Union as a model." This, please, is in the Official Journal of Internal Affairs. There is nothing to say about this fact, but almost no one knows about this fact in Slovenia. So much for the deception we're witnessing. Another time. It was said that we actually dictate this topic. That's right, I have to say, for some expert, one, I think he really has a line. By the way, what were we reacting to? Did we order Mr. Wygle to go to Belgrade to predict the payment of damages and the issuance of decisions? Did we order Minister Kresalov to start issuing decisions without a legal basis? Did we define this as our first priority? We reacted after the coalition decided on these actions, and we reacted within the framework of the legal order of the state of Slovenia. Please don't turn this upside down, because it's not credible, not from your point of view. And today, of course, we are not talking about the decision, but we are talking about how the decision is implemented, and this is a controversial way. But it is true, and this has also been documented that a decision that is still in force, as no one denies it, can also have a very broad, professional controversy, which is relevant to today's topic, because it touches upon this way of achieving it. The fact that the decision is flawed, that it is legally disputed and therefore that it must be implemented in such a way that all these shortcomings are carried out and this is a key argument for the Constitutional Law. Once again, because Mr. SD and Mr. LDS have once again challenged the role of Mr. Janez Drnovšk, only a warning, this is an official letter from Dr. Drnovšk with his own signature, with a stamp and only quote: "The Government of Janez Janša has recently drafted a proposal for a constitutional law to resolve this issue. Despite certain concerns arising with regard to this proposal, I believe that it constitutes an acceptable basis for further negotiations between the parties. Your Honor, it's time to make a deal. Slovenia needs it, our country needs it. It is a matter of national interest and it would be good for the parties to forget the other contradictions. Sit together and try to find a solution. I'm sure you can manage enough wisdom and political power to agree. Slovenia will become a more mature and credible country with it." Signed by Dr. Janez Drnovšek. This is his political legacy, ladies and gentlemen. Some of you have gone into the sad book four times to show how dedicated you are to him, but by your actions, by doing what you are now doing to the coalition, you are destroying his political legacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u57	Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u58	It is totally contrary to that call for an arrangement that is recorded in this letter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u59	Mr. Grimes, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u60	On what grounds, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u61	Because you didn't listen because I asked you to, and you didn't stop doing it, but you kept doing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u62	You may only reach into the word on the basis of the Rules of Procedure if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u63	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u64	if we move away from the darkness. [[...]] Please stick to the Rules of Procedure, because it binds us all. If I move away from the darkness, if I speak abusively. Previously, on the other hand, the SD side used an expression that was a pure personal insult and no one reacted. Because I'm reading the documents, you're reacting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u65	Mr. Grimes, can I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u66	Because I'm reading the documents, you're reacting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u67	Mr. Grimes, can I have a word? Your implementation of the late President Drnovšk and the sad book was not my year and was not suitable for discussion in this National Assembly. I respected Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u68	This wasn't about you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u69	I'm staying at my place. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u70	It's someone who's not in the hall right now. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u71	You don't have the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u72	That's why I couldn't say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u73	You don't have a word. Mr. Anderlich, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u74	Once again, I would like to say very clearly what I said before. One of you, from your discussers, said Drnovšek was there when these things happened. Dr. Drnovšek was not present when he was deleted because he had no function. Mr. Janez Janša spoke about this and I would very much like to say it. As for the letters, as in many cases, he tried to help in a well-meaning way at the political moment that he was then able to contribute to resolving the issue. Unfortunately, he wasn't successful either. Even because of you, because you did not merely forward the law and never had the opportunity, we never had the opportunity to make decisions in the National Assembly about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u76	Mr President, I see you are under a lot of pressure now. In fact, you gave the floor to Mr Anderlich, who was not mentioned in Mr Grimes' performance for the replica. The nominee was not mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u77	Mr Jerovšek, I would like to ask for a procedural proposal, not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u78	I have a procedural proposal. He wasn't mentioned. At the same time, you gave a warning earlier and interrupted Mr Grimes, who did not deviate in any way from what is absolutely possible. And if you've been pressured to take the lead, you'd better admit it and step back behind the chairman's desk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you so much for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u80	If you do not intend to lead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you would rather withdraw. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u81	Your procedural proposal is? Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Grimes, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u82	On behalf of the proposer. I would only warn you that they do not hold to the statement that the Constitutional Law was not submitted to the National Assembly in the last term. That's not true. The government drafted the bill, then sought agreement between the parties, and several interventions were made by Minister Matei as well as others. Because, unfortunately, there was no hearing to negotiate, the government of Janez Janša put this into the procedure in time. Regrettably, then, the failure to negotiate has not resulted in a final decision on this constitutional law, so the matter is open, but the constitutional law in the same text has been reinstated in our mandate by noting that it is open to any negotiation and that the only two points in which we would insist that each case is dealt with individually and that those who have calculated or attacked the state of Slovenia are indeed unable to benefit from it. And this offer, of course, is still valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! So many lies, so many deceptions we've been listening to today and all 17 years since the problem of the wiped out is hard to digest, really. After the old Goebbels habit of "repeat the lie day after day, it will become the truth," won't it? Well, and colleagues from the opposition in 17 years you may have managed to convince part of the Slovenian public of this, unfortunately. You want to portray the poor as our national enemies, even as aggressors. If that were true, then those who knew about such aggressors and did not report them to the competent authorities should be held accountable. However, these aggressors are obviously not there, as they would certainly have been denounced by the motioners when the defence minister was their party president and the previous four years when they were in power. Therefore, I ask you not to continue this deception of the Slovenian public. The truth is the other way around. It is a group of people, mostly powerless people, who suddenly realized at the start of the war in the former Yugoslavia that they had lost their right to permanent residence in the newly created country of Slovenia. They were not invited by the State to regulate their papers. No one has been informed that his status has been compromised. Moreover, the competent authorities even gave them no decision on their permanent residence. When the deleted came into contact with the state authorities, the Slovenian documents simply destroyed them. If that's not erased, then I don't know what else to be. Moreover, in my personal opinion, it was political ethnic cleansing, revenge on those who refused to accept Slovenian citizenship. In those years I worked as a correspondent for RTV Slovenia in Belgrade, and if I wanted to come home, I had to take a bus from Belgrade via Hungary to Ljubljana. On this bus, I met a number of sad stories of people who were victims of this disappearance. There is no way I can forget a mother with two young children who traveled from Bosnia through Belgrade home to Ljubljana, where her husband, the father of the two children who were employed in Litostrom, was waiting for them. They haven't seen each other in a year. You know why? Because there was a war in Bosnia at the time, and when the lady went to visit a sick mother in Bosnia, she could no longer return to Slovenia for war operations in Bosnia. And those deleted who had such problems were nothing, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, let's go on with the lady's story. When we arrived at the Slovenian border, our border authorities, our police officers, destroyed the documents, threw her off the bus and stayed with two small children in the space between Slovenia and Hungary. All of this was happening in the democratic novelty of Slovenia, Slovenia, which left Yugoslavia mainly because it was unable to accept non-democraticism, nationalism, human rights violations, the logic that most always overcome the minority. The government of the new democratic Slovenia smoothly deleted from the list of permanent residences all those non-Slovaks who then did not choose to apply for citizenship. And by then, and also by your present logic, our enemies have been erased. According to this logic, Slovenians who searched for their bread in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland could be enemies of those countries for years and years. Simply because they wanted to remain citizens of Slovenia, even then Yugoslavia, they did not apply for German, Swiss and I do not know what nationality. But those countries of our people did not expel them, they did not delete them from the permanent residence list, they did not destroy their documents, and they did not bring them into existence and health insurance. Why not? Because it's not human, if that's how you nod. That's why it's a big shame. What is even more embarrassing is that 17 years after this deletion, you are trying to bring down a righteous and determined minister, who is finally removing this disgrace with an interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Because there are a few specific cases here, individual cases, let me tell mine. At the time, I was a doctor in Sisak, in the infirmary, and because I did half the work as a curator, and half the time I worked in medicine prevention, I had two sisters. Both sisters were Serbian. As these times drew near and the time came to settle their status, one without problems did so, like all the other 200,000 citizens of the former republics. No problem, I didn't even know, the next day she had everything arranged, accepted citizenship, children, all right. The second was unfortunate, however, that she was the wife of a JLA officer, a counterintelligence officer, KOS. And when I saw the difficulty of what to do with it - I must say that they were beautiful sisters, we were very clear, they were unique, no comments, not at human level or at professional level. We got along just fine. And they also knew Slovenian because they have been in Slovenia for many years. And this nurse whose husband was an officer of KOS once in distress, when she culminated in this tribulation to the height, said, "Mr. Doctor, I have nothing against you, but if I don't run away with my family, with my children, we will all be slaughtered by Slovenians." You heard right, you slaughtered. So, there's been some sort of atmosphere, like we're Slovenians, what's threatening. Indeed, the day before the war or two days before she was away from work, she disappeared. She's gone, her whole family's gone. Later I learned that they had moved to Krajina and then fled to Serbia. What's the state's fault for her fate? What has this Republic of Slovenia done to correct the injustice that it still lives in Serbia and has not returned? How, what should Slovenia do? All the options were to regulate his status. As I learned from three and three years ago and have spoken to her, she is waiting for a decision she will probably get in the second round, now decisions are being issued to those who have already settled the status and at the moment she gets the decision, she said, but if not, I will return, if not, to buy back a nice apartment that she had as a JLA family in Shentvid under the Jasbinšk Law, because she will have the right to do so when she gets the document, the act of the Slovenian State that she was all this time, since 1992, in Slovenia, it will be only in the next round. Here we must all be aware, the injustices were, the injustices must be corrected, but individual. There have also been examples of how the children of some parents, where one of the parents was a citizen of the other Republic, have remained, in effect, without rights and so forth. You know that this is where a new country came into being, just as a new company on the ground of a company going bankrupt is emerging. All workers must recommence, all workers from elsewhere must recommence the contract, and they must express what they want, which status to assume and the newly created state had to regulate its nationality. Also with regard to children, something has already been said by our Member of Gorenak, as the administrative unit was doing at the time, that I should read only a part of the instruction of the Republic Secretariat for Home Affairs of 25 October 1990, where it orders for persons born in Slovenia, one of the parents of which is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, etc., to be sent by mail with the following content: "We inform you that your relatives have not yet agreed on your nationality, etc. "--was sent a directive, a request, a warning "make your state, your status." It may have happened that any administrative unit has made a mistake, that where, in an unfair way, someone has unwarrantedly rejected such a role, but all legal experts dealing with this matter have warned, there have been legal possibilities for regulating the status, first of all it is necessary to understand that the legal requirement for the regulation of those who wish to remain in Slovenia and have any status, that is to say, or is the status of a foreigner with permanent residence or citizenship. All those foreigners from the former republics should do so with a very short intervention, with a very simple action. I understand a lot of those who didn't want to do it because they were scared, but it's not our country's fault that they were scared. Even for those who have been wronged of any kind, we have never taken the view that this does not correct them, of course, on the path envisaged for this and that it has been designed already in the 20th century to oppose a decision or any act of the State along the legal path, a State may be required to respond and so on. These legal pathways were not exploited by these people at the time. Of course, here I would just mention the problem that is actually at the forefront today, point 8 of the Constitutional Court Decision. The text of the document has already been named shortly after the outcome of this constitutional decision in the Official Journal, namely in 2003, by known legal experts: Rajko Pirnat, Tone Jerovšek, Franc Bučar, Mitja Žagar, Franci Grad, Igor Kavčič, Miro Cerar, Albin Igličar, Gorazd Trpin, and in which they spoke of nothing other than the implementation of this decision. Of course, the problem is that our legal order foresees both in the Constitution and in the Constitutional Court Act that the Constitutional Court has the right and the duty to warn when a law or act is adopted in contravention of the Constitution. It is incumbent on the National Assembly to draw attention to this, and it can also repeal the law or part of the law, but it cannot determine how this legal defect or this legal error should be corrected, which is the domain of the legislative branch of the government - the National Assembly. This led to the beginning of all the controversy at the time, as well as proposals for the adoption of a law of constitutional quality, i.e. by a two-thirds majority. Then there must have been a lot of pressure, I believe, pressure on these experts to change their minds. I believe this has been the case, as we read in the Minister's reply that these legal experts have withdrawn from this opinion and so, for example, I quote Madam Minister, "for example, Professor Rajko Pirnat, the dean of the Faculty of Law, has publicly expressed the view that what the Constitutional Court imposed should be done." Well, then I read an interview a few days later in the Reporter, on March 2, 2009, where Pirant replied so, because he is as a lawyer and as a person very polite, with very chosen words, never speaking black and white, is an excellent man, but he replied: "It seems to me that the Constitutional Court has slightly exceeded its role as a so-called negative legislator because the 8th point is not exactly in line with the regulation of the administrative procedure in Slovenia. What I have not taken is only a decision to issue decisions directly on the basis of the Constitutional Court judgment." So, even if the hands and legs have been broken to these experts, I doubt that they have broken, and I am sure that just such a legal opinion cannot be changed. So, from all of this, there is actually a question that is much more important than interpretation, much more important than Mrs Kresal's fate, namely, ministers come, go, change, if not sooner, after four years. This is a matter of conflict between the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitution states: "The individual act and actions of the public authorities must be based on law or on a legal provision." This is said not to be an administrative unit; the Ministry cannot issue a decision without these decisions being based on the law or the law. The Constitution also speaks of the Constitutional Court, where, in article 160, it merely states what the Constitutional Court may decide. In all cases, it is again and again to decide on the compatibility of laws with the Constitution, on the compatibility of international treaties with the Constitution, on the compatibility of acts with the Constitution and so on. For the Constitution is aware of or establishes a legal order, as the President of the Government mentioned this morning when he said that we represent democracy or we have a democracy based on respect for the Constitution and the division of power! Yes, gentlemen, the division of power. The Constitutional Court may order the National Assembly to fill this legal hole. I don't care, we can get into a problem whether there's a legal hole or not; but it can require, it also sets a deadline for the National Assembly to do so. But he doesn't have any legislative power. And what the National Assembly accepts must also be respected by the Constitutional Court. He must respect constitutional laws. He must respect the Constitution. If that's not the case, it's the end of the rule of law. There is no longer the principle of division of power. And here I wonder what the National Assembly will do when these attempts are made by the Constitutional Court. Are we the ones who adopt the Constitution by a two-thirds majority or the Constitutional Court? If it's the Constitutional Court, then we dissolve, they'll write laws, they'll determine what to do with the government. What are we here for? It's an unnecessary cost to the state! And now it weighs down whether the Assembly of State will stay away, yield to these trends, or maintain its dignity and its power, and say, No, gentlemen, so let us not go. And it will either adopt a constitutional law or whatever the government will have to do. Certainly, gentlemen, I remember the times of the previous term when it was constantly said how the National Assembly, that is, in the previous term, how it becomes a bar bar, how it becomes a servant of the legislative branch of power, how nothing works in its mind, how we do not actually have three branches of authority. We only have one, only the Prime Minister is handling everything, even all the media is in control and so on. However, we did not have such a case to leave the National Assembly to such a visit of the Constitutional Court to the questionable legality of their decisions in order to give up and say that everything is OK, we do not need a change of law, the government should do just as the Constitutional Court determines in detail. This is a much more important question, I think, than Mrs Kresalov's question. It is a question of whether we will preserve the rule of law. And Mr Jerovšek, former President of the Constitutional Court, in his opinion, which is not now written according to the daily political needs, but was written years ago, in this decision of the Constitutional Court, I quote: "He who does not see the attempts to break democracy and institutions will sleep peacefully." I would like, gentlemen, even in the opposition, not to sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. We symbolically experienced the first interpolation in this term on the world day of liars. I wish the interpellation that the SDS put in was really an april prank. The sad task of putting on ministers and ministers who implement the Constitutional Court's decisions and thus implement constitutional provisions is the unimaginable in modern parliamentary democracy. Interpellation must, of course, be put in the context of current political developments in the country. I cannot help but feel that some have not yet come to terms with the outcome of last year's national elections. This is particularly true of the greatest defeat of these elections. The opposition's plan or a more graphic, pious wish of the opposition is to overthrow the government. This is, of course, a perfectly legitimate desire, but never before has the opposition to this business taken on as early as the present one. It has not yet been a good 100 days of peace for the Government, to which the government has not referred, we have already witnessed in the National Assembly an opposition offensive with extraordinary meetings, obstructions, blackmail and conditionalities and, of course, the crowning of the opposition's work - the interpretation of the Interior Minister Katarina Kresal. In addition, referendums are being announced. To date, no interpolation has been as rapidly invested as it has been in this mandate. In the previous term, the opposition submitted the first interpellation against the Minister of Culture only two years after the elections. The opposition would therefore like to take advantage of every opportunity, especially the great economic and financial crisis, to undermine the current government and force early parliamentary elections. It's not a choice of means and it's trying to force it somehow. What injustices have occurred with the erased, the most illustrative example that has been mentioned today, the case of Boris Ivanovsky. This is the young player who played Scared Rozlet in Kekè's film. Of course, Mr Ivanovski had "happiness" - of course, the word "happiness" was written in the slogans because it was Rosle. Ivanovski said, quote: "If Sunday hadn't helped me in 1994, I would still be a foreigner in my own country. My country stole two years from me, and Sunday brought me back to a normal life." Boris and his twin brother were born in Ljubljana, Mother of Slovenia and Father of Macedonia. Their parents enrolled them in the Macedonian National Book, and at their age in 1974, their parents applied for entry into the Slovenian National Book. After official negligence, he was trained only for his brother, and the actor of Kekce's tricks Rozla was erased in 1992. The Council failed him in July 1992 when he wanted to change his ID card. The official destroyed the card and said: "You are not Slovenian, you are not a citizen of Slovenia!" - although he has lived in Slovenia since his birth. We could read in the paper that Boris is still unemployed today. During the years of the era, he could not continue his schooling. He was no longer insured, without social security and without income. He hasn't gone to a doctor in two years, even though he had a serious problem. He went to the dentist only once when the pain was unbearable, and he had to pay out of his own pocket. He was threatened with exile from the state. Nobody thought of him. According to an article in the newspaper, he was called only by the famous actor Polde Bibič, his film partner Bedanc. Another thing that has been mentioned many times today. You always mention the citizenship offered, although you know well that we are not talking about citizenship, but about the permanent residence that has been taken away from the deleted. This is similar to the fact that our natives, working in Germany for example for years, have been deprived of their permanent residence status and thus prevented from continuing to live and work abroad, but we do not expect them to give up their Slovenian citizenship and to take German citizenship. To conclude, I would like to say that I am in favour of Minister Kresal because I believe she is doing her job well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u90	Madam Minister, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In one thing, I agree with the interviewer, Comrade Grims, and I think that this is the case, and in the case of this interpretation, the whole issue is mainly about human ethics. Because I am sure that every right is based on what is right, and if something does not seem right to us, of course we will always look in the law and, if we want, of course we will find things that will answer us or will not. Who is the one who teaches us human ethics? It's taught by our parents, our fathers, our moms, our grandmas. My grandmother was born in 1916 in Opava, Czech Republic. The father, the military doctor, the Slovenian-Croatian-Slovak roots and the surname and mother of the German from Dresden. If the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and later the Kingdom of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs had been in force, similar legislation as was in force in Slovenia's independence, my grandmother would never have been a Slovenian citizen, could never have married my grandfather, the son of a Russian war prisoner, an illegitimate prisoner, and Korošica, whose maiden name I bear proudly and with joy. In other words, I wouldn't be here and I wouldn't be here. It would probably feel good to someone in the National Assembly, but I believe most people don't. Because unlike my colleague, Janez Janša, I do not believe that Slovenia was established in the 1990s. The history of parliamentaryism and statehood on these soils is longer than the political history of Janez Janša. I believe that someone would like the history of this country to begin with him, but perhaps it will also stop with him, and I, of course, believe that it has started much before me and that many of me will still be as it should be, if not better. The fact that the Slovenians were part of other major countries and empires shows, after all, the surnames we meet in the National Assembly. It will be difficult to say that Slovenian surnames Grill, Irgl, Ziherl, Grims, Mencinger, Weber, Wygl, Gantar, Bebler, although it is natural for us that the coastal and minority Members are written by Battelli and Juri, that the Prekmur Members and the minority Members are written by Gönz and Györek, it will have to be admitted that this is probably some of the things that are also part of our history, and if we deny them. Nothing bothers us that Petrol leads Mr Krizenovski, that the President of the Prešeren Fund is Mr Skrušny, that my fellow Member is Mr Posedel. It is not surprising if the two Slovenian cities are run by Mayor Kangler and Šrot, but it is strange if the other two cities are run by Mayor Jankovic and Popovic. Why? Why would that be so weird? I firmly believe that the main cause of today's interpolation is latent nationalism, xenophobia and racism, whether we admit it or not. Therefore, it is also possible that the deletion took place in the way it happened. The Holocaust explorer Sigmund Baumann is researching how the Germans changed during World War II into such a cold and destructive machine. It points out that three conditions must be met in order for this to happen. Violence must be authorized by state offices, tasks and works must become routine, in short, precise, and victims of violence must be dehumanised by ideological definitions and indoctrinations. Therefore, I say that - because I see all these things in Slovenian deletion, in short: the law was adopted in such a way that it allowed; the instructions were sent to officials; and, worst and worst, politics, part of it created psychological conditions by ideological definition and indoctrination for employees in administrative units and other state authorities to act accordingly. Therefore, I say that according to their logic of action and the legal structure of the holocaust and erasure are similar. It seems completely irrelevant to me, after what I have just said, to talk about non-compliance with the Basic Constitutional Charter about the playing of the Constitutional Court or the unlawful enforcement of its decisions and so on, because I claim that all these acts are the cause of all these acts here, as I have described. Mr Janša conditionally admitted that even if it were already a matter of weighing the interests of the whole country while the population was being wiped out for the five average Slovenian municipalities, priorities should be weighed. But in the field of human rights on which our country is founded, any weighting of priority would mean that Mr Janša would still be eating meatloaf and ice cream in Roška. And to whom it is unclear, nothing will help him - well, obviously, because given the practice that I have been trying as a "fresh" Member in this House in recent months, I do not see exactly what kind of light at the end of the tunnel. In view of my multinational blood count - I'll just say, because maybe this eugenic expression is closer to someone - but I can't agree that in this case it is a dilemma between patriotism and it, as it has already been exposed. Despite everything I have told you about my family, you will rarely hear me say, Tržič, Čedada, Trbž, Šmohorju, Podkloštr, Veliovac, Celovac, Ivniku, Monoster, how different from the Slovenian name. I'm not sure that everyone here knows what kind of places I've mentioned. And I think that rather than all the slanders that we have heard here about the deleted, many of them, especially those who have experienced a premature and tragic end because of the operation of the Slovenian State, would have deserved more in this national assembly one respectful minute of silence. I believe it's hard to post a festival after 17 years of certain things to admit. I'll be alone, as I've slept peacefully so far, sleeping peacefully after this interpolation. I'm not sure those who designed this deletion would sleep peacefully, at least they shouldn't. However, I do not believe that this burden should be imposed on all of his performers who did so on an official basis for the reasons I described earlier. Even though Mr Gorenak quotes Mr Šter as saying that these people do not deserve this, in short, the deletion of ethnic cleansing, I would say that they may indeed not be, and Mr Šter certainly do; and Mr Fatiguek, Mr Gantar, what was still the gentlemen's electoral responsibility with Peterlet's principle in addition. And, if we are already demagogic and we are talking about compensation, I regret that Mr Bavčar is losing all his assets because I have seen this as the only possibility that the state of Slovenia could ever sue back all the damage that he himself, among others, has caused to everyone affected by this deletion. It should also be said that, at the outset of the above mentioned reasons, some officials were delighted to do what they were doing. Otherwise, I cannot imagine the quote that Mr Gorenak also gave from the mouth of one of the Idrian administrative workers, "they didn't want to hear what was better for them." What a paternalistic statement. We do not believe that people are themselves capable of making decisions if they are full of age and that they know for themselves what is better. Who can put themselves in this role so that someone can determine what is better for someone and what is not? I feel so sad that this debate is even going on. It's me, considering it was mentioned earlier. From Mr Saiovic "the true end of Celovska" on the occasion of the events of independence: I am elected at the right end of Celovska, at its beginning, in the lower Šiška, as well as the distinguished Minister and fellow Member of Parliament Rop, and at this end of Celovska there is no dilemma, what is right and what is right, this consent is three-quarters, plebiscite, if you want. I doubt that I will ever again push the "again" button in this National Assembly with greater joy and with greater faith of eligibility than against the proposal for this interpretation. And I express my full support to the Minister and my respect for what she is doing, because I think that our generation, also our colleague Yuri Jr., Frangež, Levanič and others, is not to blame for the things that happened when we went to school with some of us who later couldn't go to college because the country erased them, while others went cowboys, according to Mr Gorenak, when they walked the streets with guns, I sincerely hope that as uniformed police or hunters, because in any other case it would be strange and illegal. I think that this conclusion of this chapter, I hope, will in some way soften the stain that this country has, because in its history, although there has already been some parliamentaryism in Austria and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and even some elements of statehood, we have never made the same decision as we have for the past 18 years, and at that time this country has not committed any serious human rights violations as it has. And this nation doesn't deserve this stain, we don't have some colonial past, we've never gone to conquest wars, and this is something that we have to admit as soon as possible and fix as soon as possible, because I think that this latent fascism that I was talking about at the beginning has no domestic right in Slovenia, and many others have a domestic right. I think it is high time that we do this, if we can, this afternoon, so that we can watch the football game in peace, cheer for Zahovič, Fileković, Dedic; in short, for all Slovenian citizens, good athletes, as we have so far cheered for Milić, Bečirovic and anyone else in basketball, football and other sports. This country is too small to allow itself to be part of its potential, and this applies to all minorities: religious, ethnic, national, sex preference and so on. Because without unity we will achieve nothing and there is none of ours that would not deserve all respect, and even those who have been erased are ours. However, if someone does not yet have them, it is high time to get to know them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I didn't hear you, sir. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u92	Mr President, I think it is important to point forward to insults, violations, hate speech. Because you're as deaf as you are this week in this session deaf for all the insults, for all the prostitution, all the hate speech. For this is clearly a project in this session, especially in connection with today's treatment. Mr Rožej appointed a member of the Slovenian territorial defence or police during the war as a cowboy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u93	Give me a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u94	And they went one cowboy, and he showed at Gorenak, as if being a police member was something bad, as if it were the Wild West, as if it were an illegal doing, such a mockery of the invaders [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u95	Jerovšek, I understand your warning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u96	Mr. Run, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u97	I understand yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u98	react to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u99	A warning that I should pay attention to the hate speech. [[...]] I'll do the same when you do the talking. Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. And I'm gonna stick to what I have written so there won't be any replicas. I come from or continue from that story that I have a very good last name at the moment. It's Richter, it's real good, it's hard, it's regulatory, and when you talk about the origin of your parents, you'd probably have some problems with the correct endings of those last names right now. But like I said. Members of the opposition have been persuading us throughout the day why the constitutional decision on deleted persons does not have to be enforced or, last but not least, you are also regulating the new status of deleted persons, which would threaten the Slovenian state. By placing the interpretation and the views expressed, you are even setting new standards in the concept of the rule of law, as you said earlier, Mr Tsukjat yourself, standards of non-compliance with the rule of law. Therefore, allow me to ask you, from the people selected, some very specific questions on the subject deleted. Why are you so married, why are you so disturbed by the chosen ones? What are they threatening you with? Why do you remain cold and, finally, relentlessly cruel in the face of shocking stories of people who have lost their basic social rights? I find it very difficult to believe that shortsighted political recalculation can be the reason for such a painful hate speech that some of you have had. Nor can I believe that you abuse narrow party interests for the misfortune of people whose country has been violating human rights for 17 years. I find it hard to believe that you are so recklessly manipulating the compensation data, and you are even here today terrorizing people who are fighting for their survival every day. About the damages that haven't happened yet. But you may forget to say that at the time of the denationalisation of the Roman Catholic Church you donated about 220 million euros, and these happened, the euro that went from the taxpayer's money. You are also forgetting to mention that in the last sigh of your rule you have given over all legal standards with the conclusion of the Blaze Island, our cultural heritage, which is now likely to serve as the stuffed pockets of the Blessed Priesthood. These are some of the specific numbers and actions you've done, and now you're threatening our people with damages that haven't happened at all! Today's attempt to interpellate the Minister of the Interior therefore sees it as another attempt to prevent the status of the deleted. With the proposal to set up an investigative commission, you just confirm that you don't think you're blind to stop, and I hope you're aware of what you're stopping: this is our biggest act, this is the constitution. Two constitutional provisions and, of course, a number of indirect constitutional decisions impose upon the Ministry and thus upon the Minister to issue supplementary decisions and draw up an appropriate law. There is no legal doubt as to how this issue must be resolved, nor can it be. That is why the Minister's determination supports the profession, is supported by colleagues in the government, is supported by non-governmental organisations, and therefore supports the growing numbers of people behind it. Therefore I tell you, from the people of the chosen ones, who stop this constitution, or not at the last, that it will not be otherwise understood: let them pause a little, think. You may also think carefully about where justice is and what is right and what is the right solution. I would expect you to warn, warn, urge us to do something together - do, not just talk, something good for people, for the Slovenians who look at us and listen. And also for those who suffered for 17 years of injustice. Perhaps then you will see that rejection of today’s interpretation is good for all of us, or perhaps not least our responsibility for what happened in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, I didn't understand that your opinion would be quoted. You know very well that you led the National Assembly, that the replica explained the wrong understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u102	Mr President, I know what it is like to hold a meeting, and it is important to be careful how some speak. Mrs Richter, it is not true that I have said how unnecessary it is to resolve the issue of the deleted, those who have experienced injustice, I never said that. But I was talking about how to act only by a decision of the Constitutional Court, without a legal basis, is unconstitutional. Indeed, even the situation at the time was legal, it was possible to regulate its status and there were possibilities of complaint and appeal proceedings, at the time and at the time. If they were unable to do so, they should be corrected. That at the time the matter was such that, at the time, these people could have avoided these inconveniences, I should have read the decision that the Ministry of the Interior had sent to all administrative units on 3 September 1992 where it said: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the independent laws of the Republic of Slovenia have taken full account of all the rights of citizens of the republics of the former Yugoslavia deriving from international conventions and inter-State treaties..." and so on. And he also talks about how to deal with conflicts or in the event of alleged injustices. Nobody but Mirko Bandelj is signed. I certainly ask you, when we speak, to suggest that there will be no misunderstandings and need for replicas, let us take into account that no one has ever talked about the fact that injustices should not be corrected and that it is necessary to bend in front of them. The problem is to give some benefits to those who have experienced injustices and to those who have not experienced any injustices but may even have caused them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Tuckati, we both know that this was not a replica, but given the content of the debates we have - nothing wrong. You've just used up this opportunity. The next word is Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Some of you today refer to patriotism, patriotism, as a reference to perpetuation in interpolation charges. I ask you kindly, colleagues and colleagues, from the opposition in particular, if you really love our country and our country, do not do to it what you are doing today. Maintain at least a little dignity, and do not go out of your way to this extent, where it becomes so clear that you are not entitled to human rights, that you are not entitled to equality before the law, although you claim otherwise, and that you are not in fact in favour of the rule of law, even though you are declaring otherwise. However, respect for the principle of trust in the rule of law and the principle of legal certainty does not imply losing words, obviously, today. I do not know how you can ignore in all your patriotism all the criticisms expressed in your various analyses, reports and recommendations by the various international organisations and their bodies that claim, supervise and ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let me quote only some of the sentences in these reports, recommendations and assessments of the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, for example, the July 2005 recommendation of the Human Rights Committee says that he is still concerned - this is the Committee - "for persons who still cannot regulate their situation in a State Party." This State Party is Slovenia. "The State Party should endeavour to regulate the legal status of all citizens of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia who currently live in Slovenia." Then: "The committee is concerned about the disappearance of the citizens of the former Yugoslavia because their names were deleted from the Register of Residents in 1992." The report or recommendation of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination makes sure that many of the persons who have not acquired Slovenian citizenship still face administrative obstacles to meeting certain legal requirements. He is also concerned that a significant number of people living in Slovenia since independence without Slovenian citizenship have in some cases been deprived of their pension, without housing and without health care and other rights. Then we come to the bodies of the Council of Europe. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe in his follow-up report, two years later, when he has already found irregularities in relation to deleted persons in his 2004 report, calls on the Ministry of the Interior to immediately replace these acts or issue acts to ensure permanent residence for all these people and the resulting rights. And he says, "The current situation reflects insufficient respect for the rule of law in Slovenia." Then we have the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the resolutions, the reports of the Advisory Committee under the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which says that the status of these persons is unresolved, which causes serious problems with respect to the exercise of social and economic rights of persons, including the right to education and effective participation. And then the European Commission against Racism. The third 2006 report. To this end, it strongly recommends that the Slovenian authorities, in good faith and without further delay, implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of April 2003. This includes the immediate re-implementation and completion of the process of awarding supplementary decisions that ensure the retroactive effect of the rights to permanent residence and the adoption of a legal framework that would allow those deleted persons who have not yet guaranteed permanent residence or Slovenian citizenship to resume their rights in the fairest and generous manner possible. This latter is certainly irrelevant, for calling on this country and some of us to be generous in doing so is indeed something that is totally inappropriate. What I have quoted is said by the most important international organisations and their bodies, which are based on the principle of respect for and consolidation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and these are the institutions where we wanted to enter our independence as soon as possible and also to commit ourselves to respect for human rights, plural democracy and the rule of law. Today, however, you obviously have no problem ignoring their demands and recommendations. We don't care. But we are ashamed because we are patriots and we are patriots, and therefore we do not want to do to our own country what you do to it. We are ashamed, however, that Slovenia has received such justified and serious criticisms. By the way, today he is visiting Slovenia, including the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Terry Davis, who will have the opportunity to hear and find out a number of things. But it doesn't matter to you, you're acting on the principle of "what they can do to us." Today we have even been given an attempt to evaluate these criticisms and the demands of international institutions, an attempt to slander some of the people you do not agree with, which you always use when the content of the message does not suit you. And then some also quote various constitutional texts, such as the Basic Constitutional Charter, the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter and even the Constitution, which ensure and ensure that all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia are guaranteed the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of their nationality and without any discrimination. The Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Charter deals specifically with those who, although nationals of other republics had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the day of plebiscite - and these are now under way. And when, in the future, you fear that in neighbouring countries, our relatives will be discriminated against, for which you will, of course, have legitimate reasons, you will remember what you are saying today and here. And as this interpellation is kind of shameful, of course, it is also some kind of recognition to Mrs Kresalov's Minister, who is the first after so long, who has decided to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Today you also mentioned some of them that you disqualified when their arguments could not count. Among these was mentioned Professor Dimitrievich, who is still a Serb from Belgrade. In doing so, you have not said that this is the same Mr Dimitrievich, who was very distressed by the previous authorities in Serbia and suffered a lot because of this and because of his views. Well, by the way, which of course doesn't matter, he's married to Slovenka; you shut that up too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Your Honor! So it is true that I have been emotionally expressing the opinion and position of the Group of Members, and I admit that a person could be angry about the matter. This is not the case if you have heartache when the rule of law is being attacked, the fate of our citizens, who are denied the right by some to comply with a decision of the Constitutional Court to correct some of the injustices committed by the State. In doing so, he specifically attacks the Minister on compensation, although he does not deal with it. The proponents of the interpretation of public finances, which is supposed to be broken, suffering, and everyone else in the country, express great fear, will become even poorer as a result. It's "loading" that doesn't belong in this building. And I have to say that the only thing that I think about and somehow calms me down is that, in fact, everyone doesn't mean it or don't want it, but they just have to say it the same way, they have to think about unacceptable interpretation, which requires the responsibility of a minister who wants to respect the rule of law and the decision of the Constitutional Court. No legal experts shall be able to offer arguments that a constitutional decision is not being implemented, but shall have any address. That's my belief. Because, if so, then just wake up some debate by real legal experts who are "ours" and will already be able to say that this is not what is right, and you have to spit and of course not do it. What happens to people, we don't care. And that's the other thing that's working me hard. No one wonders how people feel when they're thrashed. And as for public finances to go forward, no worries when it comes to redressing injustices and compensations to others you prefer. And that is what speaks against your submenu, that equality must be respected before the law. When your party president, Mr Janez Janša, mentioned the victims of war violence - you did not have any obstacles in view of the majority in Parliament to adopt the law as you would and in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. If you had not done so, the only obstacle was the fact that there was some possibility that the coalition would have been in trouble because they would have come out if they had fulfilled your intent on content; that the employees of the invader could become victims of war violence. And that was the only obstacle and you were afraid of voting on that basis. It is good that you did not do this because it would be a very serious thing; but it is interesting to those who are here to be opposed, for example, to our country and to our conquest, and to say that among them are criminals and those of the JNA - it is interesting that you, who are the proponents and who have had an internal minister who could half them, have not come on the day with their identity, faces, names and surnames, that we also know who they are and who may disturb the fact that it is necessary to correct the wrongs. In most cases, all others certainly have nothing to do with our opposition to self - conquest or otherwise. Last but not least, if all 25,000 and something were against independence, it would still be illegal, and none in this country that understands the concept of the rule of law would be able to account collectively and in such a collective manner with children, women, poor workers, those who have come with the belly behind the bread into our country and who have suddenly landed on the list of undesirables without knowing what is going on and then have an accident that is still going on. Shame on our country. On this side, which would be against these things getting settled, I will never stand up. They told me, "not too much about it because it's unpopular, because DeSUS can get fewer votes, and you'll never be elected again." I have to say that in the election campaign, I said, not once on the direct question of how I see this thing, what I am saying today: "The decision of the Constitutional Court is what needs to be respected and I will support this matter in the way it says and nothing else if I get one vote or none!" And I'm doing the same today. Of course, the fear of running for office in the next election is over, because at my age, no one knows if he'll still be alive tomorrow. But there is a modest possibility that I will be with you when the elections are held, and then I will say that it was a brave act of a minister. That it was the right decision that we and the entire parliamentary group stand for and support it. And again when we're talking about finance. If there had ever been any compensation, it would have been much easier to pay any compensation, not just those, but not necessarily, and it is possible that they would be limited if anyone ever got caught up in it. It would also be much easier to keep all the other damages and public finances if your boss ever told you where about a billion dollars or a mark of "smuggling" with a weapon that was proven and that money went unknown. If he knew, it would be right to say; if he didn't know, it's sad because after the testimony of the interrogators, the money was counted in the defense minister's office at the time. And it's sad, too, but you don't care where a billion weapons have gone, even though the trucks written in the book What can you do to us are listed by registration numbers. I mean, it's right that you care about public finances, but let's think about everything, not just some public finances. I have a few more words to say at the expense of the proposed constitutional law. The constitutional law offered by Minister Mate, when he came to our parliamentary group, we assessed for absurd jesting in the Constitutional Court's decision, because after what was written there, only a few of them in some complicated process could try to solve their problem; never and a large majority would. That is why we have rejected the debate on this subject. Of course, no other option has been offered by the coalition in its previous composition and no other option has been tried to regulate the situation of those who have lived in difficult and difficult situations. That is why it is not an honour for us to have participated in that government; I have had great difficulties with it myself and, in this regard, was publicly sanctioned by the President of the then government, for he has put me on the disgraceful pillar of those who undermine unity in the coalition, even though I have had huge arguments for this and my vote, which he was not satisfied with, has been affixed more than 10 times by the Constitutional Court; as the Constitutional Court has, of course, decided that a constitutional decision must be implemented here and now in this country and that the wrongs committed should be corrected if any of them like it or not. When the candidates talk about a referendum, I immediately say that often with a referendum they try to call for help on the road, on the street, on the people who know little or nothing, or do not understand enough to be able to make a sovereign, fair and fair decision. Even in the elections! That's lynch for me. Human rights are decided by the Court and the Constitutional Court, and this is determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, they cannot be approached by any referendum and no street offered here, and I understand it, as the proponents think, like the lynching that has actually happened in the Wild West, but since then there has been a lot of water there, and it is right that similar exhibitions today and here can no longer reach the green branch. In other words, Mr Grimes also said that people, because they were transferred from one list to another, had nothing actually happened. This is painful thinking, because we know and it has been proven that they were sick, hungry, living illegally, without contact with families and so on, children were unable to go to schools, kindergartens and so on. They were without personal documents and identity, and I ask you where your Christian mentality is, for the Christian beliefs of Christians cannot be such that they refuse to help such and so affected people, regardless of whose writing they are, where they come from and where they want to go or do not want to go. And that's the problem. I am afraid of this and I am concerned that if this should be enforced, those who do not agree with us or even publicly oppose us and hope to say so will experience similar sanctions if the like get their strength back in hand. I hope they never get two-thirds so they can change the constitution, because that's when we get the "sad" future. I'll never agree with that, and most of my colleagues won't. I don't think everyone does. And that's right. As regards the one-off allowance mentioned by Mr Janez Janša. Yes, if you were honest and if the times were as different as they were, you would get absolutely our support, although it's not a good solution and it's also been rejected by a pensioner with the ZDUS at the head, so that in fact you didn't stand up to their interests, but to someone else. Your interest in this addition last year before the elections was: elections. Something else happened, strangely, that we got votes from that address, not you. But I would like to say that, because our actions were evident, I immediately say that this proposal is not socially oriented, and I have expressed this concern at the time of the negotiations. For this reason, I am pleased that we have given up such an allowance as was first agreed to, in exchange for the addition of all the poor in this country, not only selfishly, as we have been told by some, only pensioners. This is a fairer solution, and I believe it will happen this year. For even in the crisis, solidarity with those who need it must not be extinguished, and we will support all such proposals, not just this year, even in the coming years of the coalition. Of course, I have experienced some joy today when someone mentioned the early elections. It's not gonna happen. We'll be doing what we think is right for four years. Then, of course, the electorate will be back to give us a plus or minus. I hope that at this time they will most understand that your thinking is completely past them, that today this "loading" is aimed at gaining political points, which once "burned", but I hope that it will never "start" again. And in this sense, I believe that many of you need to think about it. I'm glad that someone will find themselves who would eventually admit that he didn't mean what he said today. But I understand everything because you don't have much freedom of thought. It's just a deal, and that one has to come true if there's no consequences. Something like this won't happen to us as long as I'm around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes as a proponent? Mr. Grimes as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u108	Something is happening in a democratic country that should not have happened. The referendum and referendum decision were just said to be something the street does. You know, those who say that must be aware of the dimensions of such statements. For these are the electorates and the electorates, the citizens and the citizens of this country, the ones whom you have been proving all day today that you have forgotten, except when you reach into their pockets and expose their accounts. And these are the same electorates and voters who have led the individual parties to a certain election outcome. Was that the street then your way? Because I would remind you that this very party, which was now so loud, in particular DeSUS, received an extremely large number of votes and apparently on the basis of the promise that they would pay the pensioner's allowance at the beginning of the year and then - you also promised a pension of 1,000 euros. Of these promises, what remains has proved to be at the time of the vote in the National Assembly. Of course, there was no sense of socialism at the time, there was no memory of preeminent promises. At that time it was with your voices to be overthrown - and be ashamed of you. Shame on you! For with this you have renounced the help of those who need it most, pensioners and pensioners with low pensions, who would be the immediate one that could be possible, when you have divided the tens and hundreds of millions of euros in this act, you have completely forgotten the pensioner. And why you have forgotten, it is also clear to everyone who is looking at you today: because you have other priorities. These include the issue of decisions deleted by means of all costs incurred by such decisions: the issuance of decisions, judicial proceedings, indirect costs of judicial proceedings, including legal tariffs, and, in the final stage, compensation; and for this there will be money. And this, ladies and gentlemen, proves that it is precisely these electorates and voters, of whom you are so insultingly expressing yourself in DeSUS, when you speak of them as being the street, in their view, that the last elections were a major electoral fraud. But do not imagine that people will forget this in the next four years and the bill for your doing, believe me, you will receive it in the next election! What was the outcome of the referendum, however, here was the publication of the official page and against such regulation, as is now being revived, the issue of so-called deleted at the time was voted on by 94.68% of all those who attended the referendum. This is also the best answer for those who are constantly waving a petition today. Indeed, there are hundreds of signatures of extremely well-settled people who have very much money and who also have a concrete political and material benefit from this behavior of yours. But here it voted and in this way gave some very clear political message, much clearer than one petition, about half a million people, and about half a million people voted against it. To be precise, four hundred and thirty-seven thousand citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have declared themselves against such regulation. That's the best answer to what you're doing today. And this is a democratic answer, because direct decision-making is a democratic standard that is worthy of being maintained and defended, and in particular, which it respects in a democratic country that is a democratic country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Before I give Mr Žnidaršič a word for the replica, I would like to say that he has visited us and is accompanying our work on the balcony as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Davis, my warm greetings on behalf of everyone and my well-being in Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] Mr. Žnidaršič, you have the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I'm sure it's Mr Grimes' democratic standard. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u111	They're warning me you weren't mentioned. Just like before, Mr. Cuckati. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u112	Bill, Bill!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u113	It is also quite clear to you that you were the only one who spoke about the referendum about the matter concerning you. [[...]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u114	So, Mr Grimes considers it a democratic standard to be a smooth lie that we promised a unique addition in the election campaign. That's not true! He doesn't have that evidence, and he won't find it because he wasn't there. Even less to be promised this year, in January and so on. This was a later agreement, and if Mr Grims doesn't know it, he has no right to lie here to embarrass our parliamentary group and the party in front of our voters. And I repeat, we will be against this interpretation, regardless of the election outcome in four or three and a half years or so, and we are not interested in what anyone thinks, we are convinced that the rule of law must be respected, including the decision of the Constitutional Court. And because of this you can still use such lies, you have the right to lie, but you will also have to think sooner or later about how the voters disqualify those who disagree with you. A lot of other things have been lied to on my account, including how many laws I've backed. But that's the way you have it, and we don't have it, and it won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u115	No offense, Mr. Cuckoo has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u116	Mr President, I would suggest that after you have been released and will no longer guide you to look at Mrs Richard's magnetogram. And if I've been clearly named there, I'd ask you to make a public apology. I've abused that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'll take a look at the magnetogram. Mr Grimes asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u118	I'm just summarizing what we both said and what we both agree on. You received the votes on the basis of a promise of 1,000 euros of the lowest pension, then you reduced it to one supplement and you hit that supplement with your own vote on the budget rebalance. That's what they say. It was a complete electoral fraud.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u119	Mr. Grimes, are you done? Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u120	Mr. Chairman! I can conclude from the debate that I did not follow the agenda well and that we are talking about pensions today. In this case, I suggest if you could serve us with the material at the point, because I was ready for the second point, but obviously this point is not on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Your warning is justified. If you and anyone else could help me focus on the deleted, I'd be grateful. However, I would not like to start listing colleagues and colleagues who have talked about issues that are not related to deleted, because the list would be a very long one. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So today we are discussing the work and responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mrs Katarina Kresal, who unfortunately is not currently seen in the Chamber. We are discussing, for reasons of inadequate enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision and the abuse of the Ministry for political purposes, in order to ignore the outcome of the referendum on the technical law on so-called deleted and, inter alia, because of inequalities before the law. First, I must say that, I think about three months ago, we voted on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and equal opportunities, where, of course, the coalition has a majority and not the opposition, in relation to the deleted, so that the National Assembly can adopt a constitutional law. And not just that. This decision has gone much further. We voted that each case of deleted cases should be dealt with separately, individually and that all those who damaged the independence of the State of Slovenia were then speculated, calculated. The decision further stated that it should actually limit or exclude the payment of compensation to so-called deleted persons. And here, the distinguished Minister, is probably listening to us where this decision has also been taken by your Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. However, what currently bothers me most and gives me some bad taste in your work is that you are applying double criteria. John Janša, the predecessor, spoke of this. On the one hand, I am talking about the unresolved problem of the so-called deleted for 17 years, but on the other hand, we have on the other hand a substantial, substantial number of years, more time inconvenient and unsolvable status of victims of war violence, and this, in my opinion, certainly sets double criteria for the current ruling authorities. I am convinced that from the point of view of the protection of human rights, of which the distinguished Minister speaks many times and has also spoken in the introduction, both subjects are equally important. Unfortunately, however, I cannot go beyond saying that, unfortunately, since they have been in power, I will say to Pahor's Social Democrats that the Liberal Democracy, and so on, again, of course, is that some very determined, in this case, the Minister of Home Affairs, are calling themselves so-called deleted. Of course, with the same determination, they do not set themselves for all those who were deliberately executed after World War II and are extremely large. Several thousand Slovenians were deliberately destroyed and definitively deleted from Slovenia. On the one hand, therefore, the Ministry of the Interior is uncompromising in issuing a decision, thereby also laying the groundwork for them to be able to make reparations to those who have been erased for their return, while completely forgetting and ignoring the victims of war violence. In the light of the treatment of equal opportunities and the respect for human rights, we could even say that victims of war violence and their family members have, for a considerable period of time, a formal irregular status, but that is not discussed. There's talk, but there's never any political will to solve it. And in my view, we should certainly consider this as a priority. Therefore, unfortunately, once again, I must say that there are clearly two criteria under the authority of Pahor. Those who acted contrary to Slovenia's independent aspirations in 1991 have the advantage, and despite the calls to regulate their status, they did not do so. But not because it would not be possible for them, but because they calculated because they speculated and because they did not sincerely want it; and here I feel the main problem. However, I must point out here that I will not be guilty of all those who may actually have been wronged within this issue, and these people need to be looked at individually, individually. That is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and myself, I advocate the adoption of a constitutional law to resolve the situation of these people. Unfortunately, I cannot participate in this coalition plan project alone, which, by the way, was not mentioned in any pre-election promises, but this is again a calculation of the parties who knew why they had not announced this before the elections. And then when a man comes to power, things change, obviously. I am also of the opinion that if there is compensation, there will be a possibility of violating human rights for other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And here is actually some kind of elitist, self-sufficient, I will say, exclusive policy of the interior minister, just for a narrow circle of people, where the main interests, power, influence and capital are important. Why am I saying this? In particular, because the Minister, I think recently, about a week ago, said that the Slovenian Democratic Party, or the former government of Janez Janša, led the so-called or not-so-called, but indeed that it led the domestic policy. And here you are, the distinguished Minister of Home Affairs, asking what the domestic policy is really for you. Is it possible that at the beginning of our term of office we cut off the stickers and thus cut off the additional cost to the people? For you, perhaps this domestic policy is that we have reduced the tariffs for lawyers, and now that you have come to power, you are raising them again? Is it a domestic policy to provide all high school students with a subsidized hot meal, or is it that we may have introduced free textbooks and introduced the vignettes you're teasing again today? It is also obvious to you that domestic policy is also that people at the referendum on technical law have almost decided plebiscitely how to regulate the situation of so-called deleted persons. It's true, it's all obviously domestic politics. But obviously these things don't matter to you, it doesn't matter how people see you today watching this session, when they see people making decisions, which is probably the result of damages, and on the other hand, we have people who are unfortunately hard to survive from day to day. But this obviously doesn't matter to you, because you're doing it contrary to what you said yourself, domestic policy, some kind of elitist policy for a certain narrow circle of people, with a specific purpose, for your own benefit and your own self-promotion. I regret that, as Minister, you place great emphasis not only on human rights, but also on the democratic demands of this society, which falls at the same time when you ignore the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, expressed in the referendum. And it is not good, of course, for me, that a minister who runs such an important national centre is simply at the people's disposal, which is, of course, once again evidence of what I said earlier, how some of you who are in power today actually represent governance or politics. It is as if politics is just a means that can lead to the exercise of some narrow interests, but not that politics is a means to provide the widest possible circle of better conditions for a certain life. Even in the situation we're in today. I think that at the end of your response to iteration, the answer that we received three weeks ago, I think that, and even today, you said that we now have the opportunity to close one of the traumas that burden the Slovenian people. And you said you can't escape history. Here at this point, I fully agree with you. Both of us, as interior ministers, are just coming from a generation of politicians who are younger and can certainly have a certain distance to a half-lived history, we are not so emotionally attached to these events. And so, of course, here I agree with her, so we can overcome some divisions and ideology. However, to say what the distinguished Minister had previously said is that the issue of the so-called deleted trauma of Slovenia and the Slovenians, which burdens even their conscience, is still a little excessive in my opinion. That is why I ask the Minister, which Slovenian nation she actually had in mind. Did the one who fought in 1991 also give his life for independence in Slovenia? Or was it in this case that she had in mind people who knowingly speculated in 1991? Who calculated what would happen in the former Yugoslavia, what would the Milosevic regime do, how would things go? Which in 1991 - not that they didn't know, but they didn't even want to speak Slovenian! Maybe Mrs. Secretary had this Slovenian in mind. But she also said that it is a trauma that burdens us, but unfortunately in our Slovenian history we have significantly greater and worse traumas that burden this Slovenian nation and we have not yet been able to resolve them, or we have failed to admit some truth, which is certainly very much reversed after so many years - I am talking of course the period of postwar burdens. At the end of her performance, the Minister-General also said that, through the issuance of decisions and, consequently, after the payment of compensation to the deleted, we ensure respect for the Slovenian State. Here I must say that we respect the Slovenian state and we are also aware of what was happening in 1991. In fact, it is inappropriate and very bad that those who have fought for independence who have actively participated in this process, some of them have also sacrificed their lives for this, today it is clear that they do not respect Slovenian countries. It is even possible that I misinterpreted you at this point and that you had in mind that in this case the Slovenian State should respect the so-called deleted state, as I had previously said, which many of them do not yet know Slovenian and do not live here at all, but today we are giving them decisions as a current tape and, of course, we expect what they themselves have predicted, compensation. The latter was, of course, already established in the case of Todorovic. I would just like to say at the cabin that I was alone as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, also at the hearing of the Minister, and when she had a hearing, of course we voted on her appropriateness to this responsible place, and I must say that I did not vote against it at the time because I was starting from the point of view that a woman, a young woman who is interesting in politics and should be given an opportunity, was also from my own experience. But today, unfortunately with these decisions that followed later in connection with the deleted, as well as with your performance today in the National Assembly, which has been dramatically well-managed, I must say that you have not convinced me that today you would not vote in favour of your discharge from the post of Minister of Home Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, he's not here, but he'll probably hear me. I've reviewed the magnetogram of the Magi debate. Andrej Richtar. Indeed, with regard to the understanding of the rule of law, she quoted Mr Tsukati and had the right to explain in the first part that he was misunderstood and spoke substantially for over three minutes, but it was not essential. I'm sorry. Thank you. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted three ministers and a minister! Your Honor! In front of us is the interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal. The Minister, who has taken the cases deleted extremely seriously, methodologically consistently, in a transparent way, well placed in the form of interesting words and said to Francis Becon: "If we do not protect justice, even justice will not protect us." Madam Minister has acted as a good, upright and fair lawyer; the one who believes in the law trusts him protects him, and in particular protects the rule of law, the rule of law, with extreme precision and filigree precision. And if we protect justice, we will rightly say that the real target of this interpretation is essentially a decision of the Constitutional Court. For me, therefore, interpellation is not only a controversy with the Ministry of the Interior, but also, above all, with the Constitutional Court and all the juridical legal experts of all political colours, because the Constitutional Court is not able to do so and with this force of attack, but in particular not to interpret. Very simplistic, interpolation claims that there has been no deletion and that it is perfectly correct and legal and that it is not intended to make a decision and that the Constitutional Court should not decide that, in particular, that other grasses are so important and so much more powerful. It is quite amazing that the problem of deleted persons is repeated and repeated before each election as a constant and dominant motive, which, through the principle of ethics before the public, divides human rights according to the criterion of how much the public, public opinion and politics carry. But human rights are universal. I wonder who it helps and fits the extreme focus of this issue, to whom it helps to find ideal solutions that are not and will not be. Will the solutions only get worse and better? I personally expect a little bit better, because I'm mostly a real optimist. So far, we've only had a public that's been maximized due to the honking of damages and the poorly glumly wiped out who didn't get anything. In fact, it is a simple fact that more than twenty thousand people have been collectively taken and deleted by some right or validation of some of the twenty rights that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has so far tried to recover individually by issuing individual decisions. Minister Katarina Kresal and her colleagues offer and seek a solution and work hard on this. When seeking a solution, they take into account reality, communicate with the public and communicate it in a clear and understandable, fair and just way. The fact is that the law on foreigners was unconstitutional because it violated the fundamental principle of the rule of law. This is clearly stated by a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is worth saying that the Ministry of the Interior, at the beginning of its application to all those residents of the Republic of Slovenia who did not regulate their citizenship status until the prescribed period, de facto forfeited all rights and then referred them to the procedure for obtaining a residence permit, as regulated by the law on foreigners. This means that, at the first contact, the authority first destroyed all the documents, thus pushing the individual into a de facto unfair situation. This status had to be regulated without all the documents. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all those of the coalition and those of the opposition, try to get into their situation. True, he doesn't believe in hungry people. For example, try today to eliminate all administrative obstacles in the electronic administration, points. All in one place, settle the loss of one document. You will see how long this takes, how long, and what you will experience. I think that's the only way you'll understand the actual essence of this decision. Consider that all databases are available to you and that you have another document and so on and so on. It's a pain in the ass! Think of all the other deleted ones. Think of them. There was a war in the vicinity. Many paths and cities were not accessible, nor were the offices that could give them the necessary copies of the documents, since the birth of the mother book and so on, these documents have been quite extensive. It is common for decisions, decisions, regulations to contain a clearly defined transitional period. The Aliens Act did not have and did not allow deleted persons to resolve their affairs during the transitional period. In this case, this is the least we can offer all these individuals. And once again, there was no legal basis to erase it. The rule of law applies to the rule of law, which severely restricts the state administration in its actions. The State Administration, not ours and not any other, should not have any authority without the explicit legal basis for transferring its inhabitants from one record to another, or not having and having no authority to transfer them from the living to the dead register. For such an action, there must be an explicit and clearly defined legal basis. Of course, everyone affected should receive an appropriate administrative decision and, as a result, also have the right to appeal to such a decision. Not to mention the unnecessary judicial protection that the deleted persons did not have! Today we are witnesses, dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, that we must defend the rule of law and the constitution, the Government, the Ministry, the Minister and its co-workers, because the interpretation of attacks on the foundations and fundamental foundations of the rule of law. We must fight for justice because it richly rewards us. If we don't protect justice, justice won't protect us. I think that's a good word that we have to remember and keep in mind by the end of the term. I will not support the interpretation, as the Minister has demonstrated with her work so far a firm and firm will to defend the law, the rule of law, the constitutional order, which is evident at every step of her life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The beginning of the opposition scares me, and I fear such vengeful marches on the democracy of our little country. How much bile and ugly words you have spoken, but you probably don't even know, so I advise you to listen to each other at some point and trust me that you will have something to hear. The interpretation of Mrs Katarina Kresal's Minister of the Interior is simply the design and collection of polling points that you have recently lost, and all of this is actually an electoral campaign for the upcoming local elections. What you said today about deleted, about illiterate cleaners and others waiting for the solution of 18-year-old agony, which are nothing, or in your opinion less than nothing, is humiliating and "heider". The Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, has done difficult work in relation to the deleted or, as she has said on another occasion, has taken the bull by the horns and her very determination and conviction to do the right thing, the guarantee that the problem of deleted persons will be deleted from the list of tasks of the Ministry of the Interior. What the previous minister did for four years that he failed to move the matter written down from a dead spot, you know. Did he leave that question alone, as you left hundreds of pending cases to be handled by others? How many more loops have you set and now you're hiding in ambush, waiting for Pahor's government to fall into your insolence. What heroes! I will vote against the intervention of the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, because she follows the line of law and complies with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I welcome those few signatories to the interpolation: thank you for listening. I would say, however, that nothing in the applicant's introductory explanation and later discussions has surprised me today. It's already been heard, nothing new. In fact, it all sounds like an unsettled first-April joke. What's an interpolation? Interpellation is a legitimate weapon of opposition all over the world. The Constitution establishes an institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of a government or individual minister. And the opposition to ministers and governments is seeing a lot of things, but mostly political controversy with the government's unfulfilled promises. But it is also true that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already been quite innovative in the past in investing in interpretation, probably - you write more, you are better, but I don't think that's the case in this case. The Slovenian Democratic Party has exceeded itself in writing this interpretation. The Minister of the Interior interpels because he respects the Constitutional Court's decision because he therefore respects the principles of the rule of law, because he therefore respects the basis on which we all refer to as sacred and untouchable. If I use the words that have already been used in this Chamber today, but in a slightly different context: "Where else have you seen such things in the world?" Let us be honest, if, then, this interpretation is not a matter of fact, it is an emotion, it is a political promotion of feelings that divide. I heard today it's about a fight for prestige. That's not true. You wanted to start a battle for public opinion, but the problem is that in this battle we can't win or you can't win "our" or "yours". No one but the rule of law can win this battle. And anyone who swoops headlessly into the foundations of the rule of law will eventually get a headache - from headless bumps. And the key focus of your interpolation falls from the very beginning. It's demagogic, it's empty, it's free of all content. You're talking about millions of damages while the facts are perfectly clear. On the pages deleted, 30 lawsuits have been filed - I repeat for hundreds of years today - and exactly no compensation has been awarded. I saw a very interesting story on TV yesterday, and it's still in "Matthew's Palace for 4.5 million a month." Recalculated, 400,000 euros a month. Four hundred thousand euros! For a building that we're obviously building without a call for proposals - but that's not the problem! 400,000 euros a month for SDS is not a problem. Let's really look at the numbers, because the only numbers don't lie and you like to refer to the numbers of the proponents. If we count, out of 25,000 people were filed, as we said, 30 lawsuits. Otherwise, the percentage of the action is 0.0012. And once again, no compensation has been awarded under the law! On the other hand, one person who happens to represent the president of your party has already filed, if I'm not mistaken, because I'm having a hard time following 9 lawsuits. What do I mean by that? Not all people think like the esteemed president of your esteemed party. And I also understand your attitude towards the Constitutional Court. For the president of your party, who was already Prime Minister, publicly challenged, say, the Court of Auditors, who called him to dismiss the minister who broke the law. The Prime Minister's response was, I don't remember the quote, but something in the sense that the Court of Auditors should deal with matters concerning him. This underestimating attitude toward the judicial branch of power is also felt today on that side of the hall, which is now half empty. And today, as an argument, one legal opinion was also referred to as the most relevant, as the only opinion, and it was deliberately forgotten by a number of other diametrically opposed opinions - and this very much reminds me of the time when we adopted one law in the National Assembly, the law on RTV Slovenia. On the part of the same people who are the loudest in this room today, it was said that the law was written by many of the most respected experts. "Well, who exactly?" The opposition, as well as those who are directly pursued by the law, asked questions. The answer was, "We can't say, we don't want to expose them." And other things like that. And in the end, the confession followed: "I," there is no need to stress, "I am the author of this law." So the biggest media expert in Slovenia and, as we see today, the greatest expert on deleted. But most of all, it seems to me that your tendency to solve a deleted case means less money for education, for health, for social services. I beg you to let me look in the mirror for once, because those who listen today are not stupid. And the next time you have a pre-election campaign full of words about the rule of law, please remain silent. Today, I am waiting for those who are already going through Slovenia and are campaigning for the upcoming European elections to say something about this subject and to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision in the coming days. But you know, there are words and there are actions. And today something has been said about endangering the public finances system. I said before, today's newspaper story, 400,000 euros for a building that's built without a public invitation. You spent four years wasting your taxpayer's money. And now that you're in opposition, you're making laws that are also threatening public finances - but then it's not a problem! And today I read a really interesting blog that said, "Demagogy is the soul of every manipulation of people, especially in politics." Allow me to finally express my strong protest against the way in which Dr. Janez Drnovšk was spoken of in this Chamber today. At the time of the death of Dr. Janez Drnovšek, I was in another job. And every day, I saw a bunch of people waiting in line to sign into a sad book, to write some thought, to tell them what they thought about his politics, what they thought of him as a human. And what was said today in this hall is shameful, unworthy, and unworthy of the National Assembly. I expect those who have said this to apologize to at least 73,098 people who have enrolled in the sad book behind the late Dr. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! It has been 18 years since the war in Slovenia. Both left and right, you've been on the government all along, one more, the other less time, and you haven't done anything in the direction of the delete solution. That's why I'm sure nothing's going to happen now, too, because there's no interest. The only solution is to unify yourself and complete the matter together as you need to. The wisdom on the left and on the right does not bring a solution. The first paragraph of Article 63 of the Constitution prohibits any incitement to national, racial, religious or other inequalities and the spread of national, racial, religious or other hatred and intolerance. Thank God we have television and capable journalists who have recorded and documented all that has been banned by the Constitution at the time of Slovenia's independence! When the so - called brothers turned their backs on us, with weapons and various rallies, a small nation proved to be invincible and for all who thought otherwise. It is unacceptable for me that this law applies only to citizens of Slovenia or, if I am more precise, to Slovenians. By no means are those who opposed the independence of Slovenia for those who were in the aggressor army for those who chanted in Belgrade that the Slovenians must be destroyed by military force. You know, they would probably have succeeded if there were no other Slovenians in Slovenia who had stood out and put their lives on the altar of the country. And these aren't cowboys, as you insulted them in the coalition. I hope that the veterans of the war for Slovenia will respond accordingly. To say that the invaders should not be mentioned as being responsible for Slovenia's independence. After all these years, it's cynical that only those who have been and are still against our country who never really meant anything to them. When I watch TV shows, various confrontations, my stomach turns when some so-called deleted talk to our deserving Slovenians about the independence of Slovenia, including Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that they are liars, threaten them, file lawsuits and so on. But does not the first paragraph of Article 63 of the Constitution of Slovenia apply to all these gentlemen? Are they the ones to be rewarded for all those objections and our people to punish, to prosecute them for every, even the true word, which some are not after the year? As it turned out on 6 March 2003, when two deserving independents earned a criminal complaint from a company deleted from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia of 27. 3. 2003. In this complaint, the number of eighteen thousand deleted was mentioned. How can it now be that the number has increased by almost ten thousand in these few years? Of course, now no longer knows who lies to anyone: either the ministry or deleted. It is best to harmonise, but without punishment for misleading the Slovenian people will probably not work. The basic constitutional charter was stated that the citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia with permanent residence in Slovenia have the right to Slovenian citizenship under article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The procedure was very simple and under this law 170,000 inhabitants acquired Slovenian citizenship by 25 February 1992. And who did it get mixed up in? For those who sensed belonging to their own nation and not the Republic of which they were from. They were at the crossroads of what to do, but it was only their personal decision. It is not possible to tell Slovenia that it has not been taken care of and ensured that everyone would not be able to obtain the relevant documents, as is now apparent from the deleted pages. Many of them went to war zones: like soldiers, they bled their hands and later returned to Slovenia as refugees. Of course, they missed their chance. It was only on the initiative of some who felt that it would be possible to make some money in Slovenia on the basis of what they had once been in Slovenia that the so-called affair of erased started, but it also has the support of the ruling options, which also stems from the Minister of the Interior, who is fighting so fiercely for them, even at the price of her ministry. It also supports those who sold their apartments in Slovenia, left their jobs, received their resignations, and now they are back in line to earn it again. That's true, I have papers here that I get just from all over Slovenia when they send them to me that it's the truth. I am sure and believe that those who are truly wronged will be heard by the State and will be corrected, paid for, but not in the way that is being done now, but in the case of the case, which is also acceptable for those who have obtained the documents since 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Pene has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Mr President! True, today’s debate could be heard from the perspective of today’s date and, in the face of numerous nebulosises, speculations, at times of Confubolation, perhaps even a warm smile. You could if there were no true story and tragedy of true people behind all of this! Those real people who were and are still some of our neighbors, acquaintances, coworkers, maybe even classmates, people who were in the vortex of history, historical, political changes that were of course good to us and for our free country so important, they found themselves on the wrong side. They may have been clumsy in their reactions, were born in the wrong place, or simply could not follow some rigid, bureaucratic procedure. Of course, we understand each other, I believe that some of these individuals have been as you describe them, but the vast majority have been. The consequences were, of course, very different for different people. Some were unable to continue school, others were out of a job, and others had severe consequences, drastic, definitive, such as the case of Celjan with the abbreviations D. P., which had been erased in Slovenia since 1979; otherwise, he lived in Celje, then went to temporary work in Austria, and when he returned to extend his personal document, he was stopped by the traffic police. And when they stopped him, they took his papers. The second day he was supposed to report to the police station, he was taken to the border, across the Croatian border to Bosnia, where there was a war and recently found his remains in a group grave in Jajc. The consequences were definitive. And it's because of some bureaucratic procedures! So I would step back on my own and try to avoid some emotional charge, and let's look at purely naked facts. Slovenia is and wants to be a legal, just European country. The prerequisite for this is, of course, to adhere to the legal, moral, ethical, if you want, or to any other standards that apply to the countries of the European Union. Slovenia, of course, has the highest legal document, Slovenia has a constitution and has an official judge for cases of irregularities and irregular proceedings, and this is, of course, the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court has already ruled twice that the deletion was illegal and that the problem of deleted persons needs to be addressed. And a dot. These are naked facts. And I will say that I support the Minister in her efforts to finally do so. The naked fact is also that the purpose of today's interpellationers is not immeasurable patriotism and concern for the social security of citizens of Slovenia, as would any listener or viewer from these debates think, but let's just say bob beans: it's populism. The desire for a time before some new elections, this time for the European Members, or for the purpose of overthrowing the current government, to blow the souls of voters as much as possible, especially those who are currently most affected by the economic crisis in our economy. Why, though, would they impose even a basket of different topics on the issue that was deleted, which was your point of view for today’s debate?Oh, my God! Here we go: student scholarships and layoffs in companies, post-war killings, pension supplements, in short, severe mixing of apples, pears, and some other fruit. What worries me the most about this today is that the phrase used in the description of the erased and the justness of the deletion is very much a reminder of the expression used many years ago by a German-speaking gentleman with a mustache or his faithful ideologies when they justified the need for a special treatment of a lesser nation. The team of history then managed to convince hungry crowds that their economic plight in another nation with special privileges was responsible and thus diverted attention from those real causes of the situation. If I pull a parallel, I can see it here too: some difficult economic situation, the roots of this economic situation are going somewhere, and of course we need to find someone to blame. And these are the ones who are about to receive these fabulous, huge compensations. We have already told you about these damages and how many they have already been or will still be paid. And I think that this referendum with which he's intertwined may have been an awkward saying "street" -- and in any way, it's a weapon of the crowd. And as a psychiatrist, I've been working for a while, and I've been learning about how the crowd can actually be manipulated. Of course, with a certain selection of data you give, by the way things show up, the crowd can get pissed off, in any way. Let's just look at a few things! Consider, for example, the description of who would now receive citizenship, which we are not really talking about, back. Among the 25,000 people, this is supposed to be a lot of officers and those who hurt the country. These people have been proven to be a few hundred and 5,800 children and 8,300 women. I remember that they used to say that officers were a sign of manhood, but that those few hundred officers made 5,300 children after Slovenia, which they then took to Serbia and Croatia - I apologize, but I think this is a little too much. Let's say a bobbean. Indeed, some people were certainly those who were, in saying, also "criminally oriented", or on the wrong side if you want; but only a large majority were those who had no influence on it. Even before it was said, it was their parents who blamed the children. I personally know a few children who are not at all guilty of being erased: whether they had one of the parents of the deceased, but the mother did not find herself. Just think, with all this red tape, you can't find one more person in the most basic bureaucratic stuff. And here were the people put before the decision - you have to do this, this, this. They were sent from window to window. And of course, a lot happened. Therefore, it is right that these wrongs that have been done to acknowledge and correct these errors are the same as the dot. And that's what we're talking about, actually, not those apples and pears. You know, from as many fruits as you put together, you get an excellent fruit salad or homemade brandy. And also with this domestic burning, the sight of people is more clouded than with these untruths that you are quoting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, all the others present! Today, at this interpretation, the ruling coalition is trying to make the impression that the ruling state is defending the rule of law and that the opposition is destroying it by interpolation, which is a very simplistic manipulation by those who use or recognize the rule of law only in the part that suits them and for those for whom it is appropriate. A number of concrete cases of illegal and illegal activity in our country, which are not so loud and media-exposed, do not exist for you. These so-called lawyers of the rule of law find it difficult to see and hear anything else they say and believe in. These so-called advocates of the rule of law interpret the Constitution and the laws as they do in politics - domestically and entrenched by individuals. Some laws apply, others don't. Some have the right to legally protect their good name, others do not have that right. According to these defenders of the rule of law, the minister should be replaced by the President of the Government, even though we know that this is a matter for Parliament to decide. The minister, who is not yours, should act differently than the law, or stricter than the law, because he is not yours, and therefore stricter rules of the game apply to him. These attorneys of the state can say what they want, lie, mud, and nothing will happen to them. This is so with understanding, respect, the rule of law in the National Assembly, and it is not necessary for those who say so to be "blond". Ministers, including Mrs Kresalova, swore on appointment in accordance with the Constitution that they would respect the constitutional order. Respect for the constitutional order means respect for the Constitution in its entirety, not just the individual part, the one that suits someone better. The Minister, who does not respect the constitutional order, is even more worthy of acting as Minister, who is aware of this order, even if he is hiding behind a decision of the Constitutional Court, which does not impose such violations on him. Since the President of the Government gives much responsibility and example, we would rightly expect such a minister or a minister who does not respect the constitutional order to resign. He did not do so; more than that, he stated in this building that he was standing for the Minister, so he would have to take over and bear responsibility for the consequences of the performance of the executive branch in contravention of the constitutional order in force. In Article 153, paragraph 4, the Constitution states: "The individual acts and acts of the public authorities must be based on law or legal provision." There is no law on the basis of which decisions issued now are issued to so-called deleted persons, which is also based on the preamble to these decisions, which refers not to the law, but to the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003. Article 160 and Article 161 of the Constitution, which speaks of the powers of the Constitutional Court, does not imply that the Constitutional Court should also have legislative powers. For this reason, the decision in paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court’s decision of 3 April 2003 to understand, taking into account the provisions of our constitutional order and legislation in its entirety, as interpreted most precisely by the nine top legal experts who, when this decision was issued or six months later, wrote: "Article 161 of the Constitution, and the undisputed position of the legal theory, the Constitutional Court is the so-called negative legislator, which means that if the laws find their non-conformity to the Constitution, they may be repealed." In accordance with the fourth point of Article 153 of the Constitution, which I have read earlier, decisions of administrative bodies such as the Ministry of the Interior must be based on law or on a legal provision. It does not appear constitutionally correct that the Constitutional Court’s decision constitutes a direct basis for the issuance of administrative decisions, as it also does not comply with the principle of the division of power referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution. That 8th point is also not procedurally enforceable. Why is it not procedurally enforceable? Complementary decisions may only be issued on the basis of the laws and regulations in force at the time of entry into force of the main decision. The different conduct of the administrative authorities would also be inconsistent with the principle of jurisdiction set out in Article 158 of the Constitution. In view of the above, this is necessary, and the enforcement of the 8th point must also be regulated by law. The Constitutional Court's decision under the Constitution cannot therefore be the basis for the issue of concrete decisions, nor can it be the basis in this particular case that we are talking about in interpretation today. In the event of the adoption of these supplementary decisions, it is therefore a matter of non-compliance with the legal order, a matter of non-compliance with the Constitution, a violation of a number of provisions of the law in force when these decisions are issued without a determination of the actual situation and, above all, without a legal basis. All these decisions will be the basis for compensation. Interestingly, the first case happened to Mr Todorovic, who was asked to apply for Slovenian citizenship, as he himself said, seemed unworthy. The decision of the Constitutional Court was issued on 3 April 2003. So six years ago. Why, then, the speed and power of the new authority? Why is this matter, contrary to the law in force, so important that it is given its first priority? Why aren't there priorities for those who lose their jobs every day? Why don't people have priorities that come harder from day to day? If this is really about correcting injustices, which you are saying - why you did not and why you do not now support our proposal for a constitutional law that would allow individual treatment and management of actual problems, limit compensation and prevent the enforcement of those speculators, which you are now doing when you issue these decisions. A number of lies were said here today in this hall that they did not know at the time. Interesting! 200,000 people got their status, but they didn't know it had to be handled. When we go to change residences, are we waiting for someone to invite us to do so, or should we settle this status ourselves? Lies about the fact that if there was no complaint in the decision that it was not possible then how can complementary decisions be issued now if there was no legal instruction? [[...]] On the other hand, it is said that these decisions do not exist at all and so on. What we've been listening to from some tops lately is terrible. We hear that those who acted in accordance with the then applicable constitutional order and then applicable legislation should be held accountable for the so-called deleted ones. This points to the already well - known story of the Vič - Holmec affair, which insulted those who defended Slovenia to know or discredit as war criminals. It's sad! It's sad! And this is where the coalition goes today. The statements of many members of the ruling coalition show that you do not care enough about these countries, that you care about 2,000,000 Slovenes and Slovenians, about their real problems and problems. Why was this problem not highlighted in 1992, 1993, 1993, 1994, 1995? Why only when the period of independence began to separate and when some speculated that it would be slowly forgotten which side someone was on at the time? That is the case, a recent letter from former JLA generals, the Yugoslav People's Army, who attacked Slovenia, and now we want the Slovenians to pay their pensions. To understand each other, it is right to receive pensions, but Slovenia is not the one who is supposed to pay their pensions. Retirement should be paid by the country where these people felt when Slovenia was attacked. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always advocated resolving the problem of the so-called deleted, namely by constitutional law. Unfortunately, this was constantly opposed by the current ruling coalition, if we were to go in this arrangement through a decision of the Constitutional Court - we did not hear where, why and how. Apparently, there were reasons, as we can see, elsewhere. As far as this constitutional law is concerned, I must say that it is indeed undignified and sad that the LDS does not want to recognise the positive roles of the former President of the State, Janez Drnovsk, in support of the constitutional law agreements expressed in writing on 9 January 2006 in a letter addressed to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and to the Presidents of all parliamentary parties. That's sad, too. Regardless of how we feel about the 2003 Constitutional Court decision, it must be respected and therefore all your instigations in this direction are unworthy and immoral; that is, in order that we do not wish to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court; however, constitutional order and laws must be fully respected. This is also why we have proposed a constitutional law that will settle these issues once and for all, not just some. I would not settle them individually but individually; as in the case of individual decisions, just as the individual rights must be regulated by an all-man in this country - only some obviously not - would correct any errors, limit damages and prevent the exercise of rights to those who have left Slovenia in 1991 and would now like to benefit from this title. Your Honor, constitutional law is the only way. This path you're taking now is wrong. She's wrong for a number of reasons. The first, which seems essential to me, is that the constitutional order does not allow administrative decisions without a legal basis. So it's a conscious violation of the Constitution. This way, this unconstitutional path, the problem will not be resolved. A lot of years won't work out, and he won't settle for everything in a uniform way. And we'll all end up paying a very high price. The only honorable way out of this concern would be to resign the Minister and support the constitutional law. The problem would be settled, the rule of law solved. Those whom you claim to have been deprived would have been given their rights, speculators would have been prevented from exercising their rights. Unfortunately, actions are needed, not words, and those of the current ruling coalition cannot be expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Nicely greeted! We are looking at the issue of dealing with the status of former citizens of the SFRJ with two aspects in both the Parliamentary Group and the Slovenian People's Party. In view of the possibility of a definitive settlement of the problem that has already been drawn up and damaged the reputation of the State for too long because some use the country as a target or hostage to gain their own benefits. By blackmailing the recognition of damages for something which is not the State's fault, the status is to regulate itself, or for its political promises, some parties who persistently advocate the making of decisions without the legal basis and the determination of the situation, as is normal for any proceedings before administrative authorities, and by re-establishing the legal basis for damages, perhaps on a new basis and in terms of how it interprets and attempts to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court in our country, as a political fit for someone. On this issue, we could say that it is also a dilemma of what happened before: chicken or egg. Of course, in this case, the country or in its name is the National Assembly, and the egg, of course, is the Constitutional Court. Everyone has a role and purpose. In our constitutional order, the laws are passed by Parliament. We have always stressed in the Slovenian People's Party that we respect the Constitutional Court and that we are committed to implementing constitutional decisions, but in such a case it is also necessary to ensure legality, adopt appropriate laws and not implement oral decisions directly. Or the chicken is the law and the egg is the decision of the Constitutional Court, and the comparison remains the same. It is clear that in any case it is the responsibility of the Constitutional Court to repeal non-compliant parts of the law but not the legislative jurisdiction. The Slovenian People's Party was the first to respond publicly to the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003 and to draw attention to the dispute. In the archive we keep public statements and calls throughout this period given to the President of the Government and to the competent minister to adopt the relevant legislation. We have always argued that the decisions to return are not, in fact, realistic and unnecessary, as lawyers have said at the time. The documentation shows that it objected to the allegations made in the initiative by the then Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as by the legal service of the Government, which is always silent in dealing with this issue. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to point out in today's debate, which is the result of the launch of supplementary decisions to the so-called deleted, that a number of legal experts have confirmed in their opinions and statements in the past and supported the claims that a constitutional decision is required by law. Even the Ministry of the Interior stressed the need for the so-called technical law to enforce the 8th point of the constitutional decision. Opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service, facts on deleted, material of the Ministry of the Interior, opinion of legal experts, expert council of the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Pirna, Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Dr. Bučar and other experts. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore reiterate today that the issuance of decisions to so-called deleted persons is only possible on the basis of a constitutional law which would also allow for the individual treatment of each individual case. Only in this way would the status of all those who have become foreigners in the Slovenian territory become fairly regulated. At the same time, this would prevent compensation from being awarded to those who, at the time of Slovenia's independence, acted against Slovenian interests or even fought against Slovenia. We therefore call on everyone to adopt the relevant constitutional law with a sober head and to get the issue out of the agenda. It harms the reputation of our country. We call on the Minister not to issue decisions without law and all former citizens of the SFRJ to finally settle their status with us. We reiterate that, under our constitution, all those who feel that they have been wronged or mistrialed have the opportunity to prove this in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u138	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I don't want people in this country to talk about erased, something or other. Sadly, the words of the Holy Paul two thousand years ago, directed against distinction, national intolerance, still sound utopian from today’s perspective. How much impatience, distinction, inequality. "It is neither the Greek nor the Jew, nor the slave nor the freeman, nor the man nor the woman," we read in the letter to the Galileans. In the letter to the Romans, the Holy Paul goes on to say, "Glory, time, and peace be upon everyone," and onward, "as God does not look upon a person." So we're all the same before God. Minister Katarina Kresal in her outstanding performance, which will remain, not only talked about dry legal categories, she opened an ethical, human dimension. I do not resent the Slovenian National Party because it defends the interests of the people before other interests. My critical focus is on people, groups, parties who refer to Christianity in their programmes. Therefore, without offense, members of the Order of the Knights of Malta, members of Opus Deia, listen to the original words of Jesus - someone said, but this is dangerous, but I hope not, we have three vice-presidents, no harm - "how dare I share the teachings of such remarkable people, share the smiles and educations." Still, how far from original Christianity. How sad of people who have the Bible on their shelf. Perhaps we are not reading the same Bible; perhaps the protagonists of the era were inspired by the Old Testament, Moses ’ return from Sinai, an account of the Gentiles, a literal decimation of those who did not observe the Law. Clearly, they did not come any further in their thinking than the Old Testament, Moses ’ ideology of disfellowshipping, disfellowshipping, persecution, extermination of those who were not true nationalities, true faith. Political transitions, social upheavals are unfortunately different periods of accounting. It is time to clean the ground, to dispose of all the disruptive elements and to ensure lasting peace. During individual periods, this cleaning takes a grotesque form filled with corpses. It's like he's getting kicked out of the border. Kosovo. Let's say, in mild form, the transfer of records from one corridor to another. And this last, easier form of cleaning space wasn't so innocent. I can't help feeling that it wasn't just about deleting people with an "emphasis", a "southermen" but it also has a sense of religious consolidation of the ground during the transition. This ease of apology - we just transferred the records from one hallway to another. What's that?Oh, my God! Interpreter, transferred and not deleted. So-called deleted, we've been listening all day. Constitutional judges, imagine, today you have learned again from an expert on all questions about the so-called deleted, I want to say from a so-called expert. What ease, or not, Mr Sugar, we have just carried on and so on, translated "transferred" as they say, people without status, without employment opportunities, pensions, social rights. But many have become people who are not. Invisible people. The ease of deceiving. They didn't get their status, they didn't apply for a permanent residence. At this point, you've been very successful in misleading the public, I must say. You're consciously mixing two things up! Nationality and permanent residence. Gorenak, it was a decision to make. Manipulation, a lie you sell successfully. They didn't have to make decisions about their permanent stay, Mr. Gorenak had a place to stay. It's interesting that you didn't transfer the records of all the foreigners, but only some. You're saying it was a decision to make. They didn't have to decide. This applied to citizenship and not to residence. It's a perverse scam that you're still deceiving the Slovenian public. But it's getting smaller. What ease! How easy it was for him to break the law. How easy it is to deal with the fate of thousands of women and minors. How easy, perhaps fundamental, moral standards are beaten.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Magajna, I didn't understand why you called me by name, so I can't replicate either. Mr. Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, it is necessary to say that, in fact, today we strongly support the name of the late Janez Drnovska in LDS. In the LDS, we are proud of our former President, the President of the Government, and we are also aware that the man who has contributed enormously to Slovenia's independence, and also by leading the government then, has laid the right foundations for our economy. Of course, let us not let within the LDS his name be underestimated or manipulated in any way. So much for Janez Drnovska. Mrs Irgle also quoted in the introduction or in her speech some information that they did not hold. It is said on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights, when we have dealt with the fact that it has been deleted, that there has indeed been a vote and it is true that the Commission has voted on the SDS amendments. It is true, however, that I, as a member of the LDS, opposed and did not vote in favour of that amendment, nor did Mr SD vote. Thus, the amendments of the SDS on deleted were adopted by 3:2. That wasn't the great majority. However, if we are even going to the subject of today's debate, in my humble knowledge of the logic of basic sin was committed when political parties adopted an agreement on 11 December 1990 at the beginning of plebiscite, in which they committed themselves to dealing with nationalities, both Hungarian and Italian, as well as all members of other Yugoslav nations. If the adoption of the Aliens Act were to take into account this position, which was then signed by all parliamentary parties, there would be no such topic today, or if, at least when you adopted the Aliens Act, those amendments which were then tabled by the opposite party, which were rejected by the then Demos Coalition in the majority. So much for memory. I would like to say below that I myself have been involved in the war of independence, so I have no reservations about the status of deleted, those who were then deleted in one way or another. Of course, those children and wives who were innocent and who suffered these traumas or who had problems such as these or other ones. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I firmly believe that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and that the decision, even if you are not a lawyer, follows at point 8 that we must, without wanting to, issue all the replacement decisions. That is why I will vote against the interpretation today, and I will be very pleased to support the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Godec has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u142	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague. This interpolation is very long and incriminating in four main points and in the entire debate on the eighteen sides of the additional debate and also in the entire debate of all the debaters who supported this interpolation. All of these four points and the whole further content is actually pure contraband with large additions of pure lies, which despite today’s holiday of liars have a very short leg. I would expect such an interpretation to be a pure april joke on this day, but it is obviously not, but it is a carefully constructed political structure against honest work at the Ministry of the Interior, run by Mrs Katarina Kresal. I hope that it will bear all these low blows that we are getting and all these "fawles" by football, and that justice will win today, not the indication of some non-primary fake hooks that are persistently playing on the same line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Kontic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, there is another Minister, and you are here today, and so are you. [[...]] This is an important event in Parliament. It is an intervention against a minister who respects the Constitutional Court's decision. Wrong world. We're actually dealing with the consequences. We're not talking about the cause. However, mistakes or consequences are very difficult to resolve if we do not know the cause or if we do not want to know it. It's even more difficult to correct a mistake if we don't admit it ourselves. This is as someone once said: Our house was considered fair until it got divorced. And we want to actually show that time as a time when nothing went wrong. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, it happened. The former Prime Minister of the Government, in his performance, said or warned us whether we are aware of what 10,000 new people in the employment facility at this time of crisis mean. With this he unwittingly acknowledged the deleted ones and unwittingly told where these deleted ones belong, according to how they lived in the past years. But these so - called radios from that period did not only make sure that these people were not in the employment agency, they also made sure that there was no traffic jam because they were left without a driver’s license, without a traffic permit, they made sure that they were not crowded in kindergartens, that children were not entitled to kindergartens, schools, and so on. Not to mention health homes where it's crowded, not to mention dentists. And we made sure that it was a little bit smaller. If he was evil, he might even say that some had problems at funerals, for it is very difficult to bury a man who is not. And I believe those who have warned and even warned that in every country, it is most difficult to prove to an official that you are alive if you are declared absent. Even worse if they find out you're dead. Poor citizens and citizens flock to the official window when we seek their rights, and perhaps not only the rights when we want the service offered by the administration, but we have to pay our fees, we are sent from the official to the official, that is what the former President of the Government said. Even though we have had four years of prosperity, this remains about the same. I have deleted this coalition, this minister, this government issues decisions on an official basis. But, I'm sorry, these decisions, by official duty, only allow these people to prowl in front of these windows and look for the services that we now have and seem to us to be self-sustaining. Over the Constitutional Court's decision by constitutional law - of course, this is a circuit, this can be done, but the question is whether this is legally correct. Some even point out that even if a constitutional law had been passed, a constitutional opinion could have been given. Now I'm so good and I don't know the right one to comment on it. But that's about as much as if you're competing in some sport and you're the judge judging by mistakes. You don't agree with that because it makes it impossible for you to win. And what do you do? You change the rules for a judge to judge differently. That's about right. And when we talk about so-called compensations, and when we claim that they are not there, you claim that these compensations are, not one has been paid in this country. 4,000 decisions have been issued, several lawsuits, some claims for compensation, none of them are legally binding, nor have any of them been paid to date. Of course, it is very difficult to predict what will happen in the future. And maybe that's why you do what you do. I'm going to borrow from this book, because you've already heard about Plato, chapter of Logic, and subsection of Mistake, it's written roughly like this or exactly like this, if I don't get it wrong when quoting, "Every morning, step to the threshold and shout, 'Let the house be safe from the tigers!' Then he goes back inside. We finally said to her, "Why all this, because there's a thousand miles around there is no tiger." And she said, "Look, it works." That's about as much as your compensation. Madam Minister, my sincere congratulations and my appreciation for your attitude, however, not only in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor. Excuse me. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, another Minister, Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! In the beginning, perhaps just a few words about how this term "deleted" came about, a group of so-called deleted. For I claim that there was no deletion, so there can be no compensation. I'll explain. During that time, from 1990 to 1994, I was able to do such a job that I faced it directly. In 1991, immediately after independence, we have been assigned to the municipalities since the then Secretariat of Internal Affairs, which was then the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to have all those who do not have the status to be automatically prescribed for citizenship, but of course they have been registered because they lived here, because if they were not registered, then we would be illegal, and we should not have them tell us what they need to do to get this status in order to be able to obtain all the documents. And we sent them a letter. In the congregation where I was responsible, there were some 300 of these. We sent a letter to all of them informing them that if they wanted to arrange for the status to come to room number 52 in the municipality where they would sign one form of data and pay some of the then dinars. However, in order to prove that they lived there, they must bring at least one bill: that they paid the rent, or that they paid the rent, or that they paid the electricity for the apartment they were staying in, or anything else, that they could prove that they lived in Slovenia for at least one month, that they were officially registered. Only this was the only condition that they were granted status, so is citizenship, whatever they wanted. They were officially recorded. That's all it took. No knowledge of Slovenian, nothing else. And what happened? On the first call came a large number who came and took care of everything. After three months, we were given the task of again informing those who have not yet taken this step. And after three months again. So, somewhere in February, March 1992, that third call was for people to sort it out. And now I'm asking you, who didn't hear that three times? Wasn't he informed? And what were the responses? 90% of us got it done, and some of the others we got returned envelopes "unknown", "titles aren't" or similar, and some of the envelopes were painted in the style of that expression, a little lower, well. You know roughly what was drawn. I'm sorry I didn't save any of the envelopes, but that's what happened. That's why I'm saying there's no eraser, and there can't be any compensation. The next thing I want to say is that these so-called eraseds went to Brussels, when the Schengen did not apply. Now I ask you how they could have come across the Slovenian border to Austria and Brussels if they had no documents if they were deleted. And that's what they found in Brussels, I don't know who accepted them, the Commissioner or anyone who asked them, "How did you get here, with what documents?" And they showed them their passports. Sorry, this was no longer deleted and the case was closed, only in Slovenia we did not say anything about it. It's a little awkward to talk about erased, compared to what happened in the Baltic countries. The next thing I would like to point out is that workers in Slovenia who lose their jobs are not guilty of anything, and perhaps no one will tell them what will happen to them and they will be erased from their jobs. Why, after analogy, do they not get any subsequent decisions to get the job back or to get some compensation? Why isn't that valid here? What about human rights? Aren't there kids in the back when you're talking about kids, or aren't there women in the back? Or are these workers who lose their jobs after 30, 35 years of age not subject to the same rights and are not entitled to any decisions and to money or compensation? Many workers will never receive any compensation, but they have lost their jobs for 30 years. Why is that? And for so-called deleted care. All right, no harm, but let before the law, before Slovenian law, everyone before the Slovenian Constitution, including those removed from service, be subject to human rights. And here these so-called eraseds are exclusively for damages. It's also not about documents, citizenship or anything like that, because a lot of people don't want to be a citizen at all. And that's what they said in front of the cameras, that it's just compensation. And in this case, interpolation is about interpolation against the attitude of the current Slovenian authorities towards people who had problems with the Slovenian state and now want compensation. The decision itself, which is being issued, this supplementary decision is the basis for the compensation which will have to be enforced in the actions and will be represented by lawyers. It's about making fun of the current power of the people, of the thousands of Slovenians who have lost their jobs and are without it, and they're not getting anything, not discharges, not compensations, nothing. It's an interpretation against those who don't care how much such work as you're doing right now costs Slovenia. There is no money for pensioners, and they have been promised to have 1,000 euros in pensions and anything else, and there is no money for that, so you say, no money for scholarships, this grant fund is being reduced. But if we calculate, roughly, 25,000, as it is now, that the number can increase by 10,000, no one knows because this is going to increase by one third. There, however, it is the so-called deleted and it is about a billion euros. There could be more, it could be less, but about a billion euros when the lawsuits are launched. The single sample for this lawsuit is already circulating on the Internet. Sorry, that's right. I didn't make it up. I got it there, too. Now let's go count. What does a billion mean? If the average salary is 1,000 euros, this means 83,000 salaries per year in Slovenia. At this point we solve the entire crisis in Slovenia, there is no more unemployed because everyone could get paid for one year. And that's what this is about. Money. This case also shows the priority of current authority at this time. Are those workers, 200 to 300, more important, who lose their jobs each day to make up for them? You don't talk about it. You don't talk about bankruptcy. But there's a lot of talk, say, about this billion that the so-called eraseds would sue if we counted so quickly. Could be more, gentlemen. Now I'm asking you, what's the state of law? Does the rule of law not apply to everyone? Doesn't it apply to unemployed people who lose their jobs? Is it only for one? Or for some more and for others less? Let me get this straight. You said we gave money to our beloved groups in the previous term. Yeah, we gave money to the pensioners first. They got higher pensions, the calculation would be better. They're not just our loved ones, they're the ones they needed the most. We also gave food to the students. Yeah, these are all ours. These are ours and your Slovenian children. And now you are telling us that we have given in the previous mandate to love our groups more. You could also list, free kindergartens for another child, by 2014 for all children free kindergarten. Yeah, that's what we gave. But you can't say it's our favorite group and you can't tell us that. And we can tell you that you only care about deleted ones, not those who lose their jobs. And you don't have to worry about those. And that bothers us. If we had the kind of concern that you think has been erased, then it probably wouldn't be the interpolation today. And, as I said, the minister represents this sector, sorry God, he could be someone else, because he's already sat. But this is an interpretation of the relationship of this current authority, of the current time and priorities that are being established in this country at this time on your part, so-called deleted. Yes, everything, without any restrictions, you talk about human rights, about workers who lose jobs and everything that's connected to it, nothing, nothing about those. Let us have the same vats for all, and then perhaps such discussions will not be necessary. But you too need to ask yourself, ‘ What are the things you don’t talk about that are more necessary and have the same problems or worse? ’ And for 30, 35 years, they've been paid into a pension fund for health insurance, and now they're out of it. They also have children, and there are women when you speak, to be treated equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, I see, Madam Minister, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that a situation which has not been brought to bear by him does not cause him to take action against those who suffer because of the situation which has been caused by the State. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to respect the rule of law, to solving the problems of the unemployed and the people suffering, with social sensitivity. I fully support my colleague, Minister Katarina Kresal, in her conduct. And to sit here today on a sad bench after three months of the government's term, of course she didn't deserve it. To respect the principles of the rule of law, we have committed ourselves both as a jurist and as ministers, and therefore today I suffer with it for the reason that the discourse of hatred is once again trying to sell as an argument in this country. I have in front of me the year 2003, 2004, when I was told by the SDS political option that the reason why the Slovenian public disagreed with the conduct of the then power, when it tried to solve the problems deleted, from then-Minister Bohinec that I would be personally, who, of course, would be in favour of the principles of the rule of law and the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision to send me away politically. And so did I. Because of the same discourse, because of the demagogies, because of the lies you were able to spread as skillfully as you know them again today. However, I am sure that you do not have the support of the general public in this direction today. After years, however, people find that a policy that exploits the pressures of a particular group of people for its political rise is not worth the position that can be achieved at the moment it began to rule. And today again these same lies, Mr Grimes, you used my name so many times today that I thought I was the one who was being intertwined. On the hiring, you read a sentence from a book where the testimony was supposed to be erased, which, of course, those who wrote it were not checked by anyone. One testimony that you presented to me and that I was supposed to commit, I explained to you very well that it was not true, but it was one testimony. And I don't want to talk about it anymore. All I know is that this record wasn't correct, it wasn't like that, it didn't correspond to the actual state of affairs, and yet, Mr Grims, it doesn't mean that the current Minister of Government clearly and loudly admits that this is a fictional story. This is the political manipulation that is the eminent ability of the people of your party, which you so skillfully use and abuse to make people who suffer in certain situations themselves identify with this and fuel hatred among people. What else did you manage to sell in the past? My statement! In 2004, I said a metaphor in this House: Human rights do not have a price. Before the elections, you formed an electoral pamphlet, which stated: "Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Vice-President of the National Assembly, said in Parliament, when talking about the deleted, that human rights do not have a price, so she will support compensation of 800 million tolars to the deleted." At the time, people in Koroška even called me "exterminated" and colleague Friday helped to do so because the Veterans' assemblies were organized in Mizica. Not just that. Signatures for the confiscation of citizenship, so-called deleted, began to be collected in Měžica. In short, the action was perfect. Of course, people believed in such an organized action, supported by fiction, that something with this burning fire must certainly be true. And when after four years, when no compensation has been paid to anyone, this legal void has caused an unconstitutional situation, you are again trying to sell it to the Slovenian public, I believe that, of course, it no longer believes you. I believe this is a failed attempt, and I believe that people have finally come to know your scheming behavior. The government, which has to deal seriously with very serious problems today, while on a deformed team, is here trying to convince the Slovenian public with an argument that your allegations are not true and that the interpretation filed against the colleague minister has absolutely no reason. As did she when the issue of decision-making was raised by Minister Bohinc. We're late for action. We're clear. Then please give us time to deal with them instead of dealing with a problem that is not at all. That's not a problem. The Minister issues decisions to people living here with us today, who are permanent foreigners or who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. He's only doing what needs to be done. And another performance by Mr Grimes, which he gave at the opening performance, is completely depressed. He said, "If these people only applied, their problems would be solved." That's not true! And I can tell you exactly that because I worked as Head of the Department of Administrative and Home Affairs during that period. All those who applied for permanent foreign status in the Republic of Slovenia and submitted a request within the time limit were in such a way that these requests were forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior, which was then the authority responsible for the decision-making. Since these applications were large, the authorisation was granted after six months, after one year and so on. The records of permanent aliens were entered on the date of the decision, i.e. the status of permanent foreigner. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court also found that this person was without a personal status. And these decisions, which are now being issued, cover this legal void. Every man has the right to be chronologically guided by his or her stay through processes if this normal law is fulfilled. And this one did. And there are thousands of them. And when I explained to people many times in a conversation where there was a small group, people said yes, and then they really didn't hold what they were saying. But these explanations are very difficult because this is a difficult legal issue and it is a difficult matter, a difficult factual situation known only by those who then followed the existing legislation. And we followed existing legislation back then. And the problem was that she set standards for people who lived in Slovenia as if they did not live in Slovenia. It was a European comparable law on foreigners, which ordered them to go to Bosnia, Serbia or Croatia and obtain a passport of the country of which they are citizens. There was a war, they had to prove that they had an apartment, to prove that they had the means to survive, to prove the reason for being in the Republic of Slovenia. It's like they came to Slovenia for the first time, but they've lived in it for 10, 15 years. The law had forgotten, overlooked, today the amendment had not been adopted, this has already been said a hundred times, and these people were simply overlooked. All foreigners from other countries automatically entered the status of foreigners in the new Republic of Slovenia. And that's the only mistake the minister's making today. And that, I think the Slovenian public understands very well today. And I very much ask that the current government allow you to really deal with the problems that are burning and for which we need to have full energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the motioner, please, Mr Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u150	I have to say, there's something I don't quite understand. If I use your magnetogram, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, you said at the hearing that this so-called deleted interview gave a completely easy interview, this is a quote, and that it was about imposing high compensations and quote: "When the pressure was exerted on the authorities, they had to invent some things" and then added: "because I was performing a function, they liked it very much". Since you've also operated here several times on the expression of lying, I guess it's not clear to me if the so-called erased, if this obvious lying on them, then you were the victim, then your dissipation here was wrong. If not, then you were in the role of not telling the truth either at the hearing today or both. If you can specify: Is the so - called erased liar? No one on this side of the debate has made such an observation until now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u152	Look, I said that statement wasn't real. In your debate, however, you generalised that the Minister of the current government said that you were erased, in general, that all these stories were made up. This one's not. That one of the deleted in view of my function at the time, that was in 2000, using my name and wanting to exert pressure on the current authority, I understand more than I understand that you then abused my position when I fought for the rights of deleted, for political purposes. The victim, not this gentleman, I was your victim at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Wiggle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u154	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Minister-in-Charge! The Minister, who is not here, I will support her in trying to interpolate and congratulate her on how and how she addressed some delicate subject, some difficult topic that obviously raises a lot of emotion in Slovenia and a lot of desire for political manipulation. I think he's doing a good service to our country. If nothing else, you can trust me that in recent years I have listened to many comments in the world because of the problem erased. The colleague mentioned earlier which all respected international organisations have placed Slovenia on the list of fundamental human rights violators precisely because of this issue. This is a black stain on respect for the rule of law in this country. I have not changed my point of view, which I have mentioned several times in this congregation, that I do not answer people who use low - tech lies and pretenses and that they do not exist to me. Like I said, if I lived 200 years, then I'd deal with them, and I won't. My visit to Belgrade and a colleague from the opposition, which you have left behind, has been a bit of a ruse in this debate, so you're also telling us how you really feel about this debate. Some words were attributed to many, many lies to find the real reason for this delusion. Of course, it was clear that you would also force the debate on deleted ones to put it on a very high level and that you would expect very much from it. It seems to me that it is a lucky circumstance that your leader does not have the same opinion as you, and I have had the impression that he was uncomfortable today and that he has attended this debate for such a short time. Today, with my signature, I would like to join a group of 99 distinguished Slovenian students, intellectuals and culturers who felt they needed to invite us - our Members - to deal with this problem in the right way and to get this shameful problem out of the agenda. I think they did the right thing, and I'm happy that I'm among those who will obviously realize their trust. Now there are some individuals here, of whom I can also appreciate each of you, with rare exceptions, and therefore I would not like to be tempted to say 'we, you' to collect some wrong perception. I'm going to try to formulate something else from what I've been sketching here. A few years ago, we were all in Europe. We have come to it, and it seems to me that we have not all understood that we have actually committed ourselves to certain values, to some understanding that we are in fact all domestics and foreigners in Europe. Europe is like the former Yugoslavia, in fact, like our Slovenia. My colleague illustrated this difference with our last names. This Europe expects each member to assume the values that are common values. The one who doesn't understand it will remain a stranger in it. Nevertheless, he will have all the rights, including those that you deny to your citizens and neighbors of a different mother tongue and, I would say, with less happiness in life. Several speakers spoke very thoroughly about the traumas and dramas and tragedies through which Slovenia went to the final formation of its statehood. During and after World War II, many injustices have been committed that remain uncorrected, many will not be able to be corrected, some merely symbolically, with moral satisfaction, and, I would say, we still have a very sensitive work ahead of us, including our Members. If we wear ourselves out, if we destroy ourselves with the rhetoric of intolerance, hatred and non-culture, or then we will be able to produce the measure of solidarity and compassion that is essential for us to face the past and those tragedies that we all know have left a trail to this day. After all, this is the story of the Huda Cave and other such caves that are in Slovenia and unburied dead and unprocessed dramas. Is it wise to burden our society with new injustices, new pains and new traumas? Does anyone have the right to interfere with the correction of other injustices as a result of one unresolved injustice? Dear colleagues on this site, where you are few, the formal reasons you have cited as the reason for today's session are, in my firm belief, but only the curtain or, if you want, the cover, for the main strategic objective that you are pursuing: it is to create a psychosis of some extraordinary situation, some kind of pressure, you want to hire the Government with those who are secondary, you want to sharpen relations in society, including with neighbours, for example by blackmailing the ratification protocol at Croatia's entry into NATO, and by promising the nearness, so casually, to travel to The Hague at Mr. Sanader and Mr. Janša's famous close meeting, which is now the first step towards further escalation of relations between Slovenia and its neighbours. You offer us cooperation, some partnership, participation in the division of power and making important decisions for the country. How can we believe that if you do not want to talk about those issues that are essential to this country, but if you have all the time in mind how to get us involved in some tricks, in some procedural mazes, in some stories that have nothing in common with real problems and with the real interests of people? There's one thing I'd like to say before the end, a few words. With all the experiences and behaviour about the world and the democratic countries I have been living in, I have never heard such a harsh attack on the institution of the Constitutional Court as it was here today in this Chamber. As if the Constitutional Court were one of the partners in some kind of boxing match for power. I must say that this has, in fact, profoundly moved me, and it is very surprising that some of you have chosen such terminology and such a topic as a challenge to some kind of political struggle. Finally, I would just like to say that I think that, Mr Secretary of State, you, the Minister and you remain in your ministry on the right track. You have to insist. Returning your reputation, restoring your dignity to the state, restoring your dignity to those people who have been deprived of their criminal conduct, not this government, not the previous government, all governments since Slovenia's independence. I wish you every success and perseverance in this work, and I will support the Minister in this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Luka has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear co-workers and co-workers, representatives of the government and dear 26% of the applicants, since you are only 6 out of 23. I'd expect you to follow the interpolation if you've already suggested it. What we are doing today is a test of the maturity of the sense of human rights and a test of the strength of the Slovenian rule of law. A test whether we are able to defend these values, whether we like it or not. That's what this is all about. The government and the majority in the National Assembly are determined to defend the rule of law even when the individual measure is not liked but is fair and legal. Today we have spent more than 8 hours to allow a group of Members and Members of their frustration, xenophobia, and fear to sow in this Chamber and in the public at large. On the other hand, we have also used it to place a clear and loud line between what is the rule of law, what is equality before the law, which is worth the name of democracy and human rights, and what is abuse, manipulation, hatred and lies. It is a lie that today’s unresolved problem is equaled to millions of damages. That's a lie. It's a lie that the deleted received any compensation. That's a lie, too. So far, all legal judgments have rejected any compensation. And by the way, the sentence against the number of deleted is 0.1%. It is also a lie that they went to Brussels deleted, which apparently had documents. Let me explain. They went to Brussels, and only those who had managed to settle their status were able to go. Those who have failed to do so have not seen or should not see Bruises because of the illegal act of our country. We forget that if we do not resolve the issue of the deleted, they will be resolved by the European Court of Human Rights. At that time or there, they will not look at the amount of compensation, and we will regret that we have not resolved this issue in our country. If there's someone here who's threatening public finances, it's SDS. In the presentation of the interpolation, it was said that you are offering an opportunity to seek compromise on the issue deleted by constitutional law. But there is no compromise between human rights and the trampling of these rights. There is no compromise between the rule of law and the illegal state and there can be no compromise. The coalition has decided on the rule of law and human rights, regardless of whether this will result in public opinion polls or not, and there is no compromise. Some speakers who today propose interpellation, and years ago were warmed up members of the Union of Communists and were enthusiastic about the Yugoslav model of socialism, seem to still feel the way it did in the former system. Apparently, they believe that they can trample on the rule of law and human rights through the rule of law. Of course, it is true that constitutional law could overtake the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, if it becomes acceptable by constitutional law to trample on human rights, let us take a dangerous step back in the time of totalitarianism. Then tomorrow will legitimately banish all those who do not have Slovenian roots, after tomorrow all those who do not think as do the ruling majority. Where does such a story go, ask those who lost their lives on the Golem Island, Siberia, or Mathausn. The argument that the will of a democratic majority can undermine the rights of minorities is not true. I recall that Hitler's third Reich was also created on the basis of democratic decision-making. Judge for yourself if for this he had the right to trample on human rights and do what he did on Slovenian soil. It has been said that many of those who participated in war crimes during the war on Slovenia have been wiped out. I call on those who speak, and I challenge them to show this information, and to indict these people. I recall that concealing such information, if any, also constitutes a crime. So I think if you have this information, show it, because it's your marriage duty, or you're obviously bluffing because you don't have this information. Let me read you a piece of the story about the deleted, S. S., mentioned earlier today. "This is where I was born. I feel like a Slovene. As early as 1991, the father submitted applications for Slovenian citizenship for himself, for the mother and for us children. Later, that same year, I went on my own to the Domal Congregation, where we lived to ask for citizenship again. My employees made fun of me, a 14-year-old kid. They told me to go straight to the Bosnian embassy. Of course, the embassy couldn't do anything to me because I was born here. And the Slovenian officials made a fool of me. The employee asked me for papers, but since I didn't have them, I could only give her my name. She went somewhere when she came back, and she said she called the police. When I got sick, I couldn't see a doctor, because I didn't have health insurance because I lost my status. Only after S. S., in 2008, managed to acquire citizenship and social health rights, doctors found that it needed surgery. Today, it is known that a thousand hundred have been wiped out, including the long-standing exclusion from social security systems, have already died. Someone said if you told a lie big enough to keep repeating it, people would believe it sooner or later. I regret that in manipulating these deleted, you follow these pianist instructions by Josef Goebbles, the media strategy of the German Third Reich. Day after day, opportunity, session for the session, you repeat things that are not real, are completely fictional and belong to the domain of frightened, xenophobic, entwined and hostile extreme right. The Goebbels also remind me of manipulating concepts, and now they would be erased no longer, but only transferred. Others even claim that there was no erasure. All of this reminds me of the late Jörg Haider, who claimed that the Holocaust was essentially an effective employment policy, or reminds me of those who today claim that the Holocaust was not at all. It was deleted and not only in Slovenia, that is what the Council of Europe has also found. Pika! I hope, in addition to Josef Goebbels's pianist strategy, that you do not share his values with him. In today's debate, you even mentioned post-war killings. These killings were a big mistake, and the scenes from the Great Cave rocked me. These horrendous and most decisive convictions were the fruit of the decision to resolve matters outside the framework of respect for human rights and the rule of law. Consider for yourself whether it is possible to draw parallels with the arguments given at this interpretation. Because of my deep respect for the victims of the post-war beatings, I will abstain. Although I doubt it, he wants this tragedy called interpolation to end the issue of resolving the deleted issue. I hope that we can return to the strategic issues that concern our future, but I am aware that this is not possible unless we first clarify the basic concepts of the rule of law and human rights. I'm going to reject the Minister's motion for discharge. I will do this because I strongly believe in the values on which I have run for the National Assembly. These values are: democracy, human rights, tolerance, multiculturalism and, last but not least, commitment to the truth and respect for the Constitution and laws. Because my late old mother, too, would be wiped out if her sons weren't worried about it today. And if I quoted Goebbels earlier, I will now conclude with another quote for which I always try to be on the side of the truth, even though at some point this may be an unpleasant truth to whom. The words of the late President of the United States of America, Abraham Lincoln: "Sometimes you can deceive all people, you can always deceive some people, but you can't always deceive all people." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you. Before I give my word, I'd like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen. Those who think differently, what they first call liars, impatiences, xenophobics, compare them to Hitler, Goebbels, that sounds insulting. I'd ask you to avoid it. Mr Grimes, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u158	First of all, I would like to thank you sincerely for your intervention at this time, because that was exactly why I wanted to call. See how this all turns out when the situation in the Slovenian Parliament is displayed. While we're discussing arguments, you're insulting us. While we refer to specific legal facts, we refer to the opinion of the greatest legal experts, to your personal disqualification and to purely personal insults. What you are doing, including what we have just witnessed, is indeed an hate speech. And the worst thing about this hate speech is that you don't realize that you're using it yourself. Because you don't even recognize the opportunity to define yourself. It's automatic -- I don't know what's been said right now, everything from a nationalist to a "weak guy". Argument your claims, point out the facts and, please, say things that actually hold back! For as far as it is known, in some cases the European Court of Justice has already ruled in respect of so-called deleted persons, but in no case has there been a judgment in favour of the so-called deleted ones. So it's kind of a conversion of facts! I also do not know why it is used so easily all the time as an argument of the position of the European institutions. For the first time, this was based on information that went abroad; who sent some, and at what point, you probably know best. But I remember well when on one of the biggest Slovenian television shows on the main television show, someone who demonstrated support for the so-called deleted said to the question why it demonstrated, "Because my friends from Slovenia told me that 18,000 people in Slovenia were deprived of their citizenship." What a lie! All in Slovenia were offered citizenship and only had to be asked for it. They were also offered any status. Some of the delays that the minister spoke of before don't change that fact. Whoever wanted to, they could've arranged these things. I would also remind you that two other laws have been passed in the past period, which have made it easier to deal with all these issues and, of course, the one who wanted to do so. That's why, of course, operating on such numbers is, I must say, within the limits of what you've been talking about and what you've been so highly qualified for.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u160	Your answer was correct. However, I am surprised that while you think that the Slovenian court will be able to decide on what compensations, you assume that there will be no European compensation. So I wonder whether you think that the European Court is ruling on the basis of different legislation, or whether you have such low confidence in Slovenian courts and Slovenian judges, who will, after all, decide on damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you. Here you go as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u162	Just for a little while. The European Court of Justice is, of course, the last instance. We are an integral part of the European Union and everyone has this legal possibility. As everyone has always had the opportunity to refer to the Slovenian Constitutional Court, which in many individual cases has also ruled on these matters. The problem arose when it exceeded its powers under the Constitution, and also some of the political norms that have been in force since the French Revolution and then with one stroke, all of this has been suppressed in the same end and, in fact, this is the whole problem. And I'm taking this opportunity to take one warning. You said earlier that these were unpleasant events that happened after World War II. You specifically mentioned a really bad cave. They weren't unpleasant events. That was an outrageous crime. A crime against humanity that is not obsolete.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. But maybe I'll take this opportunity and I'll warn you first, or I'll jog the memory of the interpellationists with two facts, and I'll go 17 years back to know what we've done in this temple of learning or democracy. If you want to know the case when we gave something back to someone else in Slovenia in this way, I will tell you the following. The Denationalisation Act, which is said to have been adopted by you older colleagues on the other side in 1991, could therefore be presented or also presented to some of the younger ones who later came to the National Assembly. For all those who were not enrolled in the civil books that were then created by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in 1945, he envisaged the issue of the conclusions, I stress the conclusions and the entry into the civil register for re-entry. The post-war area! And why did this even happen? Because the Civil War in 1945 did not include these people in the civil books because it estimated that during World War II there were disloyal then authorities, they were not condemned, but people simply fled abroad in fear of a regime that you know so much about today. The authorities have decided to seize their assets because they did not become citizens of the newly formed socialist federal Yugoslavia. And so do we now, even during this period of time we are fixing these things backwards. And it's just that we're fixing these things back. And the second fact: those who have been deleted today are not interested in the number, in 1990 and 1991 they had an election right; in April 1990, in the elections, this right was most likely used by a large majority of them. And who won these elections? Demos, new coalition. A year later we had plebiscite, the result of plebiscite is known and these people still had election rights and had the opportunity, the opportunity to have been on this plebiscite and decided as they decided. These are two facts for which it is good that we have them before us, because after plebiscite in 1992, in the summer months these people had no longer had these opportunities. And they have also helped to create a self-sustaining sovereign state of Slovenia. So, from our colleagues today, we have heard a lot of things; firstly, in the introduction, we have heard a lot about ethics, about our own image, with great pathetic contributions, including with some concrete examples. On one particular occasion, because I have been there alone for twenty years, I will try to turn him down in the end, which was said today. Then we listened to colleagues who are psychologists at the same time, military strategists, and at the same time in one person judges and jury. Just as you have reasoned on the interpretation and supported it with some of your own - under the terms of the deed - I stress - "your own peculiar facts", is the Chief Prosecutor of the Constitutional Court, who ruled and ruled on the matter. And only indirectly is Minister Kresalov, who has decided to respect and respect the Constitutional Court. But you just don't want to hear it! It must be made clear that the Minister is not the one who caused this deletion, and that she would bear this responsibility today. And this government is not the one that caused this erasure. There is no doubt that the deletion was contrary to the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the principle of legality. This is clearly stated by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. You do not have the right to intervene in this assessment, nor do you who are currently applying for this interpretation. In fact, in dictatorships they decide what is in accordance with the Constitution, politics. In democratic countries, and in my opinion, Slovenia is a democratic state, which is decided by the Constitutional Court. It is clear, therefore, and after 15, 16 years, it could also be clear to you, investors of this interpretation, that the removal of a long time ago in 1992 actually occurred that at that time the State violated a fundamental constitutional principle. And if you have to call someone today, if you think it's true, it's the people who gave orders and instructions for these violations and these illegalities. It is therefore not entirely right that after so long you still do not allow and prevent to repair the heritage of Slovenian spring, the legacy of Slovenian democracy, which has many more positive qualities and gains than this problem that we are talking about today. Slovenia has dealt with all the governments and coalitions so far, in my opinion, very badly. Many say that we should look ahead - but what does this mean, as a rule, to look ahead? To get involved, to get involved, and we're a living case, in a fight with each other, but we don't know why we even got into this situation. That is why it is unacceptable for me to hear that they have been erased for themselves because, at the time of this provision, they have not arranged and accepted extremely liberal possibilities for regulating Slovenian citizenship. Further, as they are now and all these fifteen years accused and qualified as speculators and attackers against the state of Slovenia. I'm not saying that there's no one among them who might fit that description. However, when we ask ourselves how many people are involved, I simply cannot understand how 20,000 citizens out of 20 million can get on such a powerless group, in fact a powerless group, where there is a large majority at the lowest social bottom, and the more the poor, the more powerless they are, the more they would jump on them with their boots tied. I think and think that this is actually a shame, even if we are a young democratic Slovenian country. The charge of assaulting the state must also be proved before a court of law. Therefore, after seventeen years, it would finally be right for such persons, if they are known by the proposers, to inform, or at least in this Chamber after seventeen years, at least one, two or three names out loud once and the other authorities will react if they do. Talking about reparations is also absolutely unnecessary at this time and earlier in the capacity of politicising this really serious issue. For the legal basis for compensation is deleted and no decision on permanent residence issued by the Minister has been issued. Who and to what extent is entitled to compensation is judged in the rule of law by an independent court and not by a policy, even less by individual politicians, even by you who are arguing today's interpretation. And finally, the right address for the interpretation is therefore not Minister Kresalov and this government; the right addressee should be another government, the one who has enforced and sinned, and all those governments that have not corrected these errors since the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u166	Mr Vice President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It is indeed sad that today, when many too many people are concerned about whether they will have bread to survive themselves and their family, while the economists, together with the Government, are advocating the greatest possible limitation or uplifting of the economic and financial crisis, so that they can all get through it together, and today, on 1 April, we are engaged in the interpretation of Mrs Katarina Kresal's work and responsibility as Minister of the Interior. It is interesting that Madam Minister, as an excellent lawyer, with knowledge, determination, perseverance, even with her youth, and, if necessary, with male strength in the decisions taken, because Mrs Minister knows very well what she is saying and what her task is. I must say that I have no doubt that, together with my colleagues, I would not have achieved all my objectives, the common objectives of the government coalition: to help those who have been drawn, who also deserve the right of the legal, democratic State of the Republic of Slovenia; to regulate and complete what should have been done more than ten years ago. We know that the Minister is performing her duties well and is well aware of her mission. The expertise, ability, determination and value of trust are characteristics of the distinguished Minister. And the old river says that everything that doesn't kill strengthens. That is why I know that today's interpretation means for Mrs Kresalova, Madam Minister, an additional experience that strengthens and makes a person even stronger with the confirmation and awareness that the Ministry of the Interior, that is to say, the Minister and her colleagues, are on the right track, so that they are doing the right thing. Therefore, continue upright, determined, and courageous. I believe that the steel power that men and women as well as ministers have and positive energy lead to success. Therefore, I will not support today's proposal for interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Apparently, this interpolation here is only of interest to the Minister of Agriculture, not to those who are destined. I therefore regret that the Minister, Mrs Kresalova, will not be able to listen directly to what I am about to discuss. Today, many hurtful words have been made here, in particular by us opposition Members, that we will be insulted, that we will go to a personal level, both by the Minister and by you. In this debate, I have not observed any insulting thoughts. We didn't go to the personal level. But there was a lot of that on your part. I was particularly hurt by the fact that in the National Assembly it was said to our police officers or territorialists that "they were going cowboys in the war for Slovenia". The word spoken by Mr Zares and, of course, on behalf of the National Assembly, I personally apologize to all of this. I think it is unfair and, of course, I expect an apology to those who have defended our own Slovenia. It was said that today it would be wiser to consider some measures that would solve the crisis, which Slovenia is increasingly experiencing on its shoulders. I agree with that. That'd be right! As more and more people are unemployed, more and more pensioners are on the verge of survival, more and more children are without scholarships. Instead of addressing these problems, we must address the priorities of this government in order to pay compensation to those who are least entitled to it. It was said that there would be no compensation: Mr Krivic said that not only from one budget, from more - an ex-constitutional judge, would have to be allocated funds for damages, but now the legal representative of the so-called deleted. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not care that our country should in the future deal with compensation to those who do not deserve it, who will harm our country. Our client comes from a party that was crucial when Slovenia gained independence, when Slovenia was born. Madam Minister claims to act only on her duties and to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. One big lie! Here is the statement of ten eminent constitutional judges, or Constitutional Judges, where they wrote nicely: "It does not seem constitutionally correct that the decision of the Constitutional Court constitutes a direct basis for the issue of administrative decisions, as this is also not in accordance with the principle of the division of power as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution." There's a lot more here. It means that the legal basis is very precise, that it is not possible and is not constitutionally direct to issue decisions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Minister says, as well as some coalition Members, that we should put down the names of those who have cooperated with the aggressor. Both the Minister and you, from the coalition, I will introduce you to just one case. We have, still a living person, in Slovenia, which is connected to tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of postwar beatings, this person is also the father of one of the constitutional judges. And when he wanted to call this gentleman to say what he has to say, he certainly has a lot, unfortunately the court did not allow this hearing to be carried out by Mr. Anderlich, please calm down. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u169	Please, only Mr Grill has a word and I warn you about what you have all been talking about, about what everything is about, and if only to be limited to points, I should first limit the President of Parliament, who led at the outset. But since it was allowed for everyone to talk about everything, just to speak respectfully, I will continue with this practice. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. With this example, I just want to say how, in such a legal system as we have in Slovenia, we can achieve that the legal order will be valid for all that, on official duty, may be prosecuted or at least initiate proceedings against those who are least suspected of acting against the Slovenian country. In public, you also know ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, there are a lot of names, you probably know them, I know them myself, about people who, at the time of the aggression against Slovenia, have openly acted against Slovenia, threatened our own, and now those who claim these damages. The Minister's claim that the Slovenian Democratic Party is a principle against the correction of injustices - where has this been said? We want to, and if our idea, our proposal, our proposal for a constitutional law, were to be taken into account, we would have long ago passed a constitutional law that would allow the correction of injustices to all those women, children and men who have been wronged, but let us find out. Not now, however, are there many opportunities for those who have not been to Slovenia or who have been to appear to have applied, so that they can now enforce this status and claim compensation. You're saying there won't be any compensation. The script was very successfully introduced, obviously also with you colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. If anyone doesn't have this script, I'm also calling the public to call me back, I'll send Mr Krivica's instructions by e-mail. It says very well how to proceed, as it relates to accepting procedures as well as taking part in damages. I quote, but it has been written to Mr Pahor, as well as to you: "If you are to go into proceedings solely with the law, you must strictly limit yourself to what the Constitutional Court order requires. If the position on this law requires a referendum, the Constitutional Court will be able to reject it in this way." It means that the issue of these decisions is, in essence, now a ban on any other intervention. Next. "If only one word of compensation is mentioned in the text, this will prevent the Constitutional Court from prohibiting the referendum. [[...]] Whoever permits the adoption of such a law will therefore make it impossible and ruin everything." You've remembered that very well. And finally, allow another bitter remark, too, is Mr. Krivica's quote: "Do you realize how unconscious and cynical it may be that the universal reconciliation of the concerned is that the compensations passed through the court cannot be at all, but virtually no one will get them there." It's like it's a sin for an injured person to want to get the damage done. But we're going to take the next step. The issue of decisions is therefore the first step of this instruction, which you are skillfully implementing. However, the following instructions concerning compensations were the same. I quote Mr. Guilty again. "... The only smart and politically sustainable is this position that Mr Golobič has said." Now we quote him: "... There's no way to settle the issue of compensation. Of the 4,000 decisions of this year, maybe 5 - none have been taken." Today we know that Mr Todorovic has already received his first judgment on compensation. It'll be legal or even higher. But please don't interrupt me. "... If there is a need to determine what the law requires, it will be necessary to examine this thoroughly first, to wait for the determination of the case law, which is just about to begin." You're good at preparing the ground, so that the vote of all these damages will be. And, of course, continue: "... The second is, of course, the offer of flat-rate compensation, but this also needs to be thoroughly examined only after the country has come out of the current crisis." Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, these are Mr Krivica's instructions. If you didn't get this e-mail, I'll be happy to send it to you. I believe you've got it, and I also believe that after this scenario you and your colleagues were talking to each other in the coalition. Basically, today again proves how bad the relationship is with the coalition or our territories, with the police, with our pensioners, with our students, with women, with all these. Instead of pursuing goals to help these, you are just looking for a way to harm the Slovenian state and to help unjustifiably our so-called deleted ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! Of course, in our debates they appear and as a red thread they draw two words. It's a "legal state" and it's deleted. But to say something about the rule of law. We are all talking about the rule of law, we want the rule of law, but we are far from the rule of law. Very, very far. I'm sorry. Those who read the 2008 report on the work of the Constitutional Court, February 2009, were able to see with your own eyes how far we are from one true rule of law. That's if I just go to the legislator's unresponsibility. Look, constitutional rights, constitutionally guaranteed. One brief quote from the report of the Constitutional Court: "In view of the lack of response of the legislator, it is particularly important to stress that certain decisions of the Constitutional Court have been disregarded for years. It is particularly worrying when human rights are threatened as well. "I will not list human rights. People know that the Constitution guarantees the right to work. What's going on today? People lose their jobs, people can't achieve that right, nobody takes them into account. Then the right to a healthy environment, not to mention it. The oldest unrespected decision comes from 1998, which was deleted from 2003 - that is, ten years ago. This is a decision establishing the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the Law establishing the Communities and establishing its areas defined by the Koper Municipality - just one case. But there's more. This deleted is the second oldest decision, dated 3. 4. 2003, on the basis of which the legislator should abolish, within six months of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-constitutionality of the law governing the status of nationals of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia to those who were 26. 2. In 1992, so-called deleted, deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, does not recognise permanent residence from that date. The decision is still not respected for more than five years after the expiry of the deadline. These are the facts. We have to admit that. The deadline for the harmonisation of the non-constitutional regulation has long expired for other decisions, such as the law on pension and disability insurance, the law on victims of war violence and so on. I would like to suggest that you carefully read the report of the Constitutional Court and you will see that speaking about the rule of law in Slovenia is just a floscule and a demagogic. I'm afraid that's the truth. But as far as the deleted ones are concerned, if I touch this darkness myself. It's just a written society, it's a group of cases that are so different between themselves that it's impossible to throw them into one package, into one basket, because it would cause additional injustices. I therefore believe that the matter should be handled selectively, from case to case. Look what we find in this company. There are also some aggressors, there are some traitors, so to speak, there are some speculators, there are some ignorant people, there are some who, I know, out of negligence, for example, they haven't taken matters seriously. There are some who were rightly absent, for example, they were not in Slovenia at the time. I don't know, there is such a written society here that I think that without a selective approach to solving cases there will actually be additional injustices. As for the role of Madam Minister in this matter, there are a few shadows that fall on the decision of the Minister. This is the case. At the same time, there was a law on tariffs, and at the same time many things happened. I tell you what people say; what we hear, what they write to us, what they warn us. It is not necessary to hold everything, but, for example, the role of the Minister in this tragedy has been deleted, or only one tragedy. There is no doubt that she has a major role to play, but there are other roles, men's roles, writers, directors. And here's something interesting. Who exactly is that director? If I'm going to English literature, I'm going to the same tragedy as Othello, who is that Jago who threw the original handkerchief. Madam Minister obviously plays the role of Othela. But there's something else. Who's gonna profit from this? You mean deleted? I believe there will be some compensation, but someone else will profit. That's, I mean, that director, that writer, I'm afraid to say, this is the Bar Association, and we're not going to be so direct, because you're going to say we're talking bad about others. There is nothing random about politics, and the whole thing is made and planned with a certain scenario. There's no way this happened right now. There's no way some marriage happened before. So let the shadow fall on this thing anyway. And I just hope it doesn't. I sincerely hope that the Minister's decision is correct, but we will see below. I also believe that someone will have to take responsibility if everything does not work out as well as is now being spoken here in this Chamber. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Ministers, all of you who are with me in the service of this house! Before that, he was one of my fellow workers, as young Luke would say, who was very interested in how some of them could have gone to Brussels. If you couldn't tell him, Colonel Mate or Romšek, if you couldn't tell him then Foreign Minister Rupel, or any of his colleagues who could easily get information from their suppliers, I'm just answering him that they had to have a status. People like that are in this country, too. Now I would focus on what I wanted to say to everyone today. Today, April 1st has its own symbolism, it in itself is absolutely stimulating, at least to me, the association. For example, we are dealing with interpolation today, which is really full of lies. Don't be impatient, I'll show them to you. Or that association that reminds us of the great Nazi propaganda minister, a small one under the law and a thunderous one in the language of the famous Joseph, who united his knowledge of propaganda into a famous river, that three times repeated lies become the truth. What happens to that lie that's been repeated ten times, a hundred times, a thousand times? For example, the issue of deleted persons must be linked to aggressors. At first, it was a story. With a single move of radio over thousands of addresses, home addresses, addresses of permanent residences, Slovenia has erased at least the same number of persons of all kinds of human rights, to people who have received letters or letters to these addresses, perhaps sometimes even some flowers. In spite of clear instructions from the Constitutional Court, the Slovenian State has pressed the problem of the deleted to an angle and has avoided it as infectious substances. As Professor Ljubo Balcon has clearly formulated, it was not the failure of possible petty state bureaucrats or individual, perhaps over-stressed people, cops, anyone else, but the systematic state policy of banishing unwanted non-Slovaks. There are 26 at the Ministry of the Interior. 2. Without a legal basis, some who were born in other Yugoslav republics could have been the descendants of their parents there, and some bureaucrats might have felt that they were born Slovenian and were classified, some of whom were volunteers of the liberation war for Slovenia. It was not a question of citizenship, and it was precisely the fact that the distinction between citizenship and permanent residence, which causes many of the ignorant - rightly caused by overcrowding - gives political manipulators an extremely extensive political space, also lays down a large part of the false claims before us of the lying material that 23 of our colleagues gave him the name of interpolation. The truth is that there is much less basic human rights attached to citizenship than to permanent residence. Those who have permanent residence in the country can work, operate, buy real estate, get state documents, all state documents. They can have their phone number. A lot of people could get certificates at the time you were being shared. The biggest lie on which the interpolation is based, however, is the fact that someone has not applied for citizenship and that the state has therefore deprived him of the status of permanent resident. As the former President of the Constitutional Court, Prof. Danica Vidam Lukič, made clear in this regard when he asked them to apply for citizenship, the State did not inform the people that if they did not acquire citizenship, they would lose their right to permanent residence. No one could therefore expect a country in which some have lived and worked for a long time, while some have just been born, to take away their permanent residence and thus throw them into the illegal and all kinds of problems that we have heard about today. That is exactly what the executive authorities of that country have done without any basis in the constitution or in any legislative decision. Therefore, the indications of interpolation are indeed worth today, 1 April. However, I hope that the initial "fucked" this time will be much less than the proponents have promised. I even hope that someone has already found out that he's been thoroughly "fucked". That the competent authority, and in particular the proposers of the Ministry of the Interior, together with the ideologies of racist attitudes towards the work of the Slovenian population, were well aware of what moves they were taking, is evident also from the time of adoption of the legislation in question. It is also clear from the amendment proposed by Prof. Lev Kreft to the DDP, Aurelio Juri to the Assembly of Municipalities and William Sekeres to the Assembly of the United Work, that Slovenia, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, will guarantee the same rights as it has enjoyed to date to the current SFRJ citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, then Parliament would not be willing to accept this. So what is the truth about this story? What is the point, in much of this mandate that we are living on, really? Interpellation is just one of the ingredients in the known military scheme, strategy, tactics, surgery. The strategy is already known from Nazi ideology and was well described by Prof. Dr. Dimitrij Rupel when he wrote about his very important colleague today in the 1990s. In short, it says, "The worse, the better for us." Tactical enforcement in the current situation, when those who have first deleted the name "social" from their name, are concerned with solving social issues in times of crisis, is a whole range of parallel measures with which they can be attacked in the middle, with their sides and sometimes behind their backs. Just a few of those that we have already experienced are quick to mention: the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on Iv Vajgle; the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture and so on - again on Iv Vajgle in Belgrade; the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we had already held on 24.3.2009 - again on Iv Vajgle and others; the establishment of a constitutional commission due to the constitutional law on deleted; today's interpretation of Minister Kresalovo; the request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the number of deleted. This is just what is being seen at this moment about the tactical level of measures by which SDS has been wiped out to provide a creative solution to the crisis in our country and to resolve social issues. At the operational level, we experience today's explanations and evil justifications for individual paragraphs of interpolation; otherwise, every day in this high house, the topic of deleted vomit from all those who do not want to tackle serious issues, as well as those who sometimes try, in despair and pain due to lost elections, to link this very pain with a body of enormous costs, if the issue, at least partly, will be resolved in the near future. The general characteristics of the proposed interpolation are extremely poor language, ignorance of the dictionary, conceptual impreciseness and slanderous lies; and all of this strikes from every unwritten page - there are many copied. In short, with Germanism, they would call it "slamparium." I therefore recommend to 23 applicants a meeting with some elementary school teacher of the Slovenian language, so that she can quickly introduce them in secret, now they have apparently been hidden, at least about the right setting of the commas. Perhaps at a moment of good will, if she does not immediately lose her knowledge, she will alert them to some sort of Serbo-Croatianism, such as "without yes" - "without yes" on the other hand. Finally, it would certainly be helpful to warn them of inconsistencies, but in any serious reading they immediately have the character of great stupidity. I believe most of those present have noticed them, but I have to point out what they are. For example, the commas are missing, but sometimes they're too many on pages 1, 2, 4, 5 - let's be enough for now. Serbo-Croatian "no yes", on the other hand, "no yes", I have already mentioned. The conceptual impreciseness on page 2 reads: "We reiterate the proposals." I read that before and that on the top of the other side, and there's nothing about it. And "again" to them. Then on page 7 is the title of point 2. This address says that "the reason for the interpolation is undemocratic..." and the Minister is to interpel due to the undemocratic disregard of the outcome of the referendum on "technical law." And I ask the proponents that if it were democratic ignoring - then would it be possible?Oh, my God! And that's the real thing? The democratic ignorance that is taking place under the right democratic authority, and this is O. It's a matter of business. Then there's no interpolation for that sort of thing. That's the content of it. Or sooner, on page 5, when they complain like that, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u175	Ravnikar, please. Thank you very much. No, it really isn't. It's a useful guide. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u176	Please! I'll do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u177	but give them to the proposer in writing [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u178	Vice President! I am only talking about this interpretation and the reasons why I can justify my relationship with it. On page 5 it says nicely that: "the previous coalition under the leadership of the SDS has been working, virtually all the time, to negotiate constitutional law, but has stumbled upon ideologically completely deaf ears." Yeah, I feel real sorry for you because it looks like the SDS only needs ideologically obedient ears. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] And since I've told lies, I'm going to follow the vice president's instructions right now, and I'm going to mention only one thing, the one that concerns me and my family. On page 2 of this interpolation, they happily wrote that "Slovenia, as the only country in the world at the time of its creation, offered citizenship to all its inhabitants." I assure you that she has not offered me - nothing; to my children, to minors then - nothing; parents, I have still alive - nothing! And my boars - nothing! That is to say, it has been discriminatory at least as much as it is to a lot of people, obviously, that we are dealing with today, even to me. But I take it as a lie that she offered it to everyone because I believe she didn't have time to offer it to me, and that's why it didn't. So if I go back to the origins of this magnificent interpolation, then I can only find out, for the first time: that this is not an improper execution, which could not otherwise be any reason for interpolation, for it is neither illegal nor any other non-refoulement. Second, I've already told you about non-democratic ignorance. I can only add one more thing: that one opinion of the applicants on a specific court decision, even if it is a decision of the Constitutional Court, is the responsibility of the State authorities - including those led by the majority SDS government -, the duty of the State authorities to enforce and respect judicial decisions. On the third reason, on creating inequality before the law, I will say only one thing, on the thirteenth page is this; except by ascribeing a criminal act to people who have not been mentioned in the seventeenth years, the reason is simply by showing the immeasurable goodness and fairness of the applicants. As far as their justice and goodness are concerned, let me remind them once again that the criminal record is also a crime. And the fourth reason, the threat to the public finances system; if anyone threatens it, if there is only compensation to be paid to anyone, but by then there will be many already absent; not from this hall, but from this world - or we may, so - will be an essential element of the fact that the illegal situation has been going on for seventeen years. And if anyone sincerely thought to limit any damage, then they would rush into regulating the situation. However, nothing harms the proposers or worries during the crisis the forecast of millions of euros spent for the proposed referendum. So what's it really about? In fact, it is a matter of compensation for the issue of the rule of law and social state, which, if it is legal and social, must be provided to a person, including social rights, regardless of gender, age, religion, even nationality, but it is certainly not necessary to take into account the possible dictatorship of applicants. In the end, let me put it this way. Dear Minister Kresalova, you and your colleagues are going with all congratulations - mine too - and thanks. The Charter, which is called the Interpellation, which is so bad, on several sides of the lie, I will also reject the vote. However, I would like more knowledge of Slovenian and something of the image from the heart of the proposers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today someone has been talking about top issues, if they're erased in these times of crisis, they're not top issues. Of course, I absolutely agree with that. It would be much better if we talked about how and how to help the Slovenian economy. Surely, though, it is not the top theme of the lawyers we discussed so long and so widely a day ago. In the SLS we strongly oppose the Minister's suggestion in response when comparing Slovenia's request to foreigners to regulate their status with the Holocaust. The Slovenians are not impatient, we're obviously too tolerant. We ask the Government and the Minister: Are not all unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court equally important? Why is it just this top theme? And there's something else about Christianity. It bothers me that in the opposition, we also have a lecture on the subject of Christianity. You know, in the previous 45 - year regime, Christianity has been treated strangely. And many, especially those who were faithful, at that time felt erased or inequitable, even more branded, not to use any more difficult word. In any case, those who went to church were treated differently than those who did not. I ask you to respect this question. However, I am deeply disappointed at the level of today's debates on both sides, especially those that are personally offensive. And I appeal to all of us to be respectful to each other. Under the law governing the application of residence, such registration is an obligation and a legal duty for persons who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. This duty is laid down by law for individuals, since it applies to all persons with permanent residence, regardless of nationality at all. This is actually a permanent residence. However, there is an extremely important difference with this in relation to which the law also explicitly stipulates that foreigners not only have to, but at the same time they can only register their permanent residence with us if they have a valid residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia. While permanent residence is a legal status, permission is something to be asked for and obtained. Therefore, to obtain a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia, if this is a foreigner, and to apply for the residence after this condition has been fulfilled. All those circumstances are relevant, including in relation to the so-called deleted. However, they are constantly blurring or even misrepresenting themselves in public. There is no legal permit for domestic citizens to reside in their own country. Domestic citizens in their own country do not need or apply for residence permits in their own country. Thus, in Yugoslavia, all Yugoslav citizens could reside anywhere in Yugoslavia. And as is known, there were many in the Republic of Slovenia. A foreigner is anyone who does not have the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, according to Article 2 of the current Foreign Act. These provisions would apply to these foreigners from the former common country immediately if, under extremely favourable conditions, the possibility of obtaining our citizenship by prolonging the acquisition was not offered. Initially for two months and later the deadline was further extended. Under such conditions - as is now notoriously known - the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia has gained some 170,000 new people. The number of irregular positions with the number I mentioned shows with all possible clarity how it was possible in Slovenia to fulfil the obligation to register or use the possibility of acquiring our citizenship. It follows from this that these persons have not been deprived of their right of residence. She could not even be taken away from them because, as Yugoslav citizens, she did not have or need it until then. Nothing that didn't exist until then, so no one could take it from you. In practice, this is confused by the loss of a legally regulated permanent residence if they have neither acquired citizenship nor a permanent residence permit as a condition for applying for permanent residence. There is often a public statement of why the Republic of Slovenia has not made the same strict request for all foreigners as well. The answer is in the palm of your hand. All the other aliens have been foreigners by now. They had to have such an orderly residence permit. In this respect, the creation of the Republic of Slovenia as a single country could not be and was not crucial. Individual representatives, who were then active in the responsible places in the internal affairs bodies on a temporary basis, have consistently stressed and reiterated that their bodies have acted perfectly legally and in accordance with the rules in force at that time. In addition to such a state authority, it must not and cannot act. At this point it is not possible to go into detail that the decision of the Constitutional Court, as such and from this point of view, is completely wrong and wrong. The removal of these persons was lawful and carried out in accordance with the law. However, the legislation in this regard was massively violated by the fact that, in particular at that time and during that sensitive period, it went silently over the fact that the authorities did not consistently act against persons who had not settled their status and thereby violated our legislation. Today, the Republic of Slovenia is experiencing a violation of their rights. If we did not have formal support in the Constitutional Court's decision, this would not be possible. Therefore, in this case, as well as in other cases, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not black and white. In this case, as in other cases, grays are detected. We are in the Slovenian People's Party, and we have always advocated a solution to this problem through constitutional law and individual treatment of each case individually. It is right that injustices, insofar as they have been committed, are also eliminated. But we certainly didn't do it long and hard. We also advocated this when we were expelled from the government led by the Magi at that time. Robbery. That's when we supported the interpretation of the then Minister of the Interior. Today we will repeat this support for interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Except for the introductory words, Minister Kresalov did not come forward. However, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who said a few bitter words at the expense of her colleague Grims, also mentioned me in the context of an event in Mežica. From these events in Mizica, all I have to do is live in Mizica. Not anymore. At the time, Miro Friday had not even written about this event in Mizica. By rejecting any insinuation from Mrs. Krebs, who will have to treat these frustrations elsewhere. If you had a little less hatred for me, you'd be better off doing your job. Maybe we could even laugh here and there. Today there was a lot of talk about lies, truth, justice. Truth and justice are sisters. And it is good to find out the truth, to find out what the truth was in this case, in the case of deleted and then to address justice issues. Anyone who has been wronged is right to make amends. Absolutely. Because the correction of the wrongs is a civil code. But this should apply to all cases. It's not like we're doing this in a way that's pretty selective. At times, our colleagues on the left were not at the best of times. Some people love to stress how each one has the right to his or her own truth. The truth is usually one. The question is how and how we can get close to it. But for 50 years, only their truth, one and only, was valid. Whether it was the truth or it was a lie, a deception, or a monopolistic truth, of course, is another question. About the damages we're talking about here today. Accurate understanding and reading of the coalition contract suggests that all the deleted can receive compensation. Today, we have heard from the coalition Members and the Minister on several occasions that the conduct of the State, that the conduct of the officials was unlawful when the records were deleted or transferred - whatever we call it - was illegal. However, the Coalition Agreement on page 50 states that the right to reparation will be enforceable in cases of unlawful conduct. Ergo, the removal was unlawful and in cases of unlawful conduct, in the spirit of Article 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the wrong must be corrected or compensated in this case. But when we talk about rights, compensations, the rule of law and the like, I would ask you something else: When will the war damage caused by the war for Slovenia and the Slovenians be restored? The issue of war damage has never been explicitly raised in this short history of Slovenia. Probably because some were unable to decide whether they had come to rescue us from the south or had come to attack us. Therefore, the question of who attacked Slovenia in 1991 is also often raised. I think for all of us here the answer is relatively easy: it was JLA. But I'll tell you the Koroška case. There was tremendous damage on the Maribor road during the war. Two days of fierce fighting took place. When these people on the Maribor road wanted to report damage to the insurance company, all the insurance companies said, "No, it was war, the war damage of the insurance company is not covered." "Oh. K." said Korosca, "we'll try to get the damage recovered in another way." They went through the police and the D.A.'s office. What did the prosecution find? The prosecution found that at the time he attacked Slovenia, that this damage was caused by an unknown perpetrator. So Slovenia was then attacked by an unknown perpetrator. There are written documents of the prosecution in Slovenj Gradc. In 1991, Koroška was the one who won the first victory in the Holmac. A few years later, Ljubljana, a politician, also from this National Assembly in Koroška, exported a beautiful affair called the Vič-Holmec affair. With this affair, part of Slovenian politics wanted to discredit Korean police and Korean territorialists. And to this day, no one has ever apologized to these people for these lies. If we move on. This Government, which also sits in my Koroška colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs, gave thanks to Korošci, in gratitude to Ravna in Koroškem just at the end of last week, to one notary town, the only notary city and three notary cities, which gave Slovenia Castle and Radljam a sign of great gratitude. Thank you for everything Koroška has given for this country. And apparently this government has begun to punish Koroška again. We have also heard here today that they mean the removal of the greatest human rights violation in Slovenia. I wouldn't rank human rights myself like that. But I would warn you that people have fallen for Slovenia alone. The cops fell, the territorials fell, the civilians fell. I was alone as a journalist watching the fights on Holmac and Vic. I was alone as a journalist at three territorial funerals and police officers at the time. And where on the scale and this scale of yours is human life if the issue of deleted is the biggest human rights violation in Slovenia alone?Oh, my God! Then where is human life?Oh, my God! Is administrative extermination a greater injustice than murder, murder?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr President of the Government, Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today is a sad day, and on this day, I'd like to say the following. Years ago, when I had not yet been involved in politics, I often, when the word applied to people who had been erased, felt that it was right for the State of Slovenia to delete them from its list. Of course, I was firmly convinced that those people who had somehow acted hostilely against Slovenia had been erased. I had a wrong opinion. Children, women, mothers, were also erased. Therefore, I firmly believe that interpolation also has a positive effect, as many people will learn about the injustices that have occurred to many people, the Slovenes, who have lived and lived in Slovenia. The Minister's full support and congratulations on the upright attitude and respect for the laws. Of course, to those who have not been given a cradle to speak the truth, the present day does not show any resentment, for it is the day of April 1, when something else can be said than the truth. Of course I won't support the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. And a nice greeting to the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Council of Ministers! For quite some time, I have been deciding whether to take part in this debate, which, by the opposition, on the ground of interpretation and in the debate, is accompanied by full lies, half-truths, instigations, deceptions and debates, which have nothing to do with the topic of interpretation submitted by the Group of Members and Members of Parliament with the first-signed Member, Mr Jožet Tank. In fact, interpellation is filed against the interior minister because he enforces the decision of our highest judicial authority, this is the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. The Court, elected by this legislative body, this National Assembly and trusted it to defend our Constitution by its decisions and direct all those who do not respect the Constitution and its fundamental provisions. The Constitutional Court, in its decision, stated in the Constitutional Court's decision to quote the decision: 'The Ministry of the Interior, to them', probably deleted,'must, on an official basis, issue supplementary decisions establishing their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia of 26. 2. 1992 onward." This was a long time ago in 2003. This requirement of the constitutional provision has already been repeated several times by the debaters today, but the truth and the facts must also be repeated several times in this House if we want the fact to become and remain the truth. Sadly, some repeat lies and falsehoods with the desire to become the truth. I'm sure they won't make it this time, either. Such a story of interpolation was already seen and heard at the interpretation of the former Interior Minister Dr. Rad Bohinec. The applicants of this interpolation did not make any effort to at least remove from the interpolation those parts which had already proved to be a real blank shot in the past, since they do not have the basis for any intellectual or professional interpretation of the interpolation, which has already been demonstrated in the interpolation of Dr. Rad Bohinca. In large part, the interpolation was copied and they did not try to update it at least. The previous interpolation on this subject took place almost exactly five years ago, it's 30. 3. 2004 Interpellators say they're not against deleted. If that were true, they had time to resolve the problem of implementing the constitutional provisions relating to the problem deleted in the period 2004 to 2008. They didn't solve it. Their experiments focused mainly on how to avoid a decision by the Constitutional Court. The experiment with constitutional law has also gone this way. Fortunately, this was overlooked by the National Assembly and did not fall into line with the motion for today's interpretation to resolve the deleted in an illegal way and in effect create additional rights. At the same time, they offer only their truth and do not try to listen to each other. This also shows today's debate on the interpretation itself. If the applicant had advocated the legality and supremacy of the anarchy law, which appeared in certain areas, he would have initiated an intervention for Minister Dragutin Matei by failing to take into account the provisions of the Constitutional Court and immediately dissolved the status of the deleted following an official duty. Interpellation against the former Minister would, of course, be the only rights, since he acted contrary to his appointment as Interior Minister when he committed himself to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the decisions of the Constitutional Court issued by this highest judicial authority. Unfortunately, however, the interpolation was not filed by the opposition at the time. Probably because of the great tolerance to the government, which she thought would only solve that issue. Resolved status is our duty, for we owe it to all who have been wronged to correct it, regardless of the area. It is true that there was an opportunity for us to settle our status immediately after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also likely that some were hesitant about what to do, for at that time it was rather uncertain. And people were afraid for themselves and their loved ones. And it is certainly true that many did not even know that they were foreigners or that they had been erased and that they needed to settle their status. Simply because they were born in Slovenia, they were educated in Slovenia. At least one of the parents was Slovenian, and they did not even consider that Slovenian citizenship or residence status should be regulated. Simply put, these people thought they were Slovenians or Slovenes. It's not just some fictional story. I know a case like this when the girl found out that it was erased only when she wanted to marry the Slovenian and create her own home and family. She's lived here all the time since she was born. Its homeland has always been and is now Slovenia. She suddenly became a foreigner, even though she was abroad only for the purchase of goods that had not been obtained in Slovenia or in the former Yugoslavia at the time or were much more expensive. Such stories and even more sad stories have been heard today, and they confirm that injustices that need to be corrected have occurred when they are erased. In fact, we have not heard a story in any other direction, which we are also talking about today or about which the proponents want to explain that there will be a lot of irregularities here. So it is not true that only those who were speculators or were actually on the other side of the war of independence for Slovenia were wiped out. Maybe someone's like that, but they're definitely still people. And if any fault is proven to them, they must also be responsible for illegal acts at any time in accordance with Slovenian law. And if anyone knows anyone like that, he must also be reported to the law enforcement authorities. I do not know such cases, although I myself have been an active participant in the self-sustaining war. It is true, however, that at that time many former JLA officers joined the Slovenian side and helped Slovenia with their work and knowledge, that the war lasted relatively short time and was not as cruel as in the former republics of Yugoslavia. The applicants are gravely misleading the Slovenian public with some compensation for the deleted, especially with their calculations and the amount of these. We don't know if there's gonna be any compensation or not. If we play a little bit of statistics that predicts who will win the elections or how Slovenians will decide on any referendum issue, I must say that in the sample of 700 to 1,000 voters with more than 1,400 electoral beneficiaries, we know pretty well how to predict the final result. Especially when he shows us the good ones. The sample shall be less than a tenth of the percentage. We all refer to the correctness of the prophecy, especially when it is in our best interests. And now at the circus we have 24,000 deleted already issued over 4,000 legal decisions. That's a good 16%. And we've got 30 lawsuits filed, six of them legalized, and there were no damages. Which means, of course, that if we look at it statistically, there's not actually going to be any compensation. I'm not saying there won't be any in the future. Someone's probably going to sue the state and claim compensation for being injured. Of course he'll have to prove it in court. And also the court, which the opposition is now unduly pushing into various lobbyes, must decide on the eligibility of compensation and the amount of compensation. And if he's entitled to compensation, he has to get it. I understand the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior as political pressure on both the Minister and the Government, which has committed itself to acting in accordance with the laws, the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, with the desire to violate our unity, to try to bring unrest into the coalition and thus to achieve the dissolution of the coalition. You're not gonna make it. At least not on that question, I'm sure you don't. I will not support the interpretation, because in the work of the Minister I see nothing illegal, but only the implementation of the Government programme in the part where it commits itself to respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This also means decisions of the Constitutional Court or other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! This afternoon's the 21st. 11. 2008: "I swear to respect the constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia." These were the words of Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Ministry of the Interior, when she confirmed what she, as President of the Liberal Democracy, insisted that, as a fundamental guide to the operation of our party, she was focusing on respect for the rule of law. She also made this very clear in her presentation as a candidate for Minister. And to follow his words, in fact, the debate is today. Because if that wasn't the case, there wouldn't actually be this interpolation. That's why this interpolation is also an opportunity to reconfirm this direction, which I think is the only right one. The only law that will allow Slovenians and Slovenians to feel that they live in a state of law, that they respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that when they are wronged, there will be legal means in this country to prove this injustice. So this relationship with the rule of law is important to us. Although today the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe here in this Chamber has honored the work of this assembly with his visit, I regret that there was no one on the part of the opposition to participate in a brief discussion with him. But his understanding of today's debate went this way. How, or do I quite understand that today you are discussing the interpretation of the Minister who is struggling to regulate the decisions of the Constitutional Court, he said, "from the country I come from, so from Great Britain, we have exactly the opposite practice. We would be in a position to interpel the minister if he did not." That is why, of course, I clearly support the Minister's guidelines and, of course, I also thank her for her clearly defined position in my pre-commitment statement, i.e. by rejecting the arguments cited by the interpellation's proponents. I would like to do it for a short time, therefore, because people are always asking us what they are like and what are the realisations between individual relationships. So the decision of the Constitutional Court was perfectly clear. A certain group of people coming from the republics of the former common country took place in 1992 in which the Constitutional Court found that it was illegal. So they were deprived of the right to stay permanently. On the basis of this injustice, therefore, they were harmed by this unlawful act, for they lost certain rights and were cast into a way of life that was actually unapproachable to them. In fact, by its decisions, the Minister follows the Constitutional Court's decision and also establishes a clear reference to the Constitutional Court's decision, on the one hand, for all those to whom the additional decisions actually confirm that they have settled their status themselves during this period, and clearly states that for all others it will be necessary to amend an additional law, which will, of course, be the subject of discussion both in the Government and in the parliamentary procedure. Complementary decisions, of course, mean the implementation of a constitutional decision. However, compensation is, of course, a matter of judging the courts and not the Ministry of the Interior. And here again is a clear definition of the ministry, the minister and this government, that of course respects the independence of the judiciary, because of course any different conduct would be illegal and, of course, illegal. This means that the fact of unlawful deletion does not establish liability for damages until the damage caused by the removal has also been proven. And speaking of endangering public finances, allow me to re-make this comparison, which has already been said here today, but needs to be repeated. Therefore, the interpolation proponents are re-equipped at this point with a series of non-real data. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 30 applications have been filed so far. Of these, six judicial proceedings have already been completed and twenty-four have been opened. And those who are closed have ended up rejecting the lawsuits. So far in Slovenia, no one has been legally compensated for the disappearance, and the so-called Todorović case speaks of the fact that the judgment which has been passed is still unlawful and that the judgment relates to the period when the supplementary decisions have not been issued at all. Why is respect for the law important? Let's see which claims, which numbers and facts speak of lawsuits and damages in Slovenia that are not related to these cases. In 2007 and 2008, a total of two thousand two hundred and eighty civil damages were filed in the Republic of Slovenia against the country in various cases. The highest number of complaints brought by citizens against the State is in dispute with compensation for the incorrect work of the state authorities. These are about six seventy-seven, totalling ten-and-a-half billion euros. Claims for compensation for the objective responsibility of the State shall be followed. These are 859, totalling EUR 400 million. Let me just say it again. Only in 2007 and 2008, the state is sued in 2,258 cases, totalling EUR 11 billion. And when we talk about eraseds today, of course, the question here is: Will the rule of law hold? Will the decisions be constitutional, so will the decisions of the Constitutional Court be implemented? And today, when we talk about how this country's attitude towards deleted persons is, of course, a clear parallel is being made, as is the attitude of this country towards all these claims relating to the irregular work of the state authorities. This is a message to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia today. The legal order in that country will be protected irrespective of whether it is a case of an illiterate cleaner or of any other February. It is therefore right that we are talking about these differences, which, of course, I regret that they arise between the coalition and the opposition. Because I think that respect for the rule of law should be the shared leadership of all of us who are also performing here in this high assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I myself believe that today's interpretation would be successful only if the National Assembly unanimously voted against the interpretation tabled. This is the only way to keep our face as a parliament as a democratic society. But everything else is, of course, an abuse of democracy. For the abuse of democracy is that today we are discussing the interpretation with the work of the Minister of the Interior, who has decided with the full support of the Government to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. And besides, if we analyze the situation that is already behind us somehow, we can find that we have actually exhausted all legal possibilities in solving this problem. We have tried to create a law that has not been put into practice because a referendum has been held and, of course, the people have also made a decision because of the wrong data that they were then in public, otherwise than of course it could have been expected. The next proposal, which was drafted, was a constitutional law. For a few moments, some lawyers may have considered it possible to write a constitutional law and, in fact, a constitutional review of the constitutional law is not possible. Today we know it's not like that anymore. It is impossible for the National Assembly to adopt a constitutional law that is contrary to the Constitution. Thus, even constitutional law cannot be adopted in such a way as to satisfy the SDS and all those who think in such a way as to avoid a decision by the Constitutional Court. So the only possibility within our legal system is that the ministry or the minister insists on issuing additional decisions and thus solve this extremely open and I think that, indeed, a burdensome issue for democracy in Slovenia. What separated the public most during this period was, above all, what would happen in the event of compensation. And here too, this interpolation may be welcome precisely because we have substantially clearer answers and information about what might actually happen to these damages. In a response that, by the way, I think is also very, very well-reasonedly prepared for interpolation itself, we can understand that 4,000 deleted supplementary decisions have been issued. And we can also find that the deadline for the lodging of compensation actions does not run from the issuance of the supplementary decision, but from the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court. And if we look at how many years have passed since the decision of the Constitutional Court to date, we can find that most of these procedures have expired, at least after the legislation in force in the Republic of Slovenia has been in force so far. However, if we are already trying to obtain a practice that has been established in Europe, we can also get an explanation in our response to the interpolation that compensation for a similar case, for example, dealt with by the European Court of Justice in the aforementioned Baltic States, we can find that individuals are not necessarily subject to monetary compensation based on the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but that fair satisfaction is already a return to status. So, to say that there will be just some enormous claims is really unrealistic, unfair. These irregularities are often causing very many problems for Slovenia. So I believe that today's interpolation is useful because at least in the area of compensation we have a much clearer answer and that they do not adhere to this statement which deceives the public about the amount of compensation. Last but not least, I say that today's interpretation can save the National Assembly only in such a way that all the Members and Members present, who will vote on the interpretation here today, unanimously reject the proposal for interpretation, which has been submitted to the National Assembly. That's the only way we're gonna keep our faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u192	Again, Your Honor! Although the Minister is not here and does not answer many questions from Members. I don't know how to imagine such interpretations when the Minister of Interoperability is actually not prepared to cooperate with Members. It's obviously a new technology. However, I must say that I have, in fact, been amazed at the talk, the intolerance, sometimes the delicacy of the coalition Members and everything that has been going on at this meeting. In fact, it was a project preparation to bring together the reputation of Members on this side. They were considered to be court jesters, they were considered to be streetmen as the cowboys were said yesterday and - I don't know what - but today at this meeting there was a systematic collapse of the legitimacy of the self-sustaining war and the essence of the Slovenian Constitution and all who are responsible for Slovenian independence. Ambassador Rojej is Mr Gorenak, who was a formational member of the police to go cowboy with a revolver like in the Wild West. This is an insult to Slovenian police officers and Slovenian soldiers. With this you take the legitimacy of Slovenia's own self-sustainment war. And then, of course, Mr Žnidaršič added that there was a lynching like in the Wild West, of course the cowboys were in the Wild West. And then it followed, Mr. Potts said that the fault of the people of the Ministry was extremely great. I've been watching something. And then a colleague over there from those benches said there was a political, ethical clean-up. Politically, however, it will be possible for Slovenia to have ethnic cleansing as was the case with Vič Holmec from the same backgrounds. Perhaps from the same writers, such as saying that then war crime took place in Slovenia. I think it may still be up to some of you to get Slovenia to that Hague War Crimes and Ethics Court, and so on, if you use such terms. Then it was said that systematic state policy was. So, Slovenian invaders, Slovenian Constitution writers and all of them, they are all something bad, something repulsive, and probably will happen to them, what some mentioned before Goebbels to a great extent, as with Austrian Chancellor Dollfub, that they will have to emigrate or be incriminated, because ethnic cleansing is a great fault that you state on this side. So completely incriminating the invaders and uncritically defending all those who have, all of them, for erased. I must say that I am aware that some so-called injustices have occurred, and I have personally intervened for such people who are innocent, who have not been aware of it and I have believed them and have been saved. However, in such a tone, the performance of the minister also passed. Because its performance was somehow built on the asis of Mr Aleksandr Todorovic that Slovenia would remain an uncivilised country if it was not satisfied with compensation. He's stressed this a number of times. I look a little different today after all that you've done with the secretary's vehemence. I specifically asked the Minister of Hiring if they were holding information that Mr Jankovic and the Serbian lobby had demanded immediate decision-making for their services in the electoral campaign. She answered all the other questions, and she did not deny it, and she did not want to respond twice. Of course, the minister finally said to me that she was not haunted by spirits and skeletons from the past. And I must say that Slovenian blood spills over to me in the self-conquering war and skeletons, which today are physically dead in the Slovenian war, are burdened. They persecute me, they burden me, and this statement of hers is the same as John the Resident's, who said, "I knew about the killings, but I don't feel guilty." Even though they're shielding obvious criminals and crime and it's an unheard-of, covering up criminals, they don't feel guilty. Here, it seems, the only ones who will end up to blame will be those who surrender. I mean, who, with their heart and soul, fought and acted for Slovenian independence. For this purpose, the name Jerovšek from the Member was also used for illustration. Let me tell him it wasn't meant for me. I am still thinking the same about constitutional decisions and also about the realisation of Austrian decisions by the Constitutional Court and ours as well. But I would ask myself here once at that debate, why did Mr. Krivic hold for four years? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] As rapporteur, however, he did not consider if he so knew of such injustices. [[...]] Did he also wait for the constitution of the Constitutional Court to be such when constitutional judges do not feel burdened with skeletons, with the dead Slovenian army? Did he feel it? He began to resolve when he was practically already in conflict, when in some way he was the legal representative of these deleted. I have the right to believe in constitutional lawyers that decisions must not be resolved in a non-constitutional way, that they must be governed by law. And when the name Jerovšek was discussed, I would ask Mr Potrč to say, because it seems that it will also become controversial in this country that someone wrote that this was the way to write a ban on the rally on December 1st and what were the initial reactions in that. The signatories of this petition, at least some of them were very critical, receptive to such a decision that led him through. But it will also be a burdensome time that this was a crime, an attack, a ban and also an attitude towards this Mr Aleksandr Todorovic, I have his demands. He was at the same time employed in the same factory as me at the time of his conquest and this. I don't know him personally. I didn't meet him there. But it worked there, and now my former employees call me a constant, militant group of people of Serbian nationality, nationality. But not all were militants so that I would not do the wrong that predicted the arrest and replacement of all the leaders, and they also wrote that if anyone resisted, he should be arrested. All of you could be entitled "persone non grata". Mr. Todorovic, that's what I'm told, then he took away his retirement, automatically took away his retirement. And then one of your people gave him a court-martial certificate that he couldn't get a job, yours, and the candidates. That's what they tell me. Such persons could be justified. Every country has the right to "persone non gratuitous". I understand that this is how you resist strictly selective treatment, because selective treatment would show it. And that's for you, it seems burdensome. Individuals should be discredited. And, unfortunately, we're going the wrong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Because my colleague Jerovšek asked me directly to say what I also publicly always say, colleague Jerovšek - our cooperation with your brother in Parliament 1986-1990 was exceptional. I've never said one word about his work. He's holding back a little while to compliment me, but he didn't criticize me either. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Mr. Keck, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u194	I wasn't named after my last name, but he was pointing at me when I was talking about taking Mr Jerovsk for the respect of the Constitutional Court in Austria. And I said that it would be right to advocate respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court in Slovenia as well. And that is true in the magnetogram of the 7th Foreign Policy Committee meeting on 19 March. Mr Jerovšek says: "And I wonder whether the Austrian Foreign Minister has ensured that Austria and the current government will approach the implementation of the provisions of the Constitutional Court, or whether it will continue to worship the nationalist party. Thank you." So that they could pass those words on to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I will read a brief real story that I am dedicated to or that I want to give to my colleagues, the interpelling proponents. Milan Makuc was deleted because he was born in Raša in Croatian Istria as the son of Slovenian coastal parents Makuc was a coastal surname and as a 7-year-old child moved slightly northerly to the same peninsula and landed in Piran, which was just that year after the end of the B zone of the free market territory became part of the Republic of Slovenia. Never, after his conquest, did he think that the fate that he actually had could befall him. He didn't file any motions. And that's why they erased it. As deleted, which he did not know until 1994, he was deprived of all rights - without employment, without social support, without health insurance. Since he had no status, he was eventually thrown out of his apartment. Then he got sick. The bureaucrats didn't move either. I quote from our press: "If he was seriously ill, Milan suspected six years ago, he recalls his friend Vesna Lovrec, who at the time of his death with a public letter reminded him of him. Two years ago, the wound on his mouth increased greatly. The social worker who noticed this then advised him to seek medical help. However, the advice did not help, since he was dismissed in the infirmary in Primorska because he was without documents and without insurance," Mr Grims told his acquaintance: "Friends have therefore taken him to Ljubljana to the only outpatient ambulance, because they have no other option. There, doctor Alexander Doplihar found at the examination that the malignant tumor has on the upper lip and part of the right side of his face. The exterminated Milan Makuc, a disenfranchised Slovenian born in Rashi, died last year in Piran because of cancer. He's buried as if he had been erased." Madam colleagues, who request the resignation of Minister Katarina Kresal, I am to some extent grateful to you. For once again you have proved, unfortunately, for Slovenia, but for this House it may be good that there is something you want to exist. This is some kind of cultural dispute, a cultural struggle or a civilisation-wide conflict. Maybe this is where this civilisation fight is going on. And today we've seen what the accents of one civilization and another are like. On the one hand, we listened to an excellent performance by the minister. And the beauty of the minister isn't just physical. The beauty of the minister today was mainly ethical, intellectual. In her speech, she united ethics, sobriety, the rule of law and what we call a culture of heart or heart culture. Sometimes there's not enough of that here. And this is missing, unfortunately, exactly from the proponents of this absurd interpretation. Well, I'd like to tell you, my opposition colleagues, that we don't give these ministers and these ministers. We will vote against interpolation and I think it is in this interpolation that is returning to you today as a kind of boomerang. Maybe that's why you noticed. Mostly now you've chosen and congratulations, but hours and hours this half of you has been pretty empty. Empty because you were ashamed because if you listened to everything my colleagues said today, with concrete data, you might realize that you are judging an ideological scheme which, of course, through democracy and with the rule of law and above all with humanism, I am not talking about other ideologies, I am talking only about humanism having nothing to share. In particular, there are many, not only vocabularies and stylistic wonders in your interpretation, but mainly contentistic, nonconstant claims. You consistently and exclusively quote professional sources. Mr Grimes impressed me today with this wide range of expertise. Dr. Tone Jerovšek, Dr. Tone Jerovšek, Dr. Tone Jerovšek and three dots. It is fortunate that we have received further added value from our brother, Mr Tonet Jerovska, so that we have a full argument from these reliable professional sources. But you know, with all due respect to Dr. Jerovsk, his one opinion was respectful, but one opinion. It was the Constitutional Court’s decision that what had been applied to the issue had been null and voided. It has been the decision-making in those institutions that, unfortunately, the Democrats do not want to recognise, but that democracy and the rule of law must be recognised and that is the Constitutional Court. You insist on one lie. That you want to deal with all cases individually. Look, there's been a massive violation of human rights. There has been a mass extermination of the persons and rights of these persons. And now we would like to deal with it individually, provided that we introduce the criteria you dictate in this treatment or in this treatment. You're wrong. These decisions are already being dealt with individually. The Ministry shall issue decisions on a case-by-case basis. If we didn't have $18,20,000 in here. No, no, no. Decisions shall go on the basis of legality. From case to case. Only that they don't contain those criteria that you want. It's either a political assessment or a national assessment or a psychological assessment of what and how someone thought at the moment we were lonely. You know, these categories don't belong in the rule of law or belong to a democratic culture. Absolutely not. So if we're talking about the costs you're scaring, and in fact, I'm sorry, I'm not going to charge you with anything. But what you're running now is what someone's been after in the thirties. This is a fear of someone who will live in a parasitic way at the expense of society in the economic crisis. You know, these phenomena are active. These phenomena are known. I'm not naming them. But anti-Semitism was created on the basis of these prejudices and these paranoias. And now we could call it anti-extermination. I don't know. Offer it to me, too. But in fact, psychology, mass psychology, which Wilhelm Reich described beautifully in the 1930s, is quite identical. And do you know what treatments against this paranoia are? Well, I won't describe them now. Read Raihu and you'll understand. One last piece of information. 17,000 euros of recognised compensation for you is a major disaster. I'm not going to talk about the causes, the reasons for this compensation. But this compensation was judged by the competent authorities after a thorough review of all the arguments. This compensation is as high as one month's salary for your political staff at the head of Inter-Europe, which has spent 140 million euros to see that the company is now failing and will be paid with millions to survive. And that's what you set him up, gentlemen. That's your political party cadre. Who's more harmful to society, to interests? Who takes more money from this society and this country and throws it into a black hole? That's information. Are you afraid of him? And get yourself on one compensation, which is still in phase, one compensation of 17,000 euros. What about the millions you've been spending and you're spending in a black hole? So, Madam Secretary, you know we're with you. You know that today you have performed one of the best performances that we have heard in this National Assembly, because you have brought together in fact everything that we, who believe in democracy and the rule of law, want. And with this you have given moral and political slaps to all those who do not believe in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Vasi Klavor has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u198	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! There's been a lot of talk today. There was a lot of saying ugly, a lot of beautiful. There's a lot of unreal, a lot of real, a lot of offensive. I think, and I firmly believe, that all those who have accompanied today's meeting of the National Assembly on this subject both in radio audiences and in front of television screens have created some opinion on what most of the members of this National Assembly want. He wants us to live in co-existence with those who also live with us in our country. He wants our country to be legal and to respect the Constitutional Court's ruling. That is why I believe that, and I am sure, there will be a strong conviction that the vast majority of Members in this National Assembly today will reject this intervention against the Minister and that in the end they will congratulate her for her work so far and also for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much and good evening to all present! Especially Minister Katarina Kresalov. I'm gonna start with a story, too, which is my personal experience, so I'm not gonna tell the name. It was Isolan, the son of the former mayor of Kozina, who was born one year before me, some 10 meters across the Slovenian-Croatian border in Croatia Istria on his great accident. All the years later he lived first in Brkini and later in Izola. And he didn't even know he wasn't a Slovenian citizen. And he didn't know because he was just a ignorant, simple man and because he didn't get three calls, four times to demand citizenship. As we have already heard today, how good this country has been since it first warned, and then carried out the threat set out in Article 81 of the Foreigners Act, which says that for nationals of the SFRJ who are nationals of another republic who do not apply for citizenship, if you do not apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia within the period referred to in the preceding paragraph, or if a negative decision is issued to them, the provisions of this Act shall enter into force two months after the time limit within which they could apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia or from the issue of a final decision. Which means those of you who are orderly and do not want to take over Slovenian citizenship are condemned to delete you from the register of permanent residents of this country. Although they were born in Slovenia, they are 100 percent descendants of Slovenians. Even though they've lived here their whole lives. We've caused them apathy. 5,300 people on the list of 25,000 people did not have any citizenship because the list was deleted on their name and last name 'unknown citizenship'. Which means they were stateless. We have deprived them of the possibility of being citizens of any country. Despite the fact that the Society of Nations, after World War I, had established or adopted a convention on the basis of the activities of Nansen, that apathy was prohibited by any State. It is said that it is forbidden to take citizenship away from any man in this world. We did it for 5,300 people. They didn't have any citizenship. Not only did they not have a permanent residence. And of course we do, and not us, of course, you think that was right. When you speak of the fact that the act of deprivation of permanent residence was not illegal, it is a farce, since Article 82 of the Law makes it very clear that those foreign nationals who had a permit to reside permanently under the previous legislation continue this permanent residence upon the entry into force of this law. It is said that there has been an eccentric violation of equality before the law. Those people who were or were supposed to be citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia have lost their permanent residence because of course they were orderly and did not apply for citizenship. However, those from other countries of this world maintained their permanent residence as if nothing had happened. Here I have to say that at least what it is is purely a diversion if we claim that the Constitutional Court has made mistakes. Finally, of all the people whose permanent residence was wiped out, there were as many as 13,600 people under the age of 18 or women. So, your claims about terrible aggressors, traitors - and I don't know what else, of course they don't contain any verification. The statistics are clear, the names and surnames are in addition to these statistics, which, of course, we cannot see happily. And for that reason, I believe that there is nothing but a vote against your proposal for interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present in this chateau! I may partly agree with my colleague Kumro that the interpretation is going against the wrong person. For, after a well-known Slovenian proverb, if you step on a cat's tail, jump out and plead, perhaps the Minister may feel quite unharmed in these allegations. For so far, apart from the well-read, well-read speech at the beginning, we have not heard anything. Perhaps, however, given the visit of the Slovenian delegation to Serbia on 6 March, the response in our media was very favourable, routine. While in Serbia the response is the same as in children when they are visited by Miklavž, Santa Claus or Santa Claus. For they were promised the recognition of the Serb minority. I don't know where they found her. We talked about "open questions" that we had 25,000 deleted. I don't know who they are. Either they keep their records, or I don't know, because they were erased from all other nations, or it was suggested from Slovenia. I was most stabbed by the fact that Serbia will be Slovenia's entry for business in Russia and Belarus. Are they a way into the Russian market prepared by Krka Rus? Is there something wrong here? As many companies as possible to follow Krka in this area. And I don't understand when foreign delegations are coming to Slovenia, when they are interested in future presidents, how they are chairing and so on. Contact with Slovenia is sought by Turkey, Brazil, Azerbaijan, Mexico and so on when they want to enter the European market through Slovenia that we need a lawyer within a very, still internationally questionable Serbia. There are democratic processes there. We admit it, but we just have to keep things going. I'm afraid there are so-called "Serbian business" in the back. We all know what this synonym means. A number of suspicious events took place at the time of independence, when many Slovenian companies came into Serbian hands, and our directors filled the warehouses much earlier. Then we protested. And here is one of the points that we have to, and this is also an "open question" on our side, and -- let's say -- capital converters, who's going to pay them, and the damage from aggression. Similarly, all European countries, the newly created European countries, have a similar issue. Of course, there was no defendant because there was no commotion in Brussels, about the problem of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and so continue to remain silent. Meet in Brussels. But since no one's making a mistake, it's status quo. Now to the so-called deleted. It is the duty of every citizen to arrange documents, and a kind administration will even warn you when a matter needs to be extended. If you lose, you have to act accordingly. And I want to know how in Slovenia 25 thousand people can live 17 years illegally, how they drive their vehicles, how they send their children to school. Above all, one institution will find everyone. It's the tax administration. If they don't have any other documents, they must have a tax number. Some documents or their status have already been arranged. I'd also like to draw your attention to the profiteers. That is, quite a nice amount of my former colleagues in Savi Kranj, which was a very international factory, benefited from this. Some of them went straight away, "I can't take it anymore." And they went down. They want to come back, but they can't. I had a co-worker who held Croatian citizenship until the last, because from Kikinda he drove cheap cars from Samobor, leather gallantry and almost missed and even Kranski Mayor Vitomir Gross had to help him get "post Festum", five minutes later he got citizenship. More tragic is the case of another associate when he went to Serbia and when asked there was an interview in the newspaper, whether he would still go to Slovenia, he said, "Yes, but only in the tank." He can't come back because the situation has been changed by Croatian defenders at Vukovar. The boy's down. Perhaps even today, Goebbels has been mentioned repeatedly that the matter will be balanced, I would mention Lavrenti Berio, and perhaps also from Edward Cardell's home logs. Finally, we would not only be talking about deleted ones, but we would also be very shy to ask: What about the public invitation to lead the police? Is everything clear there? Isn't that also a special point?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, asked for the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Some people are surprised I haven't heard from you today. We're in Parliament. This is a step for you, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, to say everything that is bothering you about me and about me and the work of the Ministry of the Interior. Isn't that right?Oh, my God! Tell those who don't support this interpretation, what's wrong with what I'm doing. On my part, it's only right that I listen to you. And most of the time, I was sitting here listening to you. I've listened very well to what you're saying. Unlike most of the interpellation candidates who haven't sat here, most of the time. Interpellation and debate alone today in the National Assembly confirm the thesis of the eternal return of the same. Applicants repeat the same incorrect information and half-truths over and over again. The note they're playing is just a matter of current political judgment. Once they talk about aggressors, secondly about speculators, third time about persons not even in Slovenia. When these problems prove unrealistic, they reach for damages and demagogies on the threat of Slovenian workers and lose their rights to the account of the deleted. Professionally and legally, things are clear today! And you're still quoting opinions from five years ago. You manipulate with names of experts who have clearly and publicly explained their position and the reasons for its change. If I'm being very precise, I think I actually heard one name from an alleged expert today. The situation today is discussed in 51 professional and scientific articles and 5 monographs. They have been published only in the last nine years in the Slovenian professional press. Although I have these above views about doing right, I am happy to stress, however, that we must not go here to measure the power between the various professors of law. This can be discussed professionally in the professional press. The rule of law, however, must respect judicial decisions, even if they do not like it, even if the opposition does not like it. And there are as many as 9 Constitutional Court rulings on deleted persons, which very clearly identify human rights violations. Dear viewers and viewers at home behind their screens, once again, I would like to make it very clear: The deleted are not about citizenship. Indeed, you have heard this very often mainly from the SDS, it is a matter of permanent residence. On the other hand, deliberately mixing the notions of citizenship on the one hand and the status of permanent residents on the other is an old rhetorical reception of the opposition. And that's why I'm saying it again. Decisions only regulate the status of permanent residence for previous years if a person in Slovenia had a registered permanent residence on 26.2.1992 and has a permanent residence permit for a foreigner. Well, now he's got it. Therefore, it is certainly not a matter of granting citizenship. By way of deletion, citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ who had a regulated residence permit in Slovenia and did not apply for Slovenian citizenship, without a legal basis or any decision lost their permanent residence. They've become strangers. Foreigners who stay illegally in the territory of Slovenia have yet to settle their foreign status. The third-country nationals, Italy, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, who had their residence permit deleted at that time, did not have to do anything about it. After the expiry of the deadline, foreigners with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia automatically became foreigners. Of course, for the people of our formerly common country, it was not so, much harder. We've been talking about this for 17 years now. And what really happened? The Foreigners Act provided that their residence permits issued in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia are also valid in the newly established Republic of Slovenia, i.e. all those other foreigners. On the contrary, the law did not contain such arrangements for persons from other republics of the former Yugoslavia and they had permanent residence in Slovenia at the time. It follows that the latter, i.e. our former co-citizens, have been treated worse than third-country nationals with a residence permit. They were discriminated against by this. And that's what the Constitutional Court found in 1999. No provision for the transition of their status in the same way as had been done in the case of third-country nationals authorised to reside has led to a legal void, which has led to the finding of the Aliens Act as unconstitutional. The claims that the deleted were in fact simply transferred from one record to another, which is why, in the view of the interpellationers, it would be preferable to ask what kind of injustice was committed to them in cynicism at all, simply exceeds the proposal to use a bureaucratic formalistic term as deleted. Even more. As it turned out later, they were in fact transferred from the active to the so-called passive or dead record within the register of the permanent population itself, as acknowledged by the current State Secretary to the MNZ mag. Nightingale Fatty. This transfer has led to the lack of opportunities for people including children to exercise a type of social, health and educational rights. These people were told to have their personal health and student cards removed from their homes. They've lost the legal basis for existence. In the country where they had a regular stay, many of them were born and went to school, becoming not only foreigners but also illegals overnight. Therefore, some of them were also imprisoned in a foreign removal centre and were also expelled from the country. According to the documents of that time, even police units had concerns about such expulsions without any decisions, since they had to send an explicit instruction from the Ministry of the Interior that such persons could, without any decision, lead to the state border and send them across the border. If anyone doubts, here's the case for such a dispatch. In the past, the media has presented a number of individual stories related to holes, including Mr Gorenak's official cancellation of passports and identity cards at municipal offices. Above all, none of the victims were informed of what had happened and even less in advance of what they were supposed to do. Quite a few claims were made today because they were all called in advance to settle their status, if that was their duty. That's what it said. It was clear in the Foreigners Act. These claims are like many other things that we have heard today, perfect inventions. Yeah, there were some subsequent calls. This was in the discretion of individual administrative units. In fact, some administrative units have called on people to report to them because they no longer have their status. Some of these messages were sent to employers or single homes. Some individuals were instructed to go to the Office of Foreigners only weeks or months after they were deleted. But only after it was wiped out when it was already done. For many, the status quo was virtually impossible due to the war in Bosnia, Croatia and so on. They could not obtain the required documents from there, which had to be submitted. Many of them have thus become a man without a country. The most incredible and pointless accusation is that new data are deleted, that more are the LDS's political project. Mr Grimes said, "Well, I didn't say anything about LDS in the introduction, I was talking about the ruling coalition." Then, Mr Grimes, read again the interpolation you signed at the 23rd place. There's a very clear charge against a client I'm running. By returning to the once illegally confiscated status of permanent residents, no one is granted election rights in the national elections. Only citizens have that. And, as I said in the introduction, regulating the problem of deleted persons is not the granting of citizenship. Interpellators even accompanied the claim with a surprising calculation when comparing the difference between new and old data on the number of deleted and the difference between the number of SDS and SD votes in previous elections. Well, I wouldn't even comment on that. But I can explain how the professional services got to that number. By the way, the leader of the opposition, Mr Janez Janša, said today that the information system had not changed in the meantime. Another one of many claims that is not true. Of course, that is also the reason why many things came to light only later. The old information system of administrative-internal matters, which has been practically adapted to the police information system in the past, did not allow such a transparent review of individual changes. In the old system, data were kept on current citizenship. Any change in status has covered up the previous situation. Therefore, the implementation of statistical treatments or inquiries was virtually impossible. In order to maintain intermediate conditions, however, the history of any changes in status had to be maintained. In 2005, a parent register was built in which they began to transfer data from their home books to all administrative units in the Republic of Slovenia. The register of permanent population has also been updated. In 2006, the register of foreigners was updated. These registers are based on the principle of events that happen to an individual during the course of life, so any change in the data of an individual also brings a new event within the individual registry. For that reason, this time the methodology of the data obtained on the number of deleted was the most optimal, which can be offered by the current information system of administrative and internal matters combining those registers. On 24 January 2009, the Ministry of the Interior obtained statistical data from the information system of administrative and internal affairs, namely the Register of Permanent residence, the Register of Foreigners and the Register of Mothers. Taking into account the above facts, that all administrative units were to align the data from the manual records with the computer records, we took into account the data from the computer records only in 2009, and found that the number of persons who had ceased to apply for permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia was 25 000 671. But when I think like this about the LDS comment and the voters, maybe you're right, Mr Grims. Or maybe the government will get new voters with this project. But not between foreigners with regulated status, but between those of our citizens and citizens who care about the rule of law, human dignity, truth and argument. Those who have sufficiently exclusive policies and divisions among the people of Slovenia. Those who are full of populism and false patriotism. But it's possible we'll get new voters. But I don't create them with numbers made by professional services. But you also create them by your own conduct and deception at this interpretation. Like I said in the introduction, most people can't be held for long by cheap populism. Aggressors, a hundred times the word heard today. The problem of the interpellation motioners may have been that the new verifications that provided a realistic picture of the composition of the deleted have lied to a number of claims. Especially the fact that a large group of Serbian officers from the former Yugoslav People's Army, who will even be rewarded for their actions during the liberation war, have been wiped out. On the contrary, with evidence of never-substantiated claims, the expert examinations of categories of deleted persons showed that there were 5,360 persons who were under the age of 18 and that there were 10,896 women in total. The Ministry of the Interior does not keep data on the profession in its records. Therefore, various claims and references to a number of military personnel can only be subject to political speculation, and they are, of course. However, all the above data was made publicly available on the Ministry’s website. Interpreters also constantly point out that they have concrete evidence of war crimes alleged to have been committed by deleted criminals among them. Such persons should be criminally incriminated. The one who knows it even has a duty to do it. They need to be persecuted. That's right. That's what the law requires. However, neither in the mandate of the previous government has any proceedings been initiated against any of these alleged known persons. The review of judicial proceedings in Slovenia against members of the Yugoslav Army for acts committed during the war of secession reveals the extreme flat rate of such claims. These proceedings have not led to a single case of conviction before Slovenian courts. And these courts have respected the applicable law in the Republic of Slovenia of this contractual and customary standards of international war and humanitarian law. And how was it really? In total, 104 members of the Yugoslav army were contacted in 70 cases. Among them is the majority of those who have ever left Slovenia forever. Of this, 13 persons were indicted by the prosecution in 10 cases. The 4 cases were closed by a judicial exoneration judgment. In one case, the court dismissed the judgment of limitation. In short, no proceedings have been concluded by a judicial judgment. Interpellators should instead refer to aggressors and natural law and historical absurdity to those persons they have been talking about for years. It's a personal name and it's in court. This is the only real forum for such accusations or can explain why you have not brought criminal charges against them. Let's say for the last four years. The question of supplementary decisions. Why and why is it legal? The issue of the remaining supplementary decisions, namely, in 2004, has already been issued 4,093 supplementary decisions to which those who have already obtained a new residence permit are entitled in those years need a legal basis, according to the interpellationers. Otherwise, they say it's supposed to be a legal precedent. The claim is not valid. In the past, the Constitutional Court has already ordered the authority of the executive branch to issue supplementary administrative decisions in specific cases, without obliging the legislator to draw up a legal basis. Similarly, the Constitutional Court, in another decision dealing with the problem of deleted, stressed that, in the absence of respect for the Constitutional Court’s decision, the consequences themselves had been unconstitutional and that any delay in the enforcement of that decision constituted a continuation of the anti-constitutional situation. For one more reason, the claim that the current issue of decisions is unconstitutional is unsustainable. Dr. Lovro Sturm, in case anyone doesn't remember. Mr Šturm, Minister of Justice for the four years of the previous Government, wrote in the commentary to Article 153 of the Constitution, which is also held at the premises of this National Assembly: "For legal provisions" is the article that you have quoted many times today "for a legal provision, the decision of the Constitutional Court should also be considered when the Constitutional Court, pursuant to Article 40(2) of the Constitutional Court Act, determines how the decision of the Constitutional Court is to be enforced." Who's the blind guy here now and who's the blind guy? Otherwise, we didn't conduct a police investigation. But it's a very worn-out book. However, I can almost certainly argue that neither Mr Grims nor Mr Gorenak nor Mr Tsukati would have found fingerprints on it. Because everything is legal and in accordance with the Constitution and with all those professors who also taught me in law school, Mr Šturm was one of the best, the Ministry approached to implement the decisions in two steps. Firstly, the issue of supplementary decisions to beneficiaries who have not yet received them in 2004 and who already have their status in Slovenia. Secondly, the drafting of a law to remedy the irregularities identified by the Constitutional Court in the Act on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other States of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. If we repeat, the Ministry of the Interior shall issue those supplementary decisions which, in the light of the Court's decision, need to be issued. However, the status for the remaining deleted will be regulated by a special substantive law. The latter will go through the necessary governmental and parliamentary procedures and, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, will determine the conditions for regulating the status of those who are currently not in regulated status in the Republic of Slovenia or who have had to leave the Republic of Slovenia or have been prevented from returning to the Republic of Slovenia because of the lack of that status. The draft provides for individual treatment. We have heard that word many times today. Individually. The Ministry of the Interior does not act individually. And I'm gonna go up from the back. Of course, the law lays down the exact conditions that a particular person will have to meet. The documents that this person will have to submit, the legal procedure, to pay the tax that I think Mr Janša was talking about - and in the end the administrative authority will decide whether or not he has the right to reside. Of course, this is not the only individual treatment that will be legal. All those to whom we make supplementary decisions have also gone through individual treatment. In fact, remember, all these people already have permanent residence. So they had to show a whole series of documents and evidence that they had received a permanent residence. And, of course, we do individual treatment, too. Because for each individual, we need to see manually in the Scriptures whether he has already received permanent residence and if the status has not yet been adjusted. The claim that the Ministry thus establishes inequality within the group itself is as absurd as the claim that it was actually only the Constitutional Court when the legislative and executive branches gave such instructions. Many lies have been said today. Among other things, the SDS President's statement, which he said and quote, "Fivety-five thousand is a completely fabricated figure. Not only did these people not live here at that time, but most of these people don't live here today. Those who did not believe that Slovenia would succeed have left Slovenia." Let me serve with information on the delivery of supplementary decisions, in 2004, when Minister Bohinc issued more than four thousand decisions, only twenty of them did not reach the addressee. At this point, about a thousand and five hundred decisions have been issued, half of which we must issue at this stage. The mail only returned a few undeclared decisions. And for each such return, of course, is a special reason and the post office lists it. In this case, we continue the procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act. So I would like to point out that this is only 3% that are coming back. That's an extraordinary little thing. And this mainly points to the seriousness of preparation, the consistency of performance and the expertise of the officials working on it. Above all, he is lying to the president of the SDS who claims that these people are not in Slovenia at all. In short, it is a serious legal-organisation and implementation-oriented, well-proportioned and guided project that minimises the possibility of abuse in one direction or another. In this regard, I also commend the officials working on this project. The Constitutional Law is supposed to be the only legal solution to this problem, which we have been in for 17 years. In addition to interpolation, the SDS has put forward a proposal from the past, where, if agreement were to take place mainly on two points of the law, this is an individual treatment and the identification of aggressors in obtaining status, they would even be willing to withdraw the interpretation. In order for such an unusual political bargain to be morally challenged by the correction of injustices and human rights violations, there is no need to stress in particular. My opposition to the constitutional law, which is the next observation by the motioners of the interpretation, is based on the fact that, in view of the content of the proposed text, he wishes to play and to enjoy the content of the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, I will not dispute the indiscretion of the interpellation candidates who want to put my conduct in opposition to the political legacy of the former President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska. In no way does the designation of a law as constitutional allow an area to be regulated in contravention of the Constitution or contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court. A similar opinion was also submitted by the Ombudsman in 2008 just before the draft constitutional law on deleted by the Constitutional Commission was examined. The former Constitutional Judge, Prof. Lojze Ude, then gave the opinion that four of the nine proposed additional articles were expressly contrary to the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. Which could mean that in this case it is the political play of the Constitutional Court. That the constitutional law is totally unnecessary for the enforcement of the decision, the Constitutional-Legal Expert, Dr Andraz Teršek, also considers that the envisaged content of the law has clearly and unequivocally demonstrated the purpose and would be played and circumvented by the abuse of the form of constitutional law. That's his quote. A similar opinion was publicly represented by the former President of the Constitutional Court, Prof. Dragica Vedam Lukič. Today, on the 17th edition of the Studio, legal experts Dr. Pirnat and Dr. Bulgarianič also performed, which in their comments on deleted issues again support the issue of supplementary decisions. In your explanation, you point out that the legal principle of equality of foreigners living or living in Slovenia has been violated, which is unacceptable for the rule of law. Even among legal experts, where there are views from a good five years ago about the urgency and regularity of the constitutional law, there is no longer a single opinion. The latter, they said, is due, inter alia, to the fact that after 2003, the Constitutional Court, when giving an opinion to Dr. Rad Bohinc at the time, reiterated the correctness and urgency of issuing decisions on the basis of the eighth point of the decision of 2003. For example, Professor Rajko Pirnat, dean of the Faculty of Law, publicly expressed the view that what was imposed by the Constitutional Court should be done when it confirmed that, on the basis of the dispute, decisions should be made on the basis of his words. On 19 January 2009, he also assessed that the reference to such a constitutional law was not inviolable for the Constitutional Court’s judgment. The latter have been publicly endorsed by the three Presidents of the Constitutional Court in recent years. Finally, the current President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Jože Tratnik, "who was introduced and strengthened by some of the Interpol supporters in the Slovenian political discourse." I am thinking of the supposed so-called means of discrediting, in addition to the previously erased ones, all those who were not according to their political options and visions. The important difference is that these indications now include even the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and all its decisions. The weakening of the pillar of the judiciary becomes a daily political practice, which in the old totalitarian manner makes mainly short-term profits. So we're ignoring the referendum. We're grossly ignoring him. We don't put anything on human will. How's it really going? Interpellators in point 2 of the Interpellation report to the Ministry of the Interior on the negation of the expression of the will of the people, comparing the current activities of the Ministry with an attempt to resolve the problem by the current government, which was rejected by 94.6% in 2004 by 94.6% of the people in the referendum. In doing so, of course, they deliberately ignore a number of facts and come out of the wrong assumption forever. The fact is that in Slovenia there has never been a referendum on whether a decision of the Constitutional Court should be enforced and whether it is necessary to restore to people the status they have been deprived of in violation of the Constitution. There was no such referendum in Slovenia. The 2004 referendum on the so-called technical law did not reject a consistent follow-up to the 8th point of the Constitutional Court’s decision, but rather the technical law by which the current Government attempted to enforce the Constitutional Court’s decision in a different way from that established only by the Constitutional Court. The paradoxical nature of the then referendum was also that the technical law was then opposed by today's interpolation supporters because it even agreed to the issue of supplementary decisions. Today, however, they object to the issue of decisions because there is no law. In both cases, there is a common one, opposition to any resolution of the problem. The legal significance of the outcome of the referendum was clear. It rejected a technical law which sought only to reduce the number of complementary decisions needed and to give them the alleged missing legal basis. Following the rejection of this law, the decision of the Constitutional Court remains only a legal basis. Most importantly, the Constitutional Court in its specific decision had already made it clear before the referendum was carried out that any outcome of the referendum could not be resolved by Parliament and the Government of the duty to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. Furthermore, both the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman then pointed out that, with the success of the referendum, both the duty of the National Assembly and the Government to that constitutional decision would not be extinguished. The foundation of a free and fair society is never a public referendum where the majority could decide on the unequivocal constitutional rights of a minority, but an independent judge. The Constitutional Court, which is primarily shaped by moral and constitutional authority, does not have its own enforcement power to enforce its decisions. That is why respect for these is a sign of the stable democracy of a certain society. The State-making stance is therefore in a decisive way to prevent the development of a chronic political practice of ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as it puts all the inhabitants of one country at a potential risk. The Coalition therefore has a priority to address issues from the unrealised decisions of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible from the agenda. Those who, in the past and also in the present, are ever ready to play the map of the referendum, however, let the people decide, are no longer aware of one of the greatest anomalies or possible distortions of democracy, which is exactly the dictatorship of public opinion. Professor Boštjan M. Zupančič, former Constitutional Judge and current judge of the European Court of Human Rights, also points to this point. And, of course, compensation. The latest perception of interpolation, which unresponsibly exploits the understandable fear and uncertainty of people as a result of the global economic crisis, refers to the issue of compensation. Interpellators serve again with fantastic calculations, which on the one hand range to almost half a billion euros. Even more fantastic forecasts speak of EUR 25 billion. As far as the truth is concerned, I've already told you in my opening act. And I'm going to do it again because I don't think it's been heard. Six years have passed since the first threat of compensation. More than 4,000 decisions have already been issued by Minister Bohinc over five years ago. And what happened? Nothing at all. To date, the amount of compensation paid or legally paid remains zero euro. On the basis of the first calculation made by the opposition, however, the recent news is that the Avian District Court, on the basis of publicly available information, awarded compensation of EUR 17,000 to the Republic of Slovenia in a lawsuit against the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the fact that the judgment is not yet legally binding, which is to be overlooked in any way, the applicants forget that the determination of the right to compensation is a matter of court and not of the Ministry of the Interior or of any other ministry, or of any government or god, not even giving Parliament, and that the fact of unlawful deletion does not in any way establish liability for compensation until it has also been proven by the deletion of the damage caused. The attempt to link this judgment and to predict the issue of supplementary provisions also places the decisions on the lie that the judgment relates to the period when the supplementary decisions have not been issued at all. The sum of EUR 25 billion, which is based on the claim that, among open claims, the highest is supposed to amount to almost EUR million, and generalise this figure on all 25,671 deleted persons, because of the clear purpose of misleading it is not worth commenting at all. Therefore, it is only possible to re-report data, real data in the field of compensation actions against the Republic of Slovenia in the case of cases which have been deleted in the domestic courts, to the interlocutors present here. Taking into account all the other actions that the complainants had withdrawn before the proceedings went forward, the Attorney General's Office has all dealt with 39 cases deleted. Of these, 14 legal proceedings have been completed. None of the completed proceedings ended with legal compensation. Let's be specific. In 11 legal proceedings concluded, the application was rejected in full. In one case, the higher court only partially rejected the complaint and partially confirmed the judgment of the first instance. In the remainder of the complaint, the Court of First Instance accepted the appeal and returned the new trial to that extent. In two legal proceedings concluded, the applicant withdrew the action and the decision was put to a standstill. In other words, in an easy way, no compensation has yet been paid to anyone. The absolute priority of the Ministry is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, which does not touch on the issue of compensation at all. This practice is still gone, and it will be gone for a long time. We can confirm that. Why? Because, together with the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of the Interior is closely monitoring judicial proceedings in this area and, unlike the interpellation motioners, it does not speak in mind and does not frighten people with irresponsible fantasy calculations. The fact is, over four thousand deleted five years ago have received supplementary decisions, only a few have filed compensation actions and none have been resolved even at the first stage. Most of the proceedings have, according to current case law, become obsolete. In view of the current case-law, the limitation deadlines do not begin to run by the notification of the supplementary application, but on the date on which the Constitutional Court judgment was published. Therefore, there are no legal, professional, or factual arguments at this time to conclude that any compensation could in any way jeopardise Slovenia's public financial position. At least in the short term, which is marked by the global economic crisis. I can ensure that the Ministry closely and responsibly monitors this area. And if it turns out otherwise, we will respond accordingly. In doing so, I would like to point out that the basis for the amount of compensation is the injustice and injury caused by it, not the decision issued by the Ministry of the Interior. That's not what he says. That's not what I'm making up. Interpellators point to the wrong person, to the wrong government and to the wrong branch of government. Indemnity claims shall be decided only by the courts and individually. In this respect, it is only by allowing candidates for interpretation, i.e. Members of the National Assembly, to waive the judicial branch of the Authority's constitutional competence for independent and fair judgment in compensation disputes. From here to the complete decommissioning of the rule of law was then a very small step. The State's liability for the damage caused by illegal conduct is based on Article 26 of the Constitution. Everyone shall have the right to be compensated for the damage caused by a person or body carrying out such service or any other activity by a public authority, a local authority or a public authority, by means of its anti-legal conduct, who performs such service or activity, the text of this Article shall be read. I repeat, however, the liability for damages in the event of deletion is not pre-specified, nor is it necessarily legally justified, not in respect of all deleted persons at all. For example, in the aforementioned cases of the Baltic States, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that individuals are not subject to monetary compensation, but rather that the most appropriate form of just satisfaction is the return of status. And that is exactly what we are doing today in Slovenia, and this also follows European practice and standards. The limitation of compensation for erased by any law should have a constitutionally consistent justification. This cannot be avoided for the reasons I explained earlier simply by the designation of the law as constitutional. Here's to the end of a comparison that's really interesting. Several figures and facts on lawsuits and damages in Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, a total of 2,258 civil damages actions against the Republic of Slovenia were filed in 2007 and 2008. The highest number of complaints brought by citizens against the State is in dispute with compensation for the irregular work of the state authorities. These are a total of EUR 10 and a half billion. And you didn't hear the wrong thing. Claims for compensation for the objective responsibility of the State shall be followed. These are 859 in total EUR 428 million. Let's just do it again. In 2007 and 2008 alone, the state has been sued against 2,258 cases in a group of EUR 12 billion. None of these are, of course, deleted. However, if we add citizens' claims against the country before 2007, who have not yet received a judicial epilogue, we get a total number of lawsuits against the Republic of Slovenia 4,219 in total, I did not believe first, but I asked again about the defence, and they said, yes, yes, the real number is €35 billion. And that doesn't bother you, because I can see that it bothers you if I give you a number. It's all your reaction. And we said that your words would speak about your culture and your values, and you have proved that today, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u205	You have the word, Mr. Mag. Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u206	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction, on behalf of the applicants, that after ten hours we have finally received an interviewer, Madam Minister, and on this occasion I wish her a good morning. I believe she was even looking for an apparently pre-written answer that she has now read so beautifully. For if she were really here all the time, as she claimed and listened attentively, then she would know that there was not only one legal expert mentioned. He was mentioned from my side by Professor Dr. Tone Jerovšek. I also mentioned Professor Butcher, I also mentioned Professor Grad. Then Mr Gorenak mentioned Professor Cerar and so on. But those who wrote the speech that Mrs Kresalova now read before us days ago, of course, could not have known it. And please, Mrs Kresalova, don't get ahead of them now, because I am sure that they have done their job to the best of their ability. What you have missed is some very interesting debate. You have now re-used the term and also at the beginning to make it illegal to delete it. But at that time, someone else upgraded it and said that it was an act of "xenophobic, right-wing, nationalist politics". Who was the Home Secretary back then? Mr Igor Bavčar, LDS Vice-President. This is said, according to this logic, if we operate so easily with such expressions, the LDS was a long-standing medium, "xenophobic, right-wing, nationalist policy". So much for the level of debate between one and the other. Because you like to operate with numbers like that, Mrs. Kresalova, let's finally talk about direct facts. When we got an accomplice, like we said. Look, earlier in the key comments, I personally think that the most important, listed the inequality before the law that you create by now making decisions without a legal basis. I'm going to make one concrete numerical comparison. For coerced mobilizers, it was stipulated by law that they would receive 80 euros per month of the violence suffered, that you would look after exiles and internees in concentration camps and 100 euros per month of suffering in the camp, and that they would be granted a monthly salary for a camper, a stolen child and a prisoner for about 1 euro per month, and 1 euro per month for an exile and an intern. About.80 euros. However, for a working deportee and a fugitive, the maximum is still half the size. More. The same legislation limits the payment of compensation to a maximum of EUR 8000, an absolute amount. And in doing so, you must know that there is something else in this law that will sound particularly interesting today, Mrs Kresalova, when you issue decisions without indemnifying the so-called deleted in any way. For the death of his neighbor during war or postwar crimes, the beneficiary receives a compensation of 200,000 tolars. This is about €800 at the moment. 800 euros for the death of a man! And Todorovic's 55,000 euros. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the inequality before the law that you create. This is what is most embarrassing in this whole story, even more when it comes to the victims of the war for Slovenia, this amount is 4 times higher. It is said, for the death of a man 4 times 800 euros, if I count correctly, if not, please correct me very quickly because I am appalled, 3200 euros for the death of a man. However, for him who was transferred because he had not done something, he would be obliged by law to do so and to do so at the hands of EUR 55,000. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen. You and Mrs. Kresalova are responsible for this. It is therefore justified to dispose of you from this place. What you are doing all the time now that you are re-enlisting and what has already been presented even in the debate of the Minister, from which I really would not expect this, is the mockery of all the arguments presented, including the specific figures. None of you can deny it. You have also voted specifically for these laws, even more so, you have also caused a bill that expressly prohibits or does not allow the death certificate to even be issued to those who have been killed in post-war crimes in order to be issued on official duty. How pitiless, men of God! But for some of the so-called deleted ones, for his own sake, the immense suffering of €55,000 per hand. This is your right, this is equality before the law. What kind of country do we live in? Some proportionality should be established here and these things should be closed. And these things can only be properly closed by constitutional law, and you yourself know this very well, because it is necessary to review the decisions already issued on the one hand and, on the other hand, all those who will be subsequently issued will be regulated according to the same criteria, according to the same hoof! And what is essential, with the same limitations when it comes to compensation, which must be in a reasonable proportion to what I have just read. For my personal conviction, it would be the only reasonable proportion that, of course, there could not be any compensation under this title at all, but it is, as it were said, a matter of majority decision in the National Assembly. What you do all the time, and what the Minister has said is that after you run out of arguments, when we put you in front of numbers like these numbers here, you turn to insults, personal discredit. What Mrs Minister mentioned earlier in relation to the legal opinion was also an attempt to underestimate the interlocutor, his disqualification as a human. That, ladies and gentlemen, you obviously don't realize it yourself, is really a hate speech. The most experienced, most dangerous form of hate speech, which is dangerous precisely because we are no longer aware of it in this society. And the hate speech, according to the new penal code, Mrs. Kresalova, is a crime if you don't know it. Moreover, the crime that you are obliged to pursue with your services under law, but I am afraid that at this point all your services are too busy issuing decisions that have been so-called erased and investigating a story about a 1.5-euro broomstick with a view to bringing all the grey tycoons that have disappeared to dozens and even hundreds of millions of euros at that time are quietly opening champagne. And that would be a big enough reason to get rid of you from the post of Minister. But the fact that you read all the answers out of paper today, and that, of course, is also a testimony to the fact that you simply don't master these things, because otherwise you would have answered them in the middle, or else you could have said these things in the front. This is also one proof of the competence or incompetence of one who performs an individual job. However, if that does not convince you, ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself whether it is at all possible, after all, to allow the Minister to do to her own servants the kind of injustice that she is doing to them at this time when she is talking about the illegal erasure. For what was it really about? Administrative unit Idrija: We have extended our working time to arrange this. At the same time, we recall a number of cases where we have been very patient with the referees, and we have been able to endure the high performances of some, if they decide to regulate their status to the Republic of Slovenia when they so wish." Isn't that calculation, Mrs. Kresalova? Second statement from the Poet. One of the so-called deleted said, "He'll invite me to a picnic when he gets the compensation." And this is not a calculation for you, Madam Secretary?Oh, my God! Come in. "The complaint was received by workers working in administrative units in these areas, not by the client. We have accepted all the applications and dealt with them properly." And so on and so forth. This was all published in the official publication of these authorities. And you're saying that they did illegal work because, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, the dimensions of this story are completely different than you want to show them. Indeed, these dimensions are, in the first place, the issue of values, the question of attitudes towards the country, the question of patriotism. It's connected to the question of money. This is about money in particular. This was said more than clearly today, including by witnessing to people, even with this concretely signed statement that one of the so-called deleted had already said in advance that he would invite him to the party when he received the compensation. And what I think is also important, especially when we remember the beginning of this story a few years ago, is also an attempt to disqualify the state of Slovenia and its constituents. Above all, what you are doing is also this constant mocking of all the opposite arguments, something that, of course, shows you in the right light. Something that says that it is behind this effort to make this thing go under the rug as quickly as possible so that you can get additional people at the expense of taxpayers and then expect the next elections to be far off. For one interpolation with exactly the same content was successful four years ago. Today, as you say, as it seems, it will not be, because the next election is far away and you think you can afford it. However, this is about the values, the values that Slovenians respect, for the values of a positive attitude towards their own home country, where this country is established and also for the question of how to treat all those who, as new citizens, have been able to regulate their status and who will now pay the costs of issuing decisions, the costs of judicial proceedings, social transfers and damages to the so-called deleted ones, and these things are already emerging, it is nothing imaginary anymore, these costs are already coming from ladies and gentlemen, and if you deny it a hundred times, it is a fact. At the same time, this is unfair from a valuable point of view to all who, as loyal citizens, created a new country and endlessly unjust to all those who are at war for Slovenia, to independent Slovenia, paid the highest price and to their family members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u207	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know who stepped on someone's tail. The reaction was intense. Military laws, interns, exiles, you've listed a type of trauma. Don't throw that burden on my shoulder. I've got the least of them here. And if you would listen carefully to my opening act, you could hear that I am taking the lead in solving all the other traumas. And a good start would be the solution to the problem of these eraseds. Yes, I will support you in your desire that these questions, which you mentioned, will be resolved and, as soon as possible, for the benefit of the Slovenian people, this would indeed be right. You say that we do not see the real world around us, that all services deal only with deleted ones, but not with what we should, by pursuing economic and other crime. Perhaps it is right to say something about comparing what can be done within four months and what can sometimes not be done within four years. Since I came to the Ministry of the Interior, of course, it is not the only priority to solve the problem of deleted but also the issue of economic and other organised crime. It really wasn't a good situation. When I got to the basics, it didn't work. But we went to work and in a very short time we managed to do a lot. By allowing criminals immediately to access the key information bases they need in their work. Like IUS INFO, GVIN, you must know them. Each, including one personal attorney's office beats them, our criminals didn't beat them. One, two, three we've arranged for them, and now they can work with these bases. Then, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, we carried out a project of the Directorate of Criminal Police in establishing an e-commissioning system for corruption. In mid-April, the personal portal of e-governments and police websites will be launched where citizens will be able to report corruption anonymously. We have further prepared, together with the Ministry and the police, a novelty of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is already in the legislative process in April and has two key innovations. First, it lays down clear procedures and gives the police significant powers to investigate electronic data carriers such as computers, optical media and so on. And another novelty is that the law introduces the possibility of establishing investigative groups in which police and other competent public authorities and institutions in the field of taxes, customs, financial transactions, securities, competition, money laundering prevention, anti-corruption, illicit drugs and inspection would participate in the investigation of worse forms of crime, especially economic crime and corruption. I also signed the Police Systematisation Act, after which information technology investigation departments will be formed at the state level and in the four largest police administrations in the coming months. A new programme of joint training in economic crime is also being prepared. The shocking fact is that the majority of economic criminals have been on average only two days of education in the last two years. The first training, in particular in the area of financial investigations and public procurement, will begin by the end of April; some will also involve foreign experts. This is just a few of the highlights and steps we had to take and could be done. I wonder for myself why the previous four years have not been done by the previous government. The new leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the General Police Administration and the Criminal Police Authority, could have carried them out in less than half a year. In addition, a working group has been set up to prepare a project on conceptual changes in the organisation and work of the criminal police at the national and regional level, which will prepare the starting points for the establishment of the National Investigation Office. But don't lecture me about the hate speech, Mr Grimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u209	Mr. Mag. Grims, as your proposer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u210	Look, it's good that we got an accomplice, but I'd really like you to answer things that pose questions. Now you've told and given everything alive, just the answers to those questions I've asked you, to the facts I put you to, you haven't mentioned a single thing. Now I am adding this to just one question, maybe at least because it's easy, you'll be able to answer it in concrete terms. Look, you've been playing yourself all the time when you're referring to the question of JLA officers. The entire coalition is doing the same. It's like we have this list, and it's like some people in large numbers have been convicted. It was good that you now mentioned the specific numbers they were and what they were about, and you also stated that the four were specifically forgiven. But you've put the point down. In fact, these people were forgiven by the judgment of the Cell Court, which explicitly states that the key reason for their forgiveness is that I quote from memory that JLA was not the enemy army of Slovenia until October 1991. After such a unprecedented judgment, Mrs Kresalova, I wonder who else could and on whatever basis have brought any action against JLA officers for reasons or others because of war crimes during the war on Slovenia and, above all, I want your personal opinion, who, however, attacked the independent state of Slovenia. Since you've been referring to the courts all this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u211	Yes, Dr. Excuse me. [[...]] Mr Jerovšek, would you like a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u212	Yeah. Mr President, I would like you to propose to the Minister, who is a capable lawyer, that further questions be asked by Members to answer directly. But it's not like we're listening to the answers of a consortium of lawyers and lawyers. This is not the technology of interpolation so far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. This is an instruction. This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u214	In this way, we would have come to this more productively. [[...]] Because I in these, the lawyers obviously accused someone of false patriotism, and the minister was looking at us, and I want to hear who is accused of false patriotism on this side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u215	You have used this issue a few times for a procedural proposal. Madam Minister Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government. With regard to the charge, Mr Grims, when you said and reported to your fellow minister, or therefore you claim that officials have acted unlawfully, Mr Grims, you quoted this at the same time or concluded it after reading the paragraphs from the magazine issued by the officials. A colleague of the minister never said or stated that officials had acted unlawfully when implementing the Foreigners Act. Officials acted perfectly legally in 1992. The problem of the 1992 Aliens Act was that it did not lay down in the transitional provisions the situation of the citizens of the former republics of the former Yugoslav State, as it had arranged for other foreigners, nationals of other countries. For other permanent foreigners, he said that their status was recognised in the new country of Slovenia and they were entered into the records of permanent foreigners. For the permanent citizens of the former republic, and the former Yugoslavia did not provide for this in the transitional provisions, but said in the current provisions that the status of a permanent foreigner could be obtained by the person who lived in the Republic of Slovenia for at least three years in order to have the means of subsistence provided to prove that he has an apartment that proves that he has a legitimate interest in the Republic of Slovenia and that proves by the valid passport of the country of which he is a citizen. Since it was the citizens of the former republics in which the war was won in 1992, officials were obliged, on the basis of the provisions in force, to require a valid travel document. And they are to the man who gave you the role, as I explained earlier; the people have given you the role, and today they are deleted; when he gave him the role, the official charged him: a new passport of the country of which you are a citizen. Man has been in Slovenia for 10 years, how can he get a passport from the country where the war is? We helped the officials, they went to the embassy, we made contact, but these people were erased, as I said before. When they collected all these documents, all these evidences, officials accepted the application and sent it to Ljubljana to the Ministry of the Interior, which issued the decision. And the Ministry undisputedly issued decisions with a half-year, one-year delay, and we entered into the records of permanent aliens with the date of issue of the decision, in the interim period from the date of entry into force of the Aliens Act to the date of issue of the permanent residence permit, it was deleted and this decision was deleted by the Minister of Extradition. And these officials acted legally, but the conditions laid down in this law for this category of people were so difficult that many could not meet them. They were significantly stricter than the conditions for entry into the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. You know exactly that the Citizenship Act said only that they must declare that they enter citizenship. The condition was that they didn't cooperate with the aggressor. You know exactly that these decisions have fallen because they have not been legally convicted of cooperation and that they have not been convicted or convicted of the services of criminal acts. If you compare the conditions for obtaining foreign and citizenship status, then you see, but it was the same category of permanent residents in the former country, the common country. Following the collapse of the legal void, it was easy to delete and officials did not act unlawfully, a policy that was not able to confirm the amendment by Mrs Metka Mencin of that time, which regulated this issue. And it is always a policy, responsible, that confirms the text of the law in protection I take to defend the officials whose chairman I am today. Officials are, if people say, unkind, but are too demanding because the rules dictate such behaviour and it is up to us to deal with better, more specific and balanced rules and not to adopt rules that cause the injustices that the Minister is abolishing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Grimes, procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u218	My procedural proposal is very simple, this is an intervention against the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, and not against the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. I was elected to the first democratic assembly, and all the time I was also a member of the Council of State, and I also worked all the time, in recent years, as an "expert" but I have never seen at any interpretation a situation like that of today, when another minister or minister responds as many or more times as the one against whom the interpretation is made. In fact, her service, or his service, or his secretary of state, was in charge. This, of course, speaks very much of the competence of the Minister and I ask you to ensure that the Minister is responsible. Otherwise, we cannot take this as a silent recognition of the incompetence of the Minister against whom the interpolation is being submitted, anything else cannot weigh it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u220	Respected and respected. The absurdity of today’s situation is highlighted by Branko Grims’ teaching us about hate speech. I believe Branko Grims has a lot of experience with hate speech, as he, after all, gives a few clear practical examples of hate speech in each of his public appearances. I want to draw attention to something that the fathers of this republic once wrote down. They wrote that the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality, without any discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force. Respected and respected, these high words are written under the third point, the fundamental constitutional charter of the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the act on which the Statehood of the Republic of Slovenia is based today. And what some have said before about attempts to disqualify independence, respected, is the ultimate disqualification of independence. And I am very happy and confident that today we also have the opportunity to give clear support to Minister Katarina Kresal to overcome the ability and will to realize the third point of this basic constitutional charter. As long as we don't do this, this stain will be on its own. Today is a time when the challenges facing Slovenia should be joined together, unfortunately the actions of the most opposition parties point to an attempt to achieve the opposite. With the hate speech that we have heard in this hall today, unfortunately, a great deal, some have opened doors wide in times that are not appropriate. Let us remember another economic crisis, the 1930s, and how easy some with little demagogism and populism and a lot of hatred have opened the door wide to Nazism and fascism. It is the responsibility of policy today to refrain from such statements. I am confident that the National Assembly will today undergo its great test of respect for the rule of law and rule of law. I'm sure your attempt to destabilise the government coalition will fail. The government coalition is united and strong on this issue, as well as on a number of other issues, and is convinced that it will correct the injustices that have been committed and lead Slovenia clearly better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u221	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. 14 hours and 30 minutes, we'll probably spend it to the end, that's already a known fact, and that soup, which was very hot in the morning, is getting a little chilly this evening, and we can see that there is no more such intense involvement of individuals. Members of the Slovenian National Party, distinguished Minister, today we have been very gentlemanly towards you, we have been softer, kinder and so on, in short, we have not attacked you too aggressively, you cannot tell us that. At least today we're not getting any hate speech. Nevertheless, allow me to express some concerns on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Decisions may be issued deleted as a necessary legal act. We can agree on that, but that's a bad excuse. The decision of the Constitutional Court is an obligation, but not an executive address. In our view, therefore, the Republic of Slovenia should submit a law to Parliament by ordinary procedure to enforce the decision. That's our opinion. Of course, legal opinions are shared here. The nine constitutional decisions are, as you yourself said, and since you are in such a hurry, we do not understand why you are in such a hurry. The fact that we have the only non-conformity right in the case of deleted ones as set out in the Constitutional Decision is not true. The one who read the report of the Constitutional Court - the colleague previously cited the facts, see what a few pages of it, 31 - - we can find that a dozen of the laws in force are inconsistent with the Constitution, and we are not disturbed by that. However, since the public interest is expressed here, we believe that this law should be put into procedure, that it should be submitted and that it should go into the procedure of the National Assembly. Why is there a public interest here? Unless it's because of something else, it's because of the recession. Today, dear Minister, I am Primorc, I will open the Primorske novice, so see, "The event shocked the employees - MIP", Igor Bavčar on the other hand. Five companies went bankrupt today, while we are here talking about whether we are going to make decisions to the deleted. Five. We send 10,000 people a month to the Employment Service. The number at the end of the year will not only be 100,000 unemployed, but probably more. And if that's true, and it is, it's not an April joke, then we have to ask ourselves why it's about this thing that we're in such a hurry. We mentioned a lawyer's lobby, and we changed this kind of law. You're also talking about high damages, and you know, lawyers are probably the first to want to change the law we've already made. In the second context, in the second line, they are already losing their hands to collect large sums - from deleted, of course, of these lawsuits. However, since I am particularly interested in some of the facts from the interpretation, not only me, but also the Slovenian National Party, I would like to ask you in detail about some of the facts. Interpellation reported that many officers and employees of the then JLA, who were expecting an attack on Slovenia, were then sending their families to other republics. That's right. Some families stayed there for a long time. But that's not the only fact. We also had warriors who fought, either in the Croatian battlefield or in Bosnian or Serbian, and they returned here to their families who were here. That's true, too. And the third thing, I mentioned earlier for the speaker is those who, during the war, even during the war, attacked Slovenia quite openly, that is, Mr Aksentijevic, one of these prominent ones who is also suing our champion of the Slovenian National Party of the Victory of Jelinčič today because he was talking in the National Assembly about how inappropriate it is for us to give such compensation to someone or to give him citizenship. From this address, I wonder if everyone will really get these decisions on average. Last but not least, look, there's no rush to issue these decisions in such a way that it should be done tomorrow. It's about people who have a status quo. During this time, these persons have somehow settled their status. Some have a permanent residence, others have citizenship, and I don't see a need as you do. Of course, I can be wrong and allow this option, and therefore I ask you: Why can't this public interest that we refer to be expressed here in full? Furthermore, if we walk through the interpolation, I would like to hear from you whether it is true that this figure of 18,305 has suddenly multiplied to 25,671! And if that's not true, what's the right number? How many have we really deleted? That's a major fact if we're talking about this. Speaking of compensation. Mr Bogdan Barovic has already shown a unique action in which there is only a missing amount, which will be brought by the plaintiffs as soon as they receive the decisions, into the lawsuits and will be brought before the competent courts on the current tape. However, the interpretation states that the maximum individual amount actually reached a lawsuit of EUR 980,000. Of course, if that's what this is about, then I see no reason why not today, even though it's the day of the liars, these untruths deny it. You yourself state in your reply that I refer to your response, that the speaker of the interpretation has re-serviced with a fantastic calculation and that it is projected to be 25 million euros in damage. Of course you're saying that's what they said. For all those who look at us as well as for the state budget, it would be interesting to hear how much this assumption of burden with the date x, so in some delta of this gap, because we know that there will be lawsuits. We already have one legal action or you're saying he's still on trial. Normally, because the complainant complained that he was under 17,000 because he wanted 60,000 euros. Otherwise, this judgment would have been legally binding. And the fact is, when the first judgment is legally binding, then they will follow other actions than the current tape, and this will become so-called legal practice, and this legal practice will, of course, be followed by additional judgments that will be equivalent to the first sentence. Today we talk about the fact that it is absolutely necessary, of course, we cannot believe that. We would like to know whether we will protect those who do not have a job because some have murdered their company or have taken an unlawful advantage. I would be happy to say here today, before you answered, "Yes, but Mr. Wolf has already been detained, but this one is already cold," or, "Mr. Bavčar is in investigative prison. We'll go through the files, then we'll go through them. In three months, you'll get a report on how guilty he is." I'd give you a slap, even if I'm alone in this room. But believe me, that's not gonna happen. Why am I saying this? People who listen to us can believe that some of you are moral here, but believe me, if it comes to 25,000 people, it'll be a pretty election base for someone. The last in line is this problem, which should be addressed as high as we are solving this problem today, the last in line, ladies and gentlemen. All the sooner we should save what we're here for. And your vow, you probably still remember the words you said before you signed your paper, was to work in the interest of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. This is not the interest of Slovenes and Slovenes. This interest should be somewhere else and your priority should be somewhere else. I respect you as a person, I can also say that you are doing your job well, although this does not go in this context of what I'm saying, but you've drawn your priorities a little wrong. Today's also the time to tell you that you've wiped out a little bit, I'll speak to you by rail. And that you need to be beaten because they won't replace you, you know. You'll be secretary by the end of your term. It would therefore be right to listen to the voice of the people, in addition to charm, knowledge, and with this voice of the people, to elevate your work so that you can really say at the end of the term that this work was a success. However, we believe that there is a weaker article in this government than you. It'll all come out in a month or so. But don't let him take you by clapping at your beautiful speech today. It was really beautiful, I also admit, collected thoughts and all the praise that you have gathered so much strength, confidence and courage that you have responded in this way. But the criticism of your work will not stop. We will look at you so much more under your fingertips, and if you cause new injustices to citizens and citizens, because you wrongly set your priorities in your workshop, we will re-write the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u223	Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, thank you so much for all the good wishes. I'm not used to being praised by those who signed the interpolation. It's true, there wasn't much hate speech out of your mouth today, but you listened to me, and you're not too much, are you? I've explained all your questions in a one-hour speech before, and I will again, for all those who are watching us, for all those who may not have listened before. Who's gonna get the decisions? Decisions will be made by those individuals who have already received permanent residence in Slovenia. So they had to file all the evidence, all the documents that they had shown to the administrative authority that they could have permanent residence in Slovenia. And I have already said before that there is no legal judgment in Slovenia to define a person as an aggressor. If you know anyone, please, I believe the police will process as they should. Why are we solving this problem so quickly? Well, it's been 17 years since it started. I'd rather ask why we're still solving this problem after 17 years. And yes, there are other constitutional decisions that are not resolved, but not in my ministry. I will save this one and another one, which we have already saved, because we are so committed to the coalition treaty, and human rights are not just something that could wait years and years and years for the government to go and get rid of them. I think number 25,671 has already been told several times today. Yeah, that's the final number of deleted. Why I believe her why I say it - because it was calculated by those people who have been engaged in this year and years, the only ones I can trust most, by public servants in the Ministry of the Interior's professional services. They did a tremendous job, three months in the process of getting the right numbers. Why there was a bigger number, it was a long story, and I explained it a long time ago. Simplification once again, because it has been a long time since it was deleted, because systems, including information systems, have been changing in the middle, because the political desire to resolve this problem has occurred in the meantime. All these reasons have led us to say that only today or one month ago, when we said this number, this is the number under which all the Ministry of the Interior's professional services were signed. The lawsuits. The fact is, no compensation has been paid yet, and there's nothing to speculate about. And the other procedures that are still going on are twenty-four, not two thousand four hundred, and another twenty-four. And it is unlikely that they will be completed successfully for a thousand legal reasons, one among them is a statute of limitations. Look at the case law. It's very clear. But today we have no reason nor legal nor factual nor any other to say that a catastrophic flood of public finances is threatening us because of the damages that are to go away. It's not. And that's all it's about to say, all the rest are fiction, there's speculation, there's drowning, there's multiplying numbers that don't belong together. In fact, I can't believe you asked me or expected me to list here the names of those who were put in custody by the police, who they were investigating, who they were investigating, and you know I'm not only not allowed to say that, I'm not allowed to know that. In recent years, I believe that this divorce, which is very clearly recorded in the law, has sometimes been mixed up and not only did ministers know what is old. Well, I've told you many times, even in the case of that famous broom; Mr Grims is no longer here; for two euros or as long as he has been, I don't ask the police to start premonition procedures, nor do I order him to deliver them because I can't do that because it doesn't even occur to me. Because I am aware of my responsibilities and responsibilities as Minister of the Interior. Once again, thanks for all the good wishes, I think they'll come in handy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u225	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that the examples that Mrs Janja Klasinc spoke about today are very sad, tragic, as were the cases of Mr Pernett's colleague, Mr Tsukati. However, you have heard that in the meantime, those who were against the decision of Slovenk and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who believed in the project of Slovenia. And if I object to the current enforcement of decisions, it is this fear that some might unduly gain something for which they are not entitled. This would cause both moral and financial damage. Let me tell you, we talk about us Slovenians all the time. I'm going around in circles, too, and many of these people say, "I've arranged it, because it's not my neighbor either. I don't have any problems. Why does the neighbor have problems?" And these people don't agree, they don't like it, not only the Slovenes and the Slovenes, but also the Slovenes. We do not say in the Slovenian People's Party that it is not brave what the Minister is doing, but we say that it is not appropriate. We're not talking, we've got some paperwork in our hands, too. And just one sentence: "According to the unclear legal situation, it is certainly appropriate and necessary for this state of the National Assembly to regulate the law. Signed experts: Prof. Rajko Pirnat, Prof. Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Prof. Dr. Albin Igličar, doc. Dr. Miro Cerar, Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Tone Jerovšek, Prof. Dr. France Bučar, Prof. Dr. Mitja Žagar, Prof. Dr. Franci Grad. A lot of outstanding people. So we're not saying anything. When we talked about stories, I know these sad stories, and I have to tell you, and that's the kind of heart culture that's already been discussed today. Leaving Mommy and the baby in the middle space, but please, I think we had mechanisms in Slovenia that we shouldn't have allowed, and here I'm ashamed, but what I can do, I couldn't solve it. We're talking about the trauma of the Slovenian people. Dear colleagues, we are still unable to begin to resolve and I think we still have many traumas that we will be able to discuss and reach a high-quality conclusion. Today it was said that the Slovenian spring has much more or much, much more positive than this so-called erasure. But it is true that I remember you to return 60, 65 years ago and I can say that the partisan struggle has had much, much more positive than these cases of horror that are currently revealed in Slovenia. That's the truth, too. This too will have to be discussed once and for future generations. I don't have a problem with that. I'm done with everybody because I don't have a problem with that. I really don't. But we're gonna have to talk about this sometime. And if today's debate is, if there is no other objective to be achieved, I hope that at least this goal will be to understand that all injustices must be resolved. It's guilt and it doesn't matter where or who it's done to. However, justice is also a right and everyone must be granted and once again there is no selection. Madam Secretary, you've shown one dispatch. You know what put me at risk. These depots have been so much in our history that I would have put this word somewhere else because they were one who had done great harm to the Slovenian nation. But I know that's not the point, but that's how I felt. There would also be a lot of unconstitutional decisions. I didn't want to wave some papers here in front of you, but when you come with a lot of materials here in this choir, I can show that we have a whole folder of unexecuted constitutional decisions here, but I didn't mean to work that way. In short. I want this matter to end in this direction, so that we can talk about all the injustices and correct all the injustices. When there was a speech, a colleague named Yuri mentioned Makuc, Milan Makuca. I had a cousin named Janez Makuc in America who was also in these a, b zones. But he wasn't in that policy back then. He was in a different policy. He believed another story and had to go to America after the war. The family stayed here. She's a little girl. When he was 15 years old, he could only squeeze this child into his arms, and that's when he got his family when they followed him. But you know, this Mr. Makuc was a duped Slovenian. In the garden he had a Slovenian vine and a plum from Cerkljanski in the basement when Dr. Ernest Petrič, the then ambassador to America, visited him when he was looking everywhere for support for our independence. They were Slovenians, and I can't share Slovenians, and I can't share injustice. So, if it's for what this interpolation is for, let it be a prelude to once discussing the elimination of all injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you, President, for being appointed. I would like to say to my colleague Kres, I believe that one and the other Makuc has been wronged, one in postwar time, and the other in self-sustainment, and that is the point. We are today trying to resolve this issue, to prevent the same injustice, which has different faces, from continuing and in the future. By the way, Mr Makuc, who was born in Raša, Istria, was Slovenian, but was born elsewhere. And because of that and because he didn't know it, of course, he didn't ask for the documents of that time, but he was also a supporter of self-reliance. However, this serious injustice occurred to him, and he eventually died because he had no opportunity and no opportunity to enjoy all health care, the rights that go to the citizens as erased.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u229	Mr. Tom Mencinger has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. The most beautiful legal act of the State of Slovenia is the Constitution. And the Constitutional Court is the one who watches over this constitutionality. This Constitutional Court issued a decision giving the possibility to remedy the injustices that occurred so many years ago. And this decision, I think, is right to respect and to enforce. Today's meeting of the National Assembly, I must say, and I agree with those who have repeatedly warned of the fact that there is a bunch of deceptions, manipulations, lies, demagogies, and I will go back, demagogies, lies, manipulations. I don't think it's going anywhere and it's not good for anyone. Here are the people, here are the families who have experienced these times of real tragedy, very difficult tragedies. And this, I'm going to say, Constitutional Court decision is somehow trying to sort things out. Slovenia, as such, is also a member of the European Union and the Commissioner of the European Union, draws attention to the irregularity in this area, calls on the Ministry of the Interior to regulate these matters and also questions about the rule of law in Slovenia. I think these are some serious questions. Today we are discussing these things for almost 13 hours. The session back or two sessions back here we listened to stories about the crisis in the country where the economy is. I would rather expect, forgive me if these things that we are now discussing could be handled by the court, in particular, and we could talk about the economy, the conditions for development, the resolution of these things and other things. However, I would like to take this opportunity to actually congratulate the Minister, not only for respecting the decision, but also for the presence in the House of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u231	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. I will also begin with some commendation, and I will say that I admire the Minister, her courage, that after six months in active politics you have sacrificed yourself for the "big boss base", I suppose he leads all these matters from behind. Finally, yesterday's public support talks about this. Look, I'm going to say right at the beginning that issuing decisions without individual treatment is a mistake to understand each other. And today this has been said here many times, and some have apparently not yet understood it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are allowing the possibility of someone being wronged, allowing for an opportunity. And I think that the case-to-case treatment would be most appropriate. Look, some have settled their status, some have been tacturing. Some have been intimidated, and some may have been mistreated. And these are the facts. A lot of strangers had their status back then. Probably everyone remembers when it was said, citizenship in Slovenia can be obtained for the value of one bag of potatoes. I guess we all remember that. But to whom it is most unjust. It's the most unfair thing for those who settled that status at the time, to those who did. I spoke to someone yesterday who's settled this status. You know what he said to me, "I was so stupid. I would now have the opportunity, I would have the decision, and this is, for example, a prerequisite for the application of any compensation." I ask, do you really believe here in this hall that 25671 people have been here in Slovenia all this time? That's impossible. And today I got at 17.51 at my e-mail address, which says, "Honored! I turn to you with the desire to explain the problem that is practically happening to us in the house." There's been a lot of talk today about cases, and now I'm going to read it too. "A woman lived at our address 20 years ago. A while ago, the police came to us twice with a court order and mail and inquired about this woman, whether she lived at this address. About three weeks ago, this woman appeared outside the door and inquired if any mail had come to our address because she was registered at this address. We were amazed to see how she could be reported at our address because we knew virtually nothing about her. She said that she had lived with our old mother, who had died since January 1991 and had been in a nursing home since 1989. Then the same lady, who now came 20 years ago, went to Bosnia to babysit the children, and now she has returned. And if we happen to get any more mail, let's give it to her at the address where she's staying temporarily. I believe that similar stories about deleted and withdrawn during the war for Slovenia are yet another thing and that we do not have the duty of Slovenians to support such problems and to financially support matters." This is the mail someone sent me with a name and a last name. If I am to guess, it is possible that this lady is one of the 7,000 new so-called deleted. I can see it that way. Madam Minister has decided to issue a decision to all so-called deleted persons, which will also be the basis for compensation, I am sure that this will be the case. And what are we doing today with the interpretation of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the People's Party and the National Party? We're preventing even greater damage. That's what we do. This interpolation prevents more damage. In my opinion, it is necessary to stop issuing decisions and adopt a constitutional law which provides for individual treatment of each application individually. I want to stop making an impression on this Chamber, members of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not realize that it is possible that someone is being wronged. We are aware of this and, therefore, we would like each case to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis rather than on a flat-rate basis. This case is eloquent enough to raise doubts about the claims we have heard a little while ago, and I wonder why we are doing it or why you are doing it. I think it is time for us to stop moving around and find out together that there will be compensations and that the Slovenian Left will get 25,000 and so many new elections and voters and that this is the priority of this government, which is unacceptable to me and I will say insulting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u233	Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Technical correction first. Interpellation was tabled by 23 MEPs and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not one member of the Slovenian People's Party, not one member of the Slovenian National Party, is signed. So much for your knowledge. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, I have already closely followed the presentation of the interpretation and also the response to it, and what first fell into my eyes, is undoubtedly a very boisterous, very poor attempt on the part of the interpreters to use the changed terms when they were replaced by the term translated, how would this changed use of the terms actually try to stifle the truth and social reality and some false hope in order to eliminate by this operation and by renaming in fact, if they have not already deleted, the unpleasant truth that this true concept of deleted brings on a day. This, of course, reminds us of the hope, perhaps, of some Utopians who believed that renaming social reality could change this reality in itself. I, once in this assembly in the previous term, will be excused by old Members and Members of Parliament, regretting mentioning one such case in the middle of the 1970s, when they introduced the concept of united work and at the same time abolished the concept of profit and, of course, look at it, when they abolished the concept of profit, after a few years of profit there was no more. And the current advocates of the novice expect that if they change the concept of deleted, if they remove the term, they will not be deleted, so the concept will not be deleted and deleted. The 11th School of Political Science under the bridge reaches this and no further. Secondly, I am surprised that no one has ever asked, for I asked myself immediately at the beginning, who is interpolating whom here. Who's the interpolated, and who's the interpolated? Either the interviewees are interpreting the Minister or, as I asked myself at the end of her excellent performance, the Minister is interpolating the interpellants. In fact, dear colleagues, I think it's only right that after 12 hours you find that you are in some way intertwined. That the question is, not the conduct of the minister, but that your views are questioned. In fact, we owe a better explanation as to why you think you have a legitimate right, and not why the Constitutional Court's decision is being enforced. Here, you might say, the tool once turned against the master, who has always been good at using it, except of course in the previous term. I would also like to draw attention to this story by Janez Drnovska. I've talked to him about this problem myself many times, and I must say that all you've said about it is pure manipulation. True, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, President of the Republic, allowed for constitutional law. But only if the constitutional law fully covers the implementation of the constitutional decision itself, fully and without any remainder. This is a clear position which he has repeatedly stressed and with which he also stressed that if the constitutional law is already an option, if we can make it through this, then why not. He gave the content an advantage over the form. Let me warn you, because it is also true that at that time the Group of Non-Aligned Members, in fact, took a similar position that we have consulted informally with a number of constitutional experts who have expressed distrust of such a procedure, but have somehow said, try, although the constitutional law is not important, try and we will see where you will go. And we did have a meeting with Minister Matthew, and I was present, and I organized it. And at this meeting, we had a very thorough, very interesting conversation with Minister Matthew. We presented him with proposals and requests for what kind of law would be acceptable to us. Minister Mate said simple, very interesting, but that goes beyond my mandate. I must ask my political boss and Prime Minister Janez Janša and Minister Mate never returned. There was no response and there was no further discussion. And in 2007 it became quite clear that the constitutional law or even the resolution of the issue had been deleted for the week’s coalition, and especially for SDS and NSI, it was interesting for one single reason. And this is the coming Presidency of the European Union, and as you spin the story, it gives the impression that it is being resolved and in this way the coalition is to defend itself with ever-increasing readings by the European Union as well, that this problem is not resolved. I was going to say a few words myself to Dr. Gorenak personally because he's not present, and I'm not going to say that. But there's only one thing I'd like to say. I think, dear colleagues, that the moment, some use the English term "momentum", has changed. It has changed in this way that six years ago, seven years ago, every minister and minister, including Katarina Kresal, would probably have been destroyed in this Parliament and in this public. That's what things looked like. Today, this moment has changed. Today I hear words when people say, the problem is that politics has brewed, politics has to solve it. Today, more and more people know that it is not a question of citizenship, but of permanent residence. Today, more and more people know that the problem of compensation, if linked, is linked to the fact that it is deleted, not to a constitutional decision, but to decisions issued by the current ministry. They also do not know today that the right to compensation is a constitutional right that everyone has the right to enjoy and on the path of justice if he thinks he is deprived of it anywhere, whenever he has to enforce it. And today people know that these damages have not yet been made, that they will probably never be, as you said. And this is of course, it comes to people, step by step, the "moment" has changed and the topic has changed and the weapon has hit me, I mean, really, once against you. And what else am I trying to say? How many times must we say: the issue of decisions by definition is an individual treatment, cannot be a collective treatment. And that's always and everywhere, like that. And if we went to a different solution, we could just repeat the error, the error of the week, when we collectively, again, delete earlier, and now, if I may say so, delete these people back into the directory. There is no other dilemma. All I want to say is that word, and then I'm done. I would, even though she is the Minister, once again stress whether in these decisions the Constitutional Court acted as a positive legislator. I quote, very simply, again, this time, I, the former President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Lovra Šturm, who in the commentary to Article 153 of the Constitution states on this subject, "The decision of the Constitutional Court should also be considered as a legal provision when the Constitutional Court, pursuant to Article 40(2) of the Constitutional Court Act, determines the manner in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is to be implemented." Pika. It's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u235	Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u236	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister. Respectable ministers. Other government representatives, esteemed MPs, esteemed MPs. Today, not a little has been said, as some MEPs say, but a lot of lies. There was a lot of deception, cheap populism and demagogies. When you run out of arguments, you reach out on your favorite subject, about your credits for the creation of a single country, about an aggressor, about enormous damages and your relationship with your country. Everyone else said we were playing in the sandstone at the time, in your opinion. I assure you, that's not true either. I have my own status as a war veteran for Slovenia. I was a member of the Manevre National Protection Structure, like many of my colleagues, party friends. Of course, we were happy to help on our way to Slovenia. At the time, I was a member of the ZSMS Liberal Party or Liberal Democracy and I am still today. And you know who has bigger ones and who has less credit for the independence of this beautiful country of ours, to be judged by others, not politicians. I say that we have all contributed a significant proportion on this path to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia - both the police, both territorial defence, politics, those who have carried out important diplomatic duties, as of course many employees in public service, in the field of health, education, education and many others. But it doesn't give anyone the right to kind of beat human rights, because then we fought for a democratic, legal and social state. We have fought for human rights, respect for differences and respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court, or respect for the principle of the division of power. You say it's not a good time. What time is it if not after 17 years? Do you know when the time is right for you? Never in the world. It's time for you to settle this problem with St. Nicholas. Presumably, they're not the real priorities of this government. Who's forcing us to discuss these issues? You're forcing us to discuss these issues. We, or the Slovenian government and everyone else, also want to deal with the problems that are now in society, both in the field of the economy and the financial crisis, and I am firmly convinced that we will succeed in proposing such measures so that we can alleviate all the difficulties that this crisis has brought. You're saying it's not the right way. What, though, is the right path if the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not consistently respected and complementary decisions issued consistently? I know that this is not the right way for you, because it is difficult to walk on the path of law, respect for human rights and other constitutional principles. You're asking why we're doing this. I'm asking you why you're doing this. If we respected the law, we would then leave the Constitution to officials to issue supplementary decisions and that the decision of the Constitutional Court is fully enforced. By refusing to intercede against the Minister of the Interior, which I firmly believe, we will in some way allow not only the smooth issuance of supplementary decisions as part of the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but we will also consistently advocate respect for the division of power or the principle of the division of power. Any delay in enforcement shall mean the continuation of the anti-constitutional situation. Everything else, of course, is political and also legal abuse. I would like to ask the interpellationers, although I know that in vain, to refrain from comparing and calculating the money bags they will receive as compensation, while Slovenia is facing poverty or economic and financial crisis. It's two completely separate cases. I have already said that the Government is taking action, and I am sure that the Government will successfully address the economic and financial crisis with the package of measures that follow. The applicants forget or, in my opinion, deliberately deceive that the determination of the right to compensation is a matter of court judgment and not a matter of the decision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and that the fact of unlawful deletion does not in any way establish compensation responsibility. This is the cheap collection of political points, as well as the entire intervention made against Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal, which is why my support for your conduct, which in this way violates the principles of the rule of law, you have not had it now and you will not have it in the future. Therefore, I will not support the interpretations lodged against the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u237	Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister Kresalova, ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! TV viewers have a choice, we've heard a few times today, and I think today a lot of people have switched the channel they've been watching us on to the football game that's going on right now - they say it's nothing: nothing right now. Well, we also get to the football very quickly. In fact, these were also deleted among athletes and also football players or coaches. Last but not least, one of these was also the coach of Olympia Suad B., not to mention the last name, but those who follow the football a little bit, you probably know who I'm talking about. Born Ljubljanačan, Trnovčan, who played in all Slovenian selections, was a successful footballer, coach and apatrid. After 2000, the matter was settled with him, and he was also granted citizenship. But the ten years he spent, he could say, in total misery, when he sold out all his belongings, shows us a picture of what we have been talking about for more than 12 hours now. Today, much has been said, today's interpolation is personally perceived as part of the creation of emergency situations by the interpolation proponents, which I can base on several things that have taken place in these four months, since the adoption of the final account, the convening of extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, committees, this interpretation, the announcements of the referendum, and you probably have a lot more to create in the arsenal. Of course I'm sure you won't make it. I can say, with all due respect to the Minister, that she insists on implementing constitutional provisions, with all due respect to the Minister for today's performances, and, of course, I will not support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u239	Mr. Alan Bukovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u240	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies ministers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. When I first had the opportunity to hear about the deleted five years ago, we were looking before Parliament at some people who were dressed in white clothes legal in front of Parliament in the form of the word 'Deleted, move on' I did not fully understand their reasons for doing this. Then the 2004 elections took place, and the darkness disappeared overnight from the front pages of newspapers and media. However, it did not leave me alone to try to understand these sensitive topics, and the more I examined the documents, the more I understood why and how this action occurred. I come from the countryside, and in me, at least I think, there's a little farm logic. I don't really understand the legal language, and that's how I explained it in my own way. For example, my neighbor, because I come from places just outside the border with the Republic of Austria, has been employed in Austria for many years. And I asked him if, because he was working in Austria, he also had Austrian citizenship and his answer was that he needed temporary residence and work permits and some other less important documents for his work in Austria. "Did they offer you citizenship in Austria?"I asked him. And his answer was no. "And even if I did," he says, "I wouldn't take it because I don't need it." Then I asked him, "If I didn't want to take over citizenship, would the Republic of Austria put you on the border with Slovenia?" "Oh, where," he replied. And he asked me, "Why are you confusing these two notions of citizenship and the status of permanent residence?" "You can stay in any country with a regulated status of permanent stay or temporary stay and you do not have to be a citizen of this country." What, then, does citizenship have to do with the status of temporary or permanent residence? Then I reviewed the documents from 1991 and came to an interesting conclusion. So our country wiped these people out because they didn't get their citizenship, but they just wanted to stay and work in this country, delete them from the permanent residence register. Today, we have heard many times the word of independence, veterans, and many times we have been told that we are talking about members of the enemy army, military speculators, and so on. I'll try to say it on my own case. I was alone in 1991, when a student war for Slovenia took place and I was not invited to the Territorial Defence, but one evening a friend called me, who was an active participant and a health department commander, told me that he needed some transport boys at a possible armed conflict at a nearby border crossing for the transport of wounded to a health home and then to a hospital. Of course, I responded to his request immediately, four of my friends did so, and we carried out transportations to the Territorial Defence from the health home to the hospital and back throughout the war for Slovenia. The wars for Slovenia were over, and we all returned to our daily tasks. After a while, a fellow worker invites me to go and settle the status of a veteran of the war for Slovenia, because I was active in the independent war. But when I came to the war department and wanted to apply for the status of a veteran of the war on Slovenia, I got the answer that people like me and my friends don't consider marriage and I can't get status. It is only now that I understand how those who came to arrange their documents for the administrative unit felt and took their documents away and pierced them. I wonder if in the future I myself will be labeled an aggressor if this goes on. One of those who came to settle any bad hunches, driver's license papers, was also a gentleman who still lives in the Drava Valley today, and it's not true that these people don't live here. To the question of why you pierced my documents, he got the answer that he didn't have an orderly residence status. Let's take a look at his life course. His father was employed on the railroad, and his mother and I moved to Ptuj for work. The lady was pregnant, and as she was preparing for delivery, she drove to the hospital on Ptuj. Look at the fragment. It was just that week that they were painting the maternity ward on Ptuj, and they took the lady to Varaždin to give birth. Due to the staining of the maternity ward, this gentleman was among the deleted, and when he finally found out what was going on, he immediately applied for a temporary residence and obtained a decision in 1993. Your Honor, this gentleman, who has himself settled the status of validity of the decision, will receive a supplementary decision from the Minister in those days for the period from 26 February 1992 until the decision is issued in 1993. I wonder what's wrong here and why the Minister's got herself an interpolation if she's actually setting up a situation and a situation as it should have been. But I can't imagine what will happen when these supplementary decisions are issued and we will get to those deleted, which have not yet been settled for such or other reasons. Since they may have been ignorant or have not been offered assistance by the administrative authority in the context of the aid to the ignorant party. Since I explain things to myself best by chance, here's another case that's even more incredible. With us, even in the Drava Valley, there is still a lady with a name and surname that I will not give; next time, I will ask her if I can say it; who by 1991 gave birth to seven Slovenes and Slovenes. As in the previous case, of course, she does not have the status of permanent residence or temporary residence, but she did not get it even after she found out. She recently called me and asked me to visit my father, who is very ill in Croatia and if I can help her. After about two hours of calling, we stayed at the Croatian embassy, where they told me and her that the lady was among the deleted. Ma'am, it's been deleted for 18 years. I really don't know what will be obvious to me when we also support the law for the reason that I arrange the situation of this lady, who gave birth to seven Slovenes and Slovenians, and today she is using her husband's medical card to visit a doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u241	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, three key findings were mainly raised in the debate. The first observation was that they had been erased by themselves because they had been specifically invited to arrange their new status as a foreigner. That's not true. Some congregations invited them to do so, and others did not. [[...]] The fact is, they killed the wrongs were committed and we can't escape before that. You have acknowledged this by the opposition and the applicants themselves. The country, and this is a fact, without legal basis in 1992, wiped out more than 25,000 inhabitants of Slovenia, including thousands of children and women, of whom 5,000 children and 10,000 women. The second observation today was that they were people who speculated, people who were aggressors who were against self-reliance, even though they did not want Slovenian citizenship; it was once said that they even looked at us through a mirror of a double tube. Therefore, it is right to know who these people are and what has happened to them in all these years. I'm going to give just one example of my partner from Ptuj, the story of Mira Učakkar, who was born on Ptuj's father Croatia and Mother Primorka. She was automatically assigned nationality to the place where her father was born. Although she was born Slovenka, she lost all social rights and soon lost her job as a result of her disappearance. In the middle of the war, she had to settle for Croatian citizenship, even though she had been in Croatia only three times in her life. She only obtained her work permit two years ago and her citizenship wants only one condition: "In my application, I wrote that I will not perform the tests of the Slovenian language. I had a Slovenian in all schools, and I also had the Slovenian exams that I had done. And since I am a Slovenian, I find it very humiliating to test the knowledge of Slovenian." And I wonder if in your opinion this person really opposed the independence of Slovenia, whether she really speculated and was an aggressor in the war. I've got a lot of these stories here. I believe you've read them and maybe you don't want to understand them. The stories are real, and they're very painful. The erasure brought many to the brink of survival, preventing them from continuing their schooling, returning to their homes, sleeping on the street, and could still be listed. The third observation today was that the decisions issued would be the basis for compensation. That's not true either. Decisions are not issued to everyone, but only to those who have regulated status in Slovenia, i.e. residence, foreign status, or have already acquired citizenship in the meantime. This has already been highlighted several times today. Everyone else will be covered by a special law, through which individual cases of deletion will be dealt with, i.e. from case to case, as you would like. As far as compensation is concerned, it is also clear that there can be no compensation under the Bond Relations Act, to date there have been no compensations. However, if a court finds at some point that there has been a case where compensation has been made, it is also appropriate that those who have been injured receive it. You have no arguments to speak for your claims. Even more, you remain lonely in your position, and you no longer have support from your profession. Even if we had them, the task of the state is clear. The legal order and decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. Even if we don't like these decisions. The claim that we will only take care of the deleted and forget about the others in this mandate is a shameless instigation of this government, which has begun to solve the accumulated problems. And it will also solve other areas, such as the open issues of war for Slovenia and the Law on Victims of War Violence. That's it. What have you done in the last four years? And why do you now have such a strong desire to resolve matters right now?Oh, my God! When problems arose, you had the opportunity to solve problems, and you did not solve them. This government saves them, one by one, and so it will be in the future. In times of economic crisis, regrettably, dear colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, you do nothing but create demagogies, use people's difficulties to collect political points and build your vision for the future on the shoulders of the unemployed. Such a future, which is full of lies and falsehoods, especially ideological divisions on the left and right, I do not want to personally. Especially at a time when people really don't care about our infertile debates in the National Assembly, they expect action in particular. You're wasting valuable time, and you know it, and you're taking advantage of it. But when you boast of introducing a warm meal for students and a free kindergarten for another child, say that money for these projects has been provided by this government and not by your government. I sincerely support Minister Kresal's support, so I will not support the interpretation. But I also wish that we not only correct the injustices for our return, but also find out who did the wrongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u243	Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u244	Good evening. Today at nine o'clock, after nine o'clock, there was some talk about horns that we're going to have to grab the horns. I think those signatories who have horns will need more to move our minister out of this position. We started with literary inputs in the belief that culture will ease that part, and this is obviously not possible in this House to alleviate tensions through cultural inputs. But if Cankar were to write about the Shentflorian Valley now, he would probably write a very fat book, because the mud we're throwing here today is huge. In its introduction, the Minister stated that interpretation is against common sense. And that is probably the title of tonight’s or today’s meeting of the National Assembly. It is a loss of the reputation of Parliament and also of parliamentarians. When proposers talk about the global crisis, about the problems of many citizens and citizens, they should be aware that there are ministers among us who are facing hard work tomorrow and are literally wasting time. If I were the Prime Minister, I'd relieve you and say go rest, and we'll spit in our hands tomorrow, and we'll save the economy and other countries. But, Your Honor, your problem is that you ran into a very upright and strong minister. And your problem is, in the government, we have quite a few ministers who are going to make you gray hair, as you can see. I am proud of this, and the environment also assesses the ladies in our government very positively. When I talk about our government, I think about the common government. For when President Janez Janša was in the previous government, he was also my president, and I never said that, but this is their government. It was my government, my president, and we should be acting the same today. It's not like we're sharing ours here. It's like we're the greatest enemies. Understanding and explaining the contentious decision of the Constitutional Court is at odds with the understanding of the rule of law, and much has been said today, I will not repeat this. I am truly sorry that in these five months, what I have heard in this House, I have heard so many lies, so many floods, so many bitter words for unnecessary. Finally, at the beginning of this meeting, which we started, I think on Monday, a colleague publicly explained that they do not have water and water in Trnov in Nova Gorica, such as this View of the Mayor of Nova Gorica in the eyes and lies that there is no water on Trnov. [[...]] And who benefits from that? I'm not gonna afford that for that side, for that, for no one. And there's no need for us to spit on each other and speak utter falsehoods. These lies hurt, and that's not good, and it doesn't lead to bringing this country together to a better tomorrow. Everyone's told me some experience, and I've had them erased with something, so let's make it just one. Senior lady from Gradnikov Brigade Street - that you will not now change the name of this street [[Laugh]] - she was celebrating her 100th birthday three years ago. And when I got there, she was very pleased, and she said, because I can't die because I don't exist, I don't have a ID, I can't die. How they got rid of the dead because then she died two years later, I don't know. But she was pleased, you know, that's interesting. It is sad, however, that the whole family cared, Slovenia, born in Slovenia 100 years ago, calculate in which country. But she did work all over Yugoslavia, and she wasn't an officer or a "military face". I'd end up like this. Let's get our minds in our hands. These divisiveness, division into ours and yours, abuse or individual options, adjusted interpretation of history, pitiful acts and so on for political purposes, exploitation of the dead, all of this contributes to the today Italians mending our memorial marks in Slovenia; this was not the case. We take care of words, unite forces, and I am sure that Interpol cannot succeed under any circumstances, because it is an extraordinary minister and because it does what this environment and legislation require of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if it's going to be very difficult to discuss after all the emotional speeches I've heard from you. In fact, I would like to say for the introduction that we have in Article 2 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social state. This means that before the law we are all equal and that injustices and legal procedures for all are conducted and dealt with under the same conditions, in the same way. Where injustice is done, I am for it, and I support that injustices be rectified, but I am also for injustices to be corrected to all under the same conditions, in the same way. I don't know why we would have solved the problem of campers, stolen children, exiles, interners, labour deportations and refugees, and any other victims of double violence, which happened in a different way than the ones or problems of those who were transferred from one record to another. I don't know why let's say we solve the area of double matters differently. I am in favour of the injustices of those who have been brought into the same laws and their injustices being dealt with under the same law with the same correction of wrongs. That is to say those who would be found to have suffered harm in the process, or that they have been deprived of being injured, should be assessed by one of these categories and monthly lumps as we have given them and determined for each month of continued violence. For example, for a camper, we have given about EUR and a half, for expulsion, we have a very active exile society, 15 or 20,000 members have in Posavje, we recognise 0.835 euros per month, monthly compensation, and I don't know why not for the so-called deleted, for those who will be found guilty, too. To give them a lump sum, just like we are to all those who are harmed by war laws, and to grant them some compensation. What's with all the pay? Here we have representatives of a number of veteran organisations from, say, World War II, who are very committed to the rights of their people, but for the rights of their members, according to the laws you have adopted, matters are significantly worse. Substantially worse. I am in favour of all these damages, all of these beneficiaries being regulated in the same way, in a uniform manner, and fixing such maximum compensation that we also determine monthly benefits or allowances to pensions for each month or pay, in any way, but in the same way. I am also in favour of these compensations being paid in the same way. We have a Slovenian Compensation Society, which we have set up to pay from its fund, from its assets, injustices, injustices to deportations, expulsions, internees and all others, which, if the will of the coalition is to be so, will also be added to the new beneficiaries of these damages. I am also in favour of their entitlements being paid in the same manner as laid down in the law governing the payment of compensation to victims of war and post-war violence, to pay their cash in the amount of 1251.88 euros and to pay the rest of the entitlement in the bonds of the Slovenian Compensation Society. I do not object to solving this problem, but the problem is that for the beneficiaries of one war we deal with matters in one way, in a specific way and for the other beneficiaries who were in the second war, we deal in a completely different way. For one of the rules of compensation, the law is predetermined and prescribed, and until it is regulated, we have not determined and paid them. For others, let the compensation be determined by the court. Why is that? I wonder why. I would suggest, I propose, that the Chair of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Andreja Černak Meglič convenes a meeting, invites all these groups of internants, exiles, deportations, refugees and also so-called deleted persons, and that we find out in the joint meeting whether these entitlements would be accounted for and paid in the same way. Why some who pay compensation under the introductory laws are subject to an interest rate plus one percent, and some who later exercised these rights, such as the so-called deleted ones, with late interest. Why do not we also account for the interest on that principal, which is defined as compensation, for all victims of one or another war, all beneficiaries after one or the other war in the same way? I think that's a fundamental question. And if we do not solve matters in the same way, then we cannot say that we are all equal before the law and that we regulate legal status on the same terms and in the same way. And why do we propose that these matters be regulated by constitutional law? Because compensation could also be fixed in advance. To find out, in fact, that we close this container once and for all, and limit the number of deleted. In the way that this is happening to us now, it will happen to us that every year we will have several or several thousand deleted more. No problem will lead to two witnesses and prove that someone was with someone who had a status deleted and damaged. There are cases where this is happening. There are cases. And I propose that you support a solution by constitutional law to close these cases, to find out once, in fact, whether these deleted 18305, as I do not know how many years Constitutional Judge Krivic has spoken, whether these cases have been deleted as many as you have published, I think that in January following that diversion from Belgrade, after that desant from Belgrade. We can laugh, we can joke, but things are very serious. And I think that the least we can do is to regulate and resolve these matters in exactly the same way. For example, why would exiles who actually suffered, labour deportations, exiles, mobilizers get, I don't know, 0.85 or 0.83 euros a month's compensation, and this amounts to, say, 12 euros a year, times 10 years is 120 euros, and someone else gets 17,000 plus late interest for the same period, which ultimately amounts to 40, 50 thousand euros. Why is that? Why is that?Oh, my God! Some other things may need to be settled. I propose that we proceed in identifying the beneficiaries of the correction of injustices as we do in those who settled this matter during or after World War II. Individually. Everyone had to come to the office. Although we knew that these people were in the camps, he had to bring a witness or a documentary evidence. In the case of deleted, this is not necessary, without documentary evidence, without the application being justified. However, we do have among these people, who are so-called deleted people, who moved away, as was the case before anything happened. Let's say before a referendum the secretary doesn't know when he was on his own. Some are in this interim, transitional period between the referendum and that deadline for the declaration of independence, some later. Some have built houses and, like the locals, have settled down, have returned to their homelands, have returned there, and now that circumstances have changed, because things have not been settled because they have not been published in the records, we now have them on the list for deleted. Why don't you take these procedures away from me, like for other categories of residents? Perhaps it would be helpful to determine whether this so-called deleted person took advantage of legal options, received invitations, responded to these invitations. That too should be established. There must be a record of the invitations sent. Just like now, when you're transferring these invitations from the police to addresses that you're supposed to be in 20 years or 15 years ago, and so on. Many of these things have accumulated at this time, and I think it would have to be handled differently. We have already had a case of solving problems deleted in a very similar way. At the end of the previous term, Minister Bohinc went on to solve this problem. He even made two laws. However, one systemic and one technical project was not implemented. He didn't pull it off. Now, at the beginning of your term of office, you did this differently, without any legal basis. I don't think these things are good and the way is not right. Many might have been answered or replicated, but it is not to be overlooked that the liberal governments were in power 12 years after the independence, Drnovšek led them quite a few. He had a very capable secretary, who was now the Minister for Higher Education, a party's official, but he failed in this area, although he had a large coalition majority, yet no party in the National Assembly had as many members in the coalition as the Liberal Democracy had at that time, but they were not able to move forward. Mr Pahor, mentioned earlier, is a series of years of top policy, a series of years of your party's principle, was president of the National Assembly in one of the mandates, and nothing has been done in this area. Nothing. So why are you accusing others? First, take care of your own affairs and you will see that you have not done much in this area. Even more, the former Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, has sent a message that there are absolutely no mistakes or anything in this area regarding the regulation and regulation of matters after their independence. In short, you've legitimateized politics yourself, you've legitimateized the situation, and now you're accusing others. I propose that things be regulated by the constitutional law and I also propose that, because things are not being resolved systematically because they are not being resolved as usual for the rule of law, you also support this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u248	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to limit myself from eight sheets to conclusions. Today, Minister Kresalova, I am sorry, has made all the facts very clear in this House, namely the facts about the problem of the so-called deleted, the situation has been defined today. It was explained how systematic solutions will be made to what human rights mean in this problem. Who did this, where is the original sin, and who will be responsible? And it was also revealed what the solution to erase means, what the solution to the rest of Slovenia means with the basic data of 40,000 decisions issued, 30 cases resolved and none appealed. The presentation of Minister Kresalov was clear, correct and fair. As you can see, I am not sitting in the benches of colleagues from LDS, but I am sitting in the benches of SD and I thank you for this presentation of deleted, it was professional and I congratulate you for that. But today I have experienced and listened to all the teaching subjects of all colleges together, their subroutines and all the directions. Some of you have been patient, normal, and prudent. I was disturbed only by those rare individuals, the debaters in this House, from whom I could see hatred, hate speech and intolerance. That's what I'm judging. But I am quite pleased with the one and only fact that there has been no attack on you, Minister, or on your personality, that at least these disqualifications have all been successfully avoided. That's positive, but I'm still not going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The competition is slowly ending, the result is known, the audience is already leaving the stadium. The team coach and the proponent also left the club during the game, and the club president said good-bye early in the morning, and now he's back before the end. Answers are being asked what to tell the press as an excuse to lose. They're looking for and they're opening up new themes. The story, the game, but certainly not the league, was lost in a fair and corrective way. The first ones have not been erased, we have all won, all of us, all of you, who are going to strike tomorrow with the fact that in the field of restricting, reducing or harming your rights in the country. But since there is some time and it is fair in sports to fight to the last judge's whistle, let us point out a few more facts, especially so that some of the lies that have been told too many times do not come true. There have been quite a few speeches by the proponents on citizenship, legislation and deception in relation to citizenship. The foreign profession justifiably praised our legislation, and it is still today that this legislation in it, on this law on foreigners, has not been and is not one word on the deletion or any grounds for deletion. The international institutions have been informed of this and, of course, all those who responded have said one thing, what is normal for a civilized world and a democratic Europe, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected. We have heard quite a few accusations and the statement is at the expense of Mr Krivica's former constitutional judge, when he should have followed Beethoven when he was disturbed. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, in 2002 and 2000, Mr Matevž Krivic was no longer a constitutional judge, that was until 1998 and I wish that Slovenia would, of course, have more so-perceptive lawyers and, above all, persons we can call people with a large beginning. We also heard that these people were not in Slovenia at all; in the meantime, fourteen to fifteen thousand were granted citizenship, apparently they were here. There was a bunch of readings and there was even an idea to set up an investigative commission because it finally became clear that someone didn't know how much money was in his wallet or that he had badly repaired archives. And to someone who's finally cleared up the matter and put it in order, it's now obvious and threatening to interpret. We have heard of the Lord, unfortunately he is not here with us, Kleno Pohorc, who has confessed and told many who have gone into trouble to accompany them to the administrative unit and save their status or status, are saved by legislation and the rule of law or personal ties and acquaintances. I think the organs are waiting for something to work. We've heard a lot of stories about money, and there'll be damages, and how much money, and how much will it cost? You may have calculated how much it costs to build a new Ministry of the Interior without a call for proposals. The taxpayers will cost us six times as much as they have so far, and the issue of internal equipment is also open. And these are sworn democrats, legalists and honest men at home, without a call for tender. We had, like, a month or two ago, some tragic story of Slovenian history, and I have to say, I have often imagined that if these deleted people lived in May 1945 and if the government in Slovenia were different than today's then to be kind and well expressed, I was rightly afraid for these people. There's something else. I'm going to repeat 11 more times, what I'm proposing to more than once. As one of the veterans of the war for Slovenia, I demand that you finally stop protecting those who fought against Slovenia. I just don't see any other reason. You're messing with hundreds of names. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we have asked you some very specific questions this morning when we present our position. Maybe you overheard them. We certainly didn't get an answer, so I'll repeat it. We have called and asked you to present and appoint specific individuals, individuals who belong to our country, officers and soldiers JLA, in view of the constant emphasis and conscious manipulation that they are being wiped out in the vast majority for the aggressors, enemies of our country. You didn't answer. We have asked you to answer us if you really have the data and the cases that are among the deleted aggressors who have violated our laws, whether you have filed criminal charges, what you have had every opportunity to do, and what you are ultimately obliged to do, and you could also do at a time when you had as a ruling party in your hands all the leverage to do so. You didn't answer us. We asked you why you failed to fulfil the promise you made before the 2004 elections to revise the supplementary decisions issued by Minister Bohinc when you come to power. You had all the leverage, you had the power, you had the authority, you had the authority, you had the interior minister, Mate. Why, then, was no supplementary decision repealed? I put thesis, you didn't do it because these supplementary decisions are in line with the law and can't be repealed, and you haven't answered that either, you haven't explained anything. Because clearly this thesis is true and because it is clear that today's interpretation against Minister Kresal's is unfounded and merely a politicized farce. I asked you whether a number of international human rights institutions, such as the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Amnesty International, as well as a number of others, who have publicly condemned us for deletion, or whether all these international institutions are wrong. They didn't answer. I asked Mr Janez Janša whether, in 1991 and 1992, he had signed contracts for employment in the Territorial Defence with people that could be counted as aggressors and enemies. It is said that almost 200 former JLA officers were involved and these people were without citizenship at the time of signing these contracts, without expressing the loyalty of Slovenia. We didn't get an answer. Today we have already said that we feel as if we have stepped into a room with mirrors, where the image is distorted, where the Mayans become large, where the fat ones become dry, and where lawbreakers become conscientious and driven defenders of the country and the country. Now that we don't have your answers, at least I've listed some of them, we can say that if I look again in literature, we're in a room called a deaf vine.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, on page 732, you can see, Mr Sayovic, that I did not speak as you said to Mr Krivic. However, let me conclude only with these words, on behalf of the 40,000 veterans of the war on Slovenia, I call on Mr Rojo to justify himself immediately. He said the following. That, I judge myself among them, we went cowboys on the roads. This is an unacceptable insult to 40,000 people who exposed their lives, some of whom died. This is an unacceptable insult. All those, their relatives, their wives and children who don't have parents today. Let's not let this happen in this House. I expect an apology for these 40,000 people. He also said that Slovenia was not established [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. After 12 or more hours of work, I can tell you that I am not only sure, but also satisfied that the interpolation will not succeed. However, my satisfaction comes not from the number of votes the coalition has had since the first day, because we knew that they could not get the necessary majority of Slovenian Democrats who requested interpretation, but I am pleased at the content of today's debate, which proved that the interpretation was empty, without grounds, without arguments, poorly defended, and that your rate of intensity of positions you had, from hour to hour, could also be reduced from minute to minute to minute, that you actually said that you did not really know why you put the interpellation into, because it would be best if you talked about solving damages for everyone who was ever after World War II or after the independence of the victim of the illegal state. I am also pleased that we have succeeded with the excellent performances of the Minister and the prepared positions of the coalition to ensure that in the public opinion a new knowledge has certainly been developed in connection with the deleted, which you have managed so far with the half-truths and lies you have launched, to form in your image. I'm sure after today's session it won't be like this anymore. It appears that your approach to interpretation was inadequate. Today it was found that the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision could not be implemented differently than it was implemented, and the Minister made that clear. It was found that the referendum should not be ignored because the referendum was adopted before the Constitutional Court found and recommitted to the Ministry that the 8th point must be implemented directly because it was already in violation of the Constitution and because the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court in relation to the deleted were in breach. It has been shown that the issue of decisions based on point 8 and later on by law will not constitute a distinction, but the same legal basis for all, since those to whom decisions will be issued on the basis of point 8 of the Constitutional Court decision have already been assessed whether they meet the conditions for granting them either nationality or permanent residence. And only this will be the subject of supplementary decisions that will ensure their status even from the time of their deletion until they have otherwise obtained it. For all others, the law will be adopted, explained, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's request to supplement the decisions of those decisions which have been recognised or recognised by the Constitutional Court as being contrary to the provision of conditions which must be met in order to obtain the right to status. It was also undeniably found that public finances were not at risk. It was clear that there was no direct link between the status and compensation decisions. It was clearly stated that compensation would have to be found directly in the Court of Justice in specific cases. It was made clear how many legal elements of damage, causation, the issue of obsolescence and the like must be identified in each particular case before the compensation can be recognised. It was clear that these judicial procedures would run for a while before they were legally binding. Not to mention that the ideas that Mr Tanko has said about compensation are such that if our wickedness were the same as yours, and we would calculate it, then that would only mean the intimidation of people, what concrete proposals on the obligations that the country might have to erase would really mean. I think that it has also been sufficiently clear that decisions are made on the basis of individual decisions and that it is not your conclusion that these decisions are being issued and will be issued at any time. It was clearly demonstrated that your reference to the constitutional profession was not correct, as you referred to the constitutional profession at the time before the supplementary constitutional decisions were issued and before it was clearly stated that it was necessary to implement the 8th point, not only in the decision which it adopted, but in the later ones which constituted a requirement for consistent implementation. And something else that seems very important to me, and I hope that it will also impress our common knowledge. This is the fact that the decision to wipe out the large number of persons who lived in Slovenia as citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ was made consciously and that it was also carried out systematically. I have with me, and I will quote a letter already referred to by the Minister, dated 27 February 1992, one day after the application of Article 81 of the Foreign Affairs Act, issued by the Ministry of the Interior, signed by the Director of the Administration of Administrative and Administrative Affairs, Under-Secretary Slavko Fatelek. It was stated in this letter that there are a number of issues and a number of problems relating to the implementation of the law on foreigners and that the Ministry therefore warns all relevant administrative authorities that the instruments they have deleted, even if they are issued by the competent authorities in our country and are still valid, because of the changed status of these persons, are not applicable to them. If this means anything other than tearing or punching, then I don't know how anyone understands such a clear instruction issued by the Ministry responsible. It has been said that these people no longer have documents, even applicable to them, and thus have become lawless and have had to go to the Calvary of recognition of a new temporary residence or permanent residence through all the procedures that have already been described today. And another such letter, which clearly indicated the relationship, was issued. 6. 1992 from the Minister of the Interior, who said the shortest of all, that the law on citizenship and the law on foreigners, which allowed for the free decision on the status of these persons, were realized, and therefore we believe that the rights acquired should be disregarded in further proceedings. For these people it was necessary to take away the rights acquired, this is also their status in Slovenia, and to reintroduce a request for status, which was sometimes possible and not possible many times. I so hope and believe that in today's debate, you too, the interpellations, have come to realize that this interpretation was an empty shot and you may consider withdrawing your request for a vote on the non-trust of the Minister. That would be the wisest decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? [[Yeah.]] Please, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u258	The motioner has his last word, and I'm asking you to stick to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u259	If you have time at your disposal, you can have the last word. I'm sure. They both have time at their disposal, regardless of who's first, who's last. Like they're going to sort each other out. You want to have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u260	Mr President, I ask you to work in accordance with the agenda for the meeting, after which he will receive the word of the Government and then the proposer shall have the last word. This, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u261	Mr. Grimes, do you want a word or don't you want a word? Neither the Government nor the proposer are written in order because they can contact each other at any time during the discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u262	Mr President, I strongly object to your manipulation and I tell you the plan prepared by your service, in which it is very clear that the last one is the Government, you allowed it 110 minutes, and then the last one you gave him is almost half the time. As a result, I have only a few minutes left and I ask you to at least allow me, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to complete this story as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u263	Whenever you wanted, you got your word. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it stated that the applicant has the last word. The Government and the proposer are listed at the end, because they can always intervene in full time whenever they want. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. In this mandate, you are even applying some new practice at this meeting, which has not yet been implemented in the National Assembly. If we are all Members and also the Editors, the Applicant, the response to the interpretation, the presentation of the parliamentary positions and then all the debates took place on the schedule that we have made, then I propose or demand that you also finish the debate as described in the script. There's no need, and it's not business to change the script during the session. We have announced the time, the College of what we have proposed did not allow us by voting to have sufficient discussions with the proposer, you have already abused your power there in the College, and I propose that we conclude this debate now. The government now has a word, as it is on schedule, and finally, if so decided, the proposaler is the final word. That's how it's always been with all the interpretations, I can get you all the copies, I can get you the services to prepare them, because you still have them all around you, and there's no need for this moment to change anything. And it is time for us to start working as usual in this National Assembly in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u265	Mr Tanko, as I do, you know well that the Government and the proposer have the possibility of intervention throughout the debate and that they can finally discuss as long as they have one or the other time. Since, at this point, Mr. Proposer does not wish to discuss [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u266	Mr President, if this is the problem [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u267	Do you want to procedurally or discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u268	I have already informed you that I want the word and I ask you to comply with the legal order in force in the National Assembly. I hope this isn't too much of a coalition shock for you today. The legal order of this country, which includes, on the one hand, the Rules of Procedure and, on the other hand, the legal practice of this Parliament, also applies to you, including to the current coalition. You're not an avant-garde who can do what anyone likes. Please act accordingly and allow me to discuss the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u269	Dear Mr Grimes! Since you said you would like to discuss this after the Government or the Minister has discussed it, I wanted to tell you, but you didn't have to wait three seconds to jump in and break the rules of procedure, because you didn't define yourself as a procedural speaker or as a substantive speaker. Please respect the rules, you've been in this congregation for some time. Minister Katarina Kresal has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. It would take a little while, but I would demand that I have a word with Mr Grimes. What hurts when you listen to all this impatience, all this anger, all this hate I have enough time, I can wait. [[...]] Even under the old penal code, the defendant could have had his last word when regulating the process of the old Yugoslav Paradise. Well, of course, with a new country, a new policy is coming up with new rules. However, I am pleased to have had the opportunity before the National Assembly to present the facts and arguments of the interpretation. I'm talking about facts and arguments, of course, I'm not talking about fantasies, stories, fairy tales, scaring people with damages, with aggressors, with a self-serving war. You know what it's like, fear is inside the stalls, but there's nothing about it. With these damages, which have been spinning constantly as a red thread in front of the National Assembly today, it is the same: there are hollows inside, but there is nothing around. But it's sad because the crisis is true and people are really bad living and they're really scared and it's true, it's gonna get worse. That this fear and this bad will are used to shape anger, that hatred of another group of people who have done nothing wrong, which this country has done to it, is indeed a democratic policy. I hope I never see her like that again. You're saying we're wasting our time with this interpolation so we can talk about other things. I'd love to talk about other things, but you're not interested. It's not the position that put the interpolation on me, you did, even though you say it's a big theme. True, the crisis is not only an economic crisis, but also a crisis of values. You could say something about that, too. The Ministry of the Interior does not only deal with the project deleted. With other equals, with the same energy, with the same knowledge, with the same teamwork. Economic crime, corruption, we have often heard it from your mouth today, as if it were forgotten today and in the last four years it was supposed to be on the pedestal. In fact, the picture is quite different. In the past four years, there has been no serious step forward to deal with this problem seriously. We watched a lot of things on TV, but there were no real effects. Criminalists did not have the basic working conditions: databases, computers; ordinary police had no basic working conditions, ranging from gloves to protective vests. These are also the problems that we opened up as soon as I entered the Ministry of the Interior. And we're saving them. And we educate criminals and connect them with other profiles and organize their work so that they can really independently and professionally prosecute corruption, prosecute economic crime. And we're doing a really important project that you don't even want to hear about. For the past 15 years, there has been no such reorganisation of the criminal police as is now taking place. We are going towards the establishment of a special national investigative bureau. Why? In order to be truly effective and Europeanly comparable and professionally able to deal with the worst forms of crime of this kind that have really spread in recent years. By the end of the year, not after four years, or in the second term, the first form will be in operation by the end of the year. And this will be a very effective mechanism. I have a feeling some people are already afraid of him. Well, not just that. In the Ministry of the Interior, no one has ever set a priority for domestic violence. Well, look at the size of it. One of the first things I ran into at the Ministry was that. Remember Ormož. What can be done there? You find that the police have done everything they can, in accordance with their organisation, in accordance with the law, and that they are still mortal victims in the end. And you think, "So what have they been doing so far?Oh, my God! Why hasn't anyone checked or done anything else that can be improved? Is there anything that can be perfected?" Yes, it is now one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior. And we are working with NGOs, working with external experts, preparing new measures. Finally, we have also taken action to reorganise the police at both regional and local level. To solve the problems that people remind us of every day - too few police officers on the road, too little attention for personal hardships. All of this should have been done much earlier. And I wonder why it wasn't priorities before. Now it's a priority. I hope you'll ever ask about it. And I hope that someone will also report to the Ministry of the Interior. Maybe Mr. Gorenak, you're pretty domestic there. My door is open, I've already told you in the opening statement, here I specifically invite you to come and meet with our professional services, we'll tell you everything. Open, transparent. Of course, it's about deleted because it's a major topic today, and it's about some other matter, if you're interested. We will open files for you, of course, in accordance with the protection of personal data, we will explain to you how we have come to this, even what coffee we will make for my expenses. We try to be open and try to do good. Unfortunately, you don't care about that side because it's getting louder.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u271	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u272	I'm not going to answer any more of those ridiculous designs, the accusations, the half-truths, the lies that I've been listening to today for, like, 14 hours, I think. There were too many of them, and it makes absolutely no sense. I think those who wanted to hear it heard it and could understand it. Those interested in the problem of the deleted received sufficient relevant information. Enough arguments to know what's really going on. And it is one of the most massive violations of the Constitution in the time of Slovenia. Someone earlier misquoted me that this was the worst violation of human rights - no, the most massive violation of the Constitution was my true statement. Once again, I would like to invite you, on the basis of what has been heard in this Chamber today, to consider this information in order to take into account what you may have previously closed your ears. If you are honest, if you are open, if you think with your heart and head and conscience, then there is no doubt about what this vote must be. Not just that 51% and something that the ruling coalition has. If you really care about the rule of law, if you really are a democratic party, if human rights are not just on your paper, then this vote will be much more in my favor. It would be nice, it would be fine, it would be legal. Then tomorrow we won't say it was a first-April interpolation. Respect for the rule of law and human rights should not be the subject of such a heated debate, such misunderstandings, such inactions as we have heard today. But I believe we're a young country and we're still looking for those fields where they can fight and where they can't. But here comes a new generation of politicians who look differently, who are really driving a new policy. And you will not be burdened with all these traumas that needlessly burden you yourself. I am sure that the future generations will find it completely incomprehensible how this is possible, because we are a legal, democratic country, one of the most successful new members of the European Union, they have spoken. [[The ad in the hall.]] Do you have any comment? Well, yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u273	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u274	This action, delete -- wait a minute, delete, today I heard some interesting comments that it wasn't even deleted, that they were moved or moved, something like that. Even worse, I have here a certificate from the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, where a gentleman, with his name and surname, is told that he was officially removed from the register of permanent population. It's worse than being erased, eliminated. And that's why it's the story of exclusion, of division, of deprivation of rights. And you're even defending her, I can't believe it. Some even said that the late speakers admitted that some injustices had taken place. But probably because they were the wrongs of those illiterates, it probably doesn't count, then it's not a priority, then it's not human rights, then it's something Minister Kresalov does there. Slovenia already has one major trauma, it hasn't closed yet, which is wrong not to get the wrong idea, post-war killings. And for ever they marked the end of the liberation war, the time of World War II, which was certainly one of the bright things of this nation. And like they left you a black mark on our history, this erasure leaves a black mark. And if we've learned anything from history, it's that we have to erase this black stain as soon as possible. If we don't get him, he'll be out for another 50 years. And those generations after us who have no connection with us, nor with what we are doing today, will beat each other in the head and fight in each other's parliaments, because we were not capable of so much dignity, so much legal thought, so much democracy that we could close this problem together. Today in this hall there were many outbursts of patriotism, but this was unfortunately the kind of patriotism that divided the inhabitants of Slovenia into two categories: first-class and second-class. The first class is those who go to human rights and all the rest in accordance with the Constitution, while the second class is those who do not have a judicial decision, or a constitutional decision, or a constitution, or comments, or anything legal on paper written, allowing them to have human rights, to invoke human rights and to have their human rights regulated by the State, if it has already violated them. Such a separation policy had different names at different times and in different environments. But all policies based on separation, whether religious, racial, ethical, social, or any other, are faced with failure and moral condemnation as soon as possible. That is why I will end with the thought of Clarence Darrow, a well-known American civil rights fighter: True patriotism hates injustice in its own country more than anywhere else in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Proposer? The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u276	After some recent statements, I must say that I would like to believe that everything that is going on is really just april. But it's not. This topic is still quite serious and real and all those who used the power of the coalition to give it to you on this day, you already knew why you did it. I myself believed that this was just a simple baliness that was so typical of the transition left when, when there were no arguments, it was a disqualification of the opponent, a disqualification of his arguments, in some way trying to embellish the whole matter and that you chose this date. But now that I've heard these things from your side, I'm sure you've chosen this for the sake of symbolism, that you'll have an excuse someday, when the consequences of your actions will be on the table, and when your children and everyone you know will ask you how it's possible to say, "Oh, you know, there was actually a 1. April." When you apologize for what you're saying here today. What is extremely significant was the argumented debate on our part, and on the other hand sometimes so much hate speech that it was already fun. For a moment I will also draw my attention to one very entertaining statement, the term 'illegal deletion' was used and then upgraded by the fact that it is an act of xenophobic, right-wing, nationalist policy or something. Who really did this? The Interior Minister was Mr Igor Bavcar, LDS' long-standing vice-president, that is to say the LDS, which has now spread so well and its substantive successor is indeed, its formal successor is LDS, and the flower has picked up the current SD. And now you decide for yourself who the immediate heir to xenophobic, right-wing, nationalist politics and everything else you've added. But as it is said, unfortunately this subject is too serious to be dealt with only in this way. Because the Minister used the expression that it was illegal to delete it. The deletion was not illegal, it was very offensive and unfair to all the employees of the administrative authorities who once acted in accordance with the then applicable legislation of the State of Slovenia, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court 10 years ago, in fact not even annulled, but abolished, and put us in a position to face this problem today. A number of new arguments have been drawn up in this debate, some of which are at least personal to me if they are put in the right light. Look at this case. Someone who has survived in a concentration camp during World War II for a year, but you know how much suffering this has been, according to the legislation you have adopted, is entitled to some good EUR 1000 compensation and some symbolic rent of one euro for each month of such suffering. However, someone who was transferred from one list to another, and even publicly said that he knew that he should have settled the status, but that it did not seem appropriate to him and that he was also addressing all Slovenians and Slovenians with non-culturals, is entitled to EUR 55,000. That is the amount of EUR 17,300, with interest back there until 1996 and 1997. And that's equality before the law for you. The fact that it is even more frightening for me is that the value of human life in this law is €800, and the fourfold of that amount is the equivalent of €3,200 for a fallen war in Slovenia. Someone who sacrificed the most he had for this country is worth 3,200 euros to this country. The one who then calculated and compared all loyal ones with the uncultured is worth €55,000 for this country. Let us ask ourselves what kind of country we live in. And that's proof of something. It's a lot more today than anyone wanted to show up here. It is a fundamental issue of values, it is a fundamental issue of the attitude towards Slovenian independence, which is also with such claims, what an immense injustice, what an immeasurable violation of human rights, which has been systematic, as you gentlemen from the SD today claim, should have done at the time of the independence of the State of Slovenia. It is a direct discredit of Slovenian independence, to undermine the foundations on which this country is founded. And, of course, it's money. No matter what you all keep saying, yes, because that compensation is not legal, it has been awarded at the first stage. That's true, but the one who was entitled to it said he was going to complain because it was too small for him three times if I may remind you. And he expects an obvious sum that will exceed 100,000 euros. You need to know that your conduct, carried out specifically by your Minister, who also assumes objective and political responsibility, already entails costs, specific costs that are being incurred at this moment. These are firstly the costs of issuing decisions, all you are doing at this time, then the costs of lawsuits in courts, where a lot of this will certainly end. Also those costs that lawyers will impose on their services. I would remind you that you have relieved yourself of this legal rate, which will increase, certainly up and at the same time, an official bill has already been issued which will require the hiring of a lawyer even for those instances, including the Constitutional Court, where this has not yet been necessary. It is obvious here that it works in favour of certain narrow groups, and in doing so the general interest and values of Slovenian independence are unfortunately forgotten. And to continue, the next pressure - we have not yet come to compensation the next cost will be the issue of social transfers. In addition, let me mention the fact that in some other republics the amount of JLA officers' pensions is five times lower than in Slovenia. Do you imagine what it means to pay back from this title alone, on the basis of some reckless decisions made. And in the end, there's the matter of compensation itself. There's a lot of gibberish going on all the time you've been talking, and you haven't mentioned any JLA officers. I've told you before. Let the Minister state on her own that there will then be no evidence that we have violated any personal rights, who is at the head of the so-called deleted society, who is at the top of this society and what these people have done, for example, during the war for the independence of Slovenia, specifically at the Holmec border crossing, and you will quickly find some JLA officer even among the so-called deleted. You can also look at those who are already suing the state of Slovenia for the highest sums of money. For, at least you know, 250,000 euros, 480,000 euros, even 980.000 euros, to the extent that the record holds the highest level, and then there will be no such diversion, which you will then upgrade when you say, because the issue of permanent residence is not related to the issue of citizenship and then to the electorate and electorate. Please, you all know that this legislation, which is in force in Slovenia, makes it a condition for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u277	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u278	It's a permanent residence. [[...]] And then, when someone has citizenship, of course, they also have passive and active electoral rights and, above all, I warn, it's a confrontation of arguments and a confrontation of values. If some in the National Assembly have said directly from a party chaired by Mrs Minister that it seems strange to them that calculations are made to someone, that there is some ground that prohibits people from calculating for their own benefit, then, forgive me, none of us can agree with that. What the current minister is doing is unfair to all who have regulated their citizenship, to those who were once even blackmailed by their neighbours when they regulated this citizenship because they wanted to be loyal to the new state, to those who created it together and, of course, to those who paid the highest price for it and all of these are the documents for the resolution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted, you've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yes, you do. I would also like to point out that the Minister may also apply with a raise of hands when applying for the time-sharing debate, which is why I am asking for an application. 46 Members and Members and Minister, 47, have been notified. It's available every 26 seconds. I think it makes sense to conclude that these debates, these time-sharings and debates, are not done because this is simply too little time. Do we agree with that? Then I conclude the debate on interpolation and move on to the vote. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly that Mr Katarino Kresal, Minister of the Interior, be dismissed after the discussion on the interpretation. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrust to the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal." In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Does anyone want an explanation of the vote on behalf of the members of the groups? I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We've had a lot of time to think and talk. Essential for the Slovenian National Party is only one thing, we tried to tell you, you did not understand. Now I don't know if you want to go watch some comedy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u281	Please, colleagues and colleagues, peace in the hall. Mr. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u282	Cut yourself some slack. You're a messenger. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u283	Dear colleague Barovic, please explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u284	I was gonna give it to you, and they started cutting me off.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u285	There's no controversy with the others, and I'll take care of the order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u286	Look at them!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u287	I'm looking at them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u288	How You Care [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u289	Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u290	The legislative branch of power is the first branch of government in this country. Those of you who have come, read the Constitution and see its meaning. And no decision of the Constitutional Court can prejudge the decision of the National Assembly. We have so much respect for each other at least in the Slovenian National Party. When we have a constitutional law and when the National Assembly adopts this constitutional law, then we will be very pleased to take the action of the Minister of the Ministry responsible at the Slovenian National Party, but otherwise not. We're not gonna let that happen. Today we heard quite a few words that were very cruel. A little while ago, I listened attentively to the distinguished Madam Secretary, she said "unlettered cleaners." Madam Minister, this has ruined everything you've built in the day [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u291	Dear colleague Barovic, the Minister is no longer in a position to answer, and please, if you do not object to the explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u292	Our view is that, unfortunately, many cleaners are a university-educated lady, who no one cares about. Unfortunately, on April 1st, some 100 Slovenes and Slovenes lost their jobs, which no one cares about. And we've spent almost 18 hours on stupid things that have been happening in the words of the Minister for 17 years. Who was in power for 12 years? We don't. And neither is SDS. You were 12 years old. And now you're not gonna solve it. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support interpretation for content because you pay attention to marginal groups, but not to those who need it. We will not tolerate such duplicity in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Let me say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we will support the interpolation and at the same time find out the following. From 300,000 we've come to 150, 80 and finally 30,000 in ten years. The problem was first produced by civil law associations, in particular by Ms Neve Miklavčič Predan, Judge Krivica. At the same time, let me draw particular attention to what our people need to know, and this is that Mr Todorovič did not want Slovenian citizenship, as he said, a request for Slovenian citizenship would be a non-civilisation act. At the same time, it is noted that, at first stage, he has already received an award of EUR 17 000, with interest in a little over 50, because he was disgraced to apply for non-civilisation reasons. Further, it must be said that we have never been in Slovenia, and I hope not at this time, destroying the documents in the way they are displayed in the public and which you emphasize, "wasted", "destroyed", "deprecated", this does not exist, "repeated" existed, it is epp. Further, it must be said that in no case can we agree with those you compared with Germany, Austria and so on, the phenomenon is not comparable. Our so-called eraseds also had the opportunity to stay in Slovenia and to arrange for themselves the status of a foreigner, as our citizens have in Austria or Germany. But that's not what they wanted. So it's not a comparable matter. Furthermore, it must be said that we do not agree with all those who say that the absoluteness of a constitutional decision is being challenged by the former constitutional judges themselves, including the composition of the Constitutional Court, but I have quoted the individual judges who think and say so this morning. The Constitutional Court is certainly the National Assembly with the majority and the people. The following must also be said, and this is the last message to be deleted by no one on this side of the hall due to false impressions and false messages on the other hand, does not refuse to regulate the status deleted, nor does it deny any compensation. This is a clear message to the deleted. But only those who were caused by any injustices that you mentioned by names and surnames in procedures but by constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u295	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I heard some important words a few seconds ago. Maybe this is about a fair sports game that means a handshake to a team that was better, convincing, and above all had the right, the truth, the constitution and the laws on its side. And that's all the story was about. For nothing else. If we close a 17-year-old trauma, then we have every opportunity to close a story that is a few decades older. This will certainly be beneficial because of old offenses, old divisions, and above all, it will be most beneficial for those who come after us. The Liberal Democracy Interpellation Club does not support it, but thanks all for the correct debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u297	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u298	I will vote in favour of the interpolation because the conduct of the Government and Minister Katarina Kresal is completely irresponsible. At a time when we are facing an increase in the type of unemployed in the employment institution, when we are facing a crisis caused by the Government and deepened by its slow and unprofessional behaviour, the failure to respond to the challenges posed by the global processes to the Republic of Slovenia, all things relating to the so-called deleted are being carried out in such a way as to result in extremely high costs and, in the final stage, possible compensation. This, of course, means in practice less money for education, less money for health care, less money for pensioners, less money for kindergartens, less money for the quality of life of all citizens and citizens. This is also what Mr Matevž Krivic announced years ago that the costs and compensation provided for in this title will be so high that they will have to be allocated among several budgets and that only in this way will they be able to be paid at all. And those who today deny that these costs are already coming are the costs of issuing decisions, costs of procedures, costs of courts, costs of social transfers and of course compensation. I hope that when the consequences of your irresponsible behavior are here, you will pay all these costs from your own pocket. Just as you drive these things yourself, you take full responsibility for them. On our part, the possibility of agreement in constitutional law was offered. When this option has been rejected you also take responsibility and be fair to citizens and citizens and therefore take on the costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I will vote against interpolation because it has been erased and because injustice needs to be corrected. Today, though, I heard during the debate when I was still deciding how I would vote that there was no erasure. But if there was no deletion, then there was no Srebrenica, there was no Jasenovac, there was no Mathaus, there was no Holocaust, there was no actually us. We're probably living in the Matrix, and we could also find someone here who plays Agent Smith, and we haven't identified Morpheus Neot. But since I don't think it's true that we're not, it's been erased, so I won't support the interpolation and as Morphius would say, "free your mind."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll vote against it, too. Why? Because you've overstepped yourself with this interpretation because it's not about us and it's about us. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u303	Dear colleague, there is no controversy with the opposite group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u304	For this is the rule of law, and there can be no winner in this story other than the rule of law. [[...]] And you can't win if you put in 100 more of these interpretations. And that doesn't mean less money for education, it doesn't mean less money for social security, it doesn't mean less money for health, it's a clean lie. And in the coming months, when you will be filled with the mouth of the rule of law again, I explain my voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u305	And you're polarizing at the same time. Please limit yourself to explanations of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u306	I wonder what you'll be talking about in the next two months, when you'll be talking about the rule of law, and how appropriate it is now at this hour to say, "Go to bed." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. I'm going to vote myself in favour of interpolation for maybe a few strange reasons. I think that today we have done enough advertising for the Minister to raise her rating, perhaps someday she will be able to run even for the president of the country, I think she will be cheaper than the current president of the country, 96,000 euros for the flight to Sarajevo is definitely much more expensive than 6,000 euros to Milan in shopping and so on. Interpellation yes, and we'll see what the future holds. I may feel a little sorry for the Minister, from whose fund the funds will go, but now he's smiling when he'll be sad the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u309	Thank you very much, dear colleague Ziherl. The secretary couldn't answer to you. And that wasn't right and fair and according to the rules of this house. Thank you. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u310	Thank you. I will also support the interpolation, but today there has been some common knowledge, so I think it is an extremely heterogeneous group of so-called eraseds. Some of you cited cases where there really was a tragedy when they wanted to resolve their status in compliance with the Slovenian legal order, as the law had commanded, but could not. I myself mentioned the case when a person and his family fled Slovenia, did nothing about it, fled because they succumbed to the hate propaganda of JLA. Others again cited cases where some arrogantly refused to respect the Slovenian legal order or even left Slovenia with the threat of returning as winners. Maybe they'll come back as winners, and then we'll find out we won the battle and we lost the war. Lost with political means, not with weapons. But the joke's on the side. The problem is, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u311	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u312	that we do not respect this constitution, which states that such heterogeneous groups cannot be resolved by a model approach to a very short decision of the Constitutional Court. [[...]] To require a law to process all variants, to specify and resolve this complication. The irony is also, as Dr Bohinc himself said in 2004, the Constitutional Court does not even order, does not require that these decisions be issued to those who have already acquired Slovenian citizenship. It is also a sign of some willpower that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I don't understand why, with some pattern approach, it's all in the order of such ratings to be allowed. [[...]] That's why I'm going to vote in favour of interpellation, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u314	Dear Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the interpolation and, of course, I must read what Dr Jerovšek wrote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u315	Dr. Jerovšek doesn't explain his voice. That's what you need to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u316	I am explaining the voice, but with what Dr Jerovšek wrote, "that the Constitutional Court has made a deletion, more illegal and illegal manoeuvres were needed. First, to determine the non-constitutionality of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is part of the Constitutional Law and the Constitutional Court's judgment, to silence the fact that, under the Foreign Act under Article 13 of the Constitutional Law, they were obliged to file an application before the expiry of the term under Article 81 and to regulate one of the status offered, to silence the constitutional possibility provided for in Article 157 of the Constitution, which provides: "If no other judicial protection is provided, the competent court shall also rule in a legal dispute on the legality of individual acts and acts which prejudice the constitutional rights of the individual." All this was done by the Constitutional Court to vote on this constitutional decision. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Remember that almost all companies were destroyed during the transition in Maribor. Who defended those criminals who destroyed all the companies in the Maribor economy? Lawyers who are huge rich today. Don't ask me who those lawyers are. Slovenians and Slovenians know these people, they know who they are, they know who they are. And that's the key problem. Has anyone in the Constitutional Court then considered adopting a constitutional decision to protect thousands of workers who have lost their jobs? Nobody. And to this day, no one has answered, because lawyers have defended criminals today who are multimillionaires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u318	Dear President, distinguished ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I deeply and sincerely respect Slovenia's independence and all those who have contributed to its success because this Slovenian independence has brought, at least, respect for human rights. And that was the basic basis for why this nation decided to have its own country, in which it could live as it wanted. However, I do not respect the labelling of people according to personal circumstances. I'm particularly sensitive about age labelling. I'm sure the statements "disturb me to today on these matters," meant to be deleted, "the most known are those who have just crawled out of the sandstone when some of us were walking around the streets with guns." I'm sure such statements do not belong to the National Assembly. It was me, for example, and the secretary we played in the sandstones in the early 1980s. At that time, hunters and police were allowed to walk through Slovenia with weapons, if they had manoeuvres or not. I regret the clumsyly expressed statement and, above all, the deliberate misinterpreted and interpreted statement: I despise the manipulation of facts and people, which is why I cannot support this interpretation. But I have mercy on those who will do it anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Members and Members shall have the right to do so. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u320	The former Minister of Social Democrats for Home Affairs, Dr Rado Bohinc, said in connection with the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on the so-called deleted ones, that is, what you are doing now, in autumn 2003: "It is necessary to pass a law in order to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is not precisely those who claim that administrative decisions are permitted to be issued directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court." With regard to the implementation of the 8th point of the 2003 Constitutional Court decision, the nine supreme constitutional lawyers stated: "It does not seem constitutionally correct that the decision would constitute a direct basis for the issue of administrative decisions, as it is also not consistent with the principle of the division of power referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution. The 8th point is also not procedurally feasible because, for the reasons stated above, this is necessary, the National Assembly must also regulate the enforcement of the 8th point in the law." I hear some of these have changed their minds. However, whether these gentlemen change their minds or not, the Constitution remains the same, then and today, no comment or change of written opinion can change it. The Constitution lays down, in Articles 160 and 161, the powers of the Constitutional Court. It is not to be seen that the Constitutional Court would also have legislative powers. The Constitution says, "the individual act and actions of the public authorities must be based on law or legal regulation". There is no law under which decisions would be issued to so-called deleted persons. I expected the Minister to understand that in the absence of respect for the rule of law, there was a need for a derogation. There's still time. Otherwise, I will vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister, although I know that the ruling coalition will act unintentionally, it will also protect the Minister and the human rights interest in this case, as in many others, rather than respect the constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u322	Thank you, President. I will vote against this interpolation because this interpolation is so unrealistic and so poorly reasoned that it does not actually convince Grims' colleagues. They're probably in solidarity with him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u323	My friend Franco [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u324	Yeah, yeah. I'm on the ground. Since we're still April 1st, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u325	Reasons should be given, not reasoned, not reasoned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u326	Since we are still on April 1st, I will vote against even more confidently because on April 1st 2005, this same gentleman put his law on RTV on the table. On April 1, 2007, the director of Cinematheque closed the cinema and left the people at the door, erased them. Please! Let's stop this farce! I will vote "against".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u327	Thank you very much. You didn't sign up, Mr. Jerovšek. I'd like to ask everyone who wants to explain their vote to sign up for this round of events to bring this meeting to a close at some point in time. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u328	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I will vote against interpolation, of course, because I was also the victim of the previous interpolation five years ago. The 8th point against former Minister Bohinc was addressed to me personally as editors of the then internal ministry magazine, where I described everything we talked about today. And that's why I'm telling you that five years is enough to be able to come to terms with the mistake at the time and that we can only be happy that we have such a minister today, who has made a more decisive decision on the whole matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u330	Thank you very much. It would be much easier for me if the Secretary of State to step down and save a lot of money. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u331	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u332	Slovenia. [[...]] She did not convince me with her answers, as did her fellow opposition colleagues, because the fact that decisions are made without constitutional law has clearly written down many respectable constitutional experts here. Let me list Mr Pirnat, Mr Kavčič, Mr Bučar, and I could also list them. It means that these are the ones who know for sure how this problem should be solved. Exactly as far as the statements are concerned, there will be no compensation. Of course, there will be compensation, just not at this moment, the scenario of how this is supposed to take place, written to you all nicely by Matevž Krivic. And it is only a matter of time before this process continues. Not fooling the public, not fooling people! The script is made, follow the first step well, the next step will follow, so I am sure the damage to Slovenia will only follow. So, Minister, let's really listen to these appeals and not do the irreparable damage that all taxpayers will pay in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u334	Thank you very much. I will vote against the interpretation against Minister Kresalova because I am convinced that she is unjustifiable, especially after the last 15 hours of the debate, that there is in fact no argument to convince this high house to vote in favour of the interpretation. I will also vote against the interpretation because today's arguments were not predominant, but merely personal attacks on the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u336	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the interpolation because today we have heard a parade of intolerance of hate speech, insult and humiliation of Slovenian independence, Slovenian independents, police officers who were declared cowboys from the Wild West, with revolvers, and because it has been said that ethnic cleansing has taken place. It's the plague of other nations. The Minister didn't stand in the way of this, maybe it wasn't her fault, maybe the consortium of lawyers and lawyers, who wrote the answers she read this afternoon, so he wrote:but the Minister must answer himself in the light of this. More. Madam Minister has even found with an adulation that he was not in Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u337	Dear Mr Jerovšek, there is no way to argue with the Minister, he cannot answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u338	which is why I have to vote as I vote. [[...]] And it agrees with the thesis that in Slovenia there are crimes, but there are no criminals and there are no culprits. See, when Minister Bohinc was on 8 January 2003, when he began issuing decisions on Slovenian Bistrica, the territorialists strongly resented him because he had issued decisions. They said those who were seen from the barracks through the guns were saying, "The blood will flow, we'll kill you." To align such people with Slovenian territorialists, with Slovenian soldiers, these are patriots. The minister was making fun of her, and she was also using false patriotism to insult the invaders, here, on our side. This is unacceptable for a minister, such a humiliation to his own country, to independence. They're all guilty, the only ones. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But those who were guilty also must be given all things, and all things must be forgiven. [[...]] We can forgive them, but we can't forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u340	Respectable. I suggest we stop this burka. There are quite a few of us mayors here who have to be at work tomorrow at 7 a.m. and more responsible than talking like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u341	Dear colleague Brulc [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u342	I'll be fine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u343	We're not interested in the mayor's problems right now. The voice has to be explained. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u344	I'll vote "against" which is normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-01-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u345	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Peace in the hall. [[..]] Please, for a moment of concentration, the result has to be announced. May I have a moment of concentration, please? There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, has not been voted in confidence. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the fourth session of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, please remove all materials from the Chamber for the preparation of the Hall for tomorrow's visit to the students of the Faculty of Law. Thank you very much and very much.
