ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Jakob Preseknik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're coming to 2. Agenda item - On the defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 under the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members! The law on the implementation of the budget is a condition that the budget or the balance of the budget adopted yesterday is also implemented. The law foresees three necessary amendments, two of which relate to the implementation of the common agricultural policy, allowing, for the first time, to assume the obligation to list agricultural holdings already this year, while only payment in view of the course of the entire operation will be current in the following year and will also be planned in the following year. The second amendment also concerns the common agricultural policy, namely the recovery of unpaid obligations. We are reducing or limiting the amount under which we will not work these recoverys, because otherwise the costs would be higher and at the same time we would have fallen under a special regime, under which the relationship between the European budget and the Slovenian budget would be stricter. We therefore believe that this change is necessary. However, the third amendment, which is outlined in the law, refers to the extent of the debt that is adjusted to the new amount of the budget balance. The government proposes that you adopt amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 7th meeting, on 14. 7. Considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the usable system and the technical and legislative aspects of it. Before the law is published in the Official Journal, only an appropriate editorial correction of the title shall be announced in view of the fact that only one amendment has been tabled. In the legislative proposal, the SDS Group tabled a new Article on 7.7. of the amendment, i.e. Article 4 or Article 14.7. The meeting was also attended by the Minister responsible for Finance, the representative of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Supervision, which considered the draft law to be an interested working body. It follows from the explanation of the legal proposal that, due to the unpredictable consequences of the global financial crisis, the Government has set out a proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, in order to avoid disagreement between the two documents, it is therefore necessary to adapt the law of review. In the context of the debate, the representative of the proposed amendment, the SDS Group, shall be referred to Article 4 or 4a, which shall, irrespective of the provision of Article 22 of this Law, be subject to a 30-day payment period for investment expenditure and investment transfers payable under individual circumstances during the duration of the financial crisis, by 31 December of the financial crisis. 12. 2010, the Committee took note of the deletion of the text of the amendment to Article 4, in particular point 3, since it was 14. 7. The proposal for an amendment for a new Article 4a, the same candidates, is contained in the proposed new Article. In doing so, the Committee voted, pursuant to Rule 128 of its Rules of Procedure, on individual articles of the legislative proposal and adopted them. At the time of consideration of the amended amendment by the SDS Group to amend Article 4 together with the substantively related amendment for the new Article 4a, the Committee did not adopt. No amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly proposes that you adopt the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Good day to you all! Last night we said A, today we have to say B. And if the budget balance was adopted last night, of course, the Budget Implementation Act should, of course, upgrade the story. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we express our full support for this and, above all, we think it is important and necessary to give a substantive welcome and recall three substantive issues, by supplementing Article 20 of the existing law, allowing preparatory actions to be carried out in order to carry out the census, where the European Community rules so provide, before the year in which all Member States are obliged to sign it. Another time. Today it has already been mentioned, namely Amendment 27a. Article that, of course, where recovery costs exceed EUR 100, recovery does not make sense. Third time. The amendment to Article 31 of the Law will, unfortunately, allow for additional debt of EUR 3.3 billion due to the budget's falling revenue. As a result of the financial economic crisis in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the amendment of the law in the area of recovery is reasonable, acceptable. Next, it seems important to tell us in a further explanation, where it is stated that Slovenia has already been punished by the obligation to return money to the Brussels budget, due to the irregularities in the implementation of procedures concerning the use of European funds in individual cases, as stated in the explanation of the law on the case of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development of 1.5 million euros. Of course, if every euro is important in these times, then we need to be careful, careful, proactive here. It should then be noted once again that all institutions involved, both ministries and agents operating procedures and calls, must also be concerned at the general level about the correctness of all procedures, so that we do not lose out on unnecessary Brussels money, which is ultimately the money of Slovenian taxpayers. In the end, it is certainly necessary to say about the debt. We have a similar view as in the explanation of the position in adopting the second budget rebalance. We warn that, while we certainly accept this debt in these crisis situations, we attach it to it because we see that there is no other way out. Of course, we firmly believe that such an increased debt should be temporary, very careful and, on the one hand, important to alleviate the social problems of those who have lost their jobs or who have been most affected by this global crisis. We think it's important to draw attention to this aspect. On the other hand, the biggest part of money must be aimed at promoting the economic activity of businesses, so that, of course, by creating exports, new added values in the coming months, everyone can hope for the heating of the Slovenian economy and I am sure that this will come. We also expect from the Government a careful, precise plan of how this debt, budgetary deficit and also public debt will be gradually sustained and moderately reduced over the coming years and, of course, come as soon as possible into the Maastricht framework and thus ensure the long-term macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Slovenia. For all of this, we will also provide unanimous and complete support at the Liberal Democracy Club, as in yesterday's rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Hello, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before me, my colleague made it very clear what was going on. Yesterday, we took the first important and necessary step to continue the work of the Government, to continue the work of the competent ministries as well as the National Assembly. Of course, the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 is also a necessary and necessary step, as this law needs to be adapted to the changes in the budget provided for by the rebalancing. Given the legal nature of the State budget, the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, as I have already said, is a direct condition for the implementation of the budget balance. The main objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget balance, and of course there are other solutions in the law. On the basis of Article 1, preparatory actions for the execution of the census before the year in which all the Member States of the European Union are required to carry out the census may also be carried out. The national legislation or law governing the implementation of the budget shall not permit the taking of commitments unless, for that purpose, spending rights are not planned on the items of the budgets adopted or the spending rights for that purpose are planned to an appropriate extent. Nevertheless, and irrespective of the above, it is already possible to assume the obligations set out in Article 20, paragraph 4, of this Act. So, in the coming year, we will have to make a census of the agricultural economies, because the country is under European law, and we are committed to it. It is also cost-effective and justified by the proposed amendment to allow for the execution of procedures and the selection of the most favourable tenderer at the right time. The law also implements, as already mentioned, an exemption to the recovery obligation, i.e. an amendment to Article 27.a. As a result of this recovery procedures for amounts not exceeding EUR 100 without interest, it is not necessary to make this possible for the European Union’s earmarked resources and the means of Slovenian participation where Community rules applying directly allow it. Based on the analysis of the data reported by the Member States, it was found that recovery costs are disproportionate to the amount of the claim if the amount to be recovered from the beneficiary in respect of each payment without interest does not exceed EUR 100. This also avoids unnecessary recovery costs for small amounts because it is irrational for such low amounts to make recovery. With regard to the amendment to Article 31, we also support the necessary debt in these times of crisis in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, of course with careful and thoughtful action in this direction, so that we can successfully survive the times of crisis together, and in the coming years we can talk and discuss in particular about successful work and economic growth. Due to all the changes made to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I warn Members of the House of Peace not to comment from the House of Speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, good morning! True, today on the table is an added or logical consequence of yesterday’s adopted rebalancing. I will not lose words about the less important articles of the Budget Implementation Act, but I will stay a little at two points. The first point is the enormous increase in the debt that follows from this law on the implementation of the budget. From around €2 billion 200, the government's commitment to the National Assembly is proposed to confirm it, increasing it by 50% to €3.3 billion. It is an additional 500 Euros of debt for all inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, so that only this year debt rises from a good EUR 1,100 per capita to a good EUR 1500 per capita. Therefore, all Slovenians will be in charge of this law and will have to contribute EUR 1500 in the coming years or in the coming decades because the state is in debt. And why is the state in charge? If the state were in charge of development projects, for infrastructure that would provide future generations with greater added value, better access to knowledge, quality jobs, greater added value, we would not even have so many comments, because we are practically in charge of current consumption, something that will go away and will not bring added value and development momentum, we are extremely concerned in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In just one year, the share of public debt in gross domestic product will increase from 22% or 23% to a good 30% of GDP. That's an alarming increase. And what does the government in the budget documents predict? It predicts every year in the next few years, between 3% and 4%, deficits. This is said, every year ahead of time, this percentage, 3% to 4% of gross domestic product deficit, of course, will be incorporated into public debt and will certainly be increased there by the end of the government's mandate to 40% and more of the gross domestic product. Who's gonna pay for this, I ask? Are we going to put more pressure on the economy or are we going to put more pressure on our people? How will you service this public debt? The answer to these questions is not and it worries and it hurts and it is a journey, respected, to our economies, even to our people for the future. The government owes them all over the border. That is why, of course, we cannot agree with and support such an approach in the SDS. We are proposing an amendment, at least something counter-crisis, in this bill of enforcement. We propose an amendment to shorten the payment deadline to 30 days in future provisions, the country's payment deadline. This is a repeated story, and we will always repeat it when we think it is an opportunity and an opportunity. So we repeat that amendment, which has also been tabled through the amendment of the law on our part, as well as the previous procedure on the working body. We believe that reducing the country's payment deadlines to economic operators is extremely important for the liquidity of those entities. We can see that the credit crunch does not give up, that the economy is a key problem of liquidity scarcity, and therefore reducing the payment deadlines would have helped them in some way. The government is always and again concerned only with the state budget and it cares very little about the liquidity or budgets, under the terms of the economic operators with which it operates. We think that the economy is a towing horse of the development of this country, so we must go against it in times of crisis, unloading it to contribute to the treasury and thus to prosperity and to a better life for all. We are therefore setting up economic operators as well as measures to increase economic activity ahead of measures for a restrictive public financial policy at this time. We will certainly not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Alojz Posedel has the word on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We supported yesterday's proposal for a budget rebalancing in the proposed form, because we are confident that this proposal was prepared in the best possible light of macroeconomic circumstances, and therefore, as a logical consequence of yesterday's decision, we will also today endorse the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. For the sake of rationality, I will not repeat everything that has been said. I repeat only that we will really confirm this in the Group of Members. To those who today have so much anxiety and pain and fear of how sustainable public finances will be in the future, however, it would only be a message that if, at the time of need, they had so much anxiety and fear, everyone today would have fewer. As we say, in the Group of Members, we will truly support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Hello, everybody! Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that in the beginning we all have to say about the relationship between the balance and between Zipra and let me do it in this way to say that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia in itself would be an empty, rebalanced budget and would be powerless. For without each other you do not have to date and because in the DeSUS Group you would rather be powerless and powerless, we will, of course, support this bill on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by our government. Let me mention why it actually works. In fact, the basic principles, the basic principles, the provisions of the law for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are unchanged and this is essential. It is therefore essential to allow the implementation of the budget to allow the Government to react to the changed circumstances in such a way as to limit the implementation of any envisaged activities or to redistribute them and other instruments in the hands of the Government in order to ensure a balanced and ongoing implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Even so, because this is now so much more urgent in these times of crisis, we will, of course, support this in the DeSUS Group. In a small part, these changes and additions refer to the agricultural policy already mentioned, the debt policy, and we do not have too many personal prejudices, it is indeed right to warn and to worry together about how we will implement this and how we will do so in the long run, on condition, too. That maybe there are more routine things for anyone, taking in Zipper, we might have a feeling today. If we talked about this three months ago or when we talked about the first Zipper, there were more dramatic debates when we talked about the abolition or withdrawal of development plans, about prepayments and similar things that obviously have a strong impact on our lives, and that is why the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be avoided with some delay, even as nothing is important, so it is not. I would also like to mention what has already been mentioned today, namely the rejection of the amendment on the parental committee, which will certainly return in a different form and at another time, because we in the DeSUS Group believe that payment discipline will be different and that the payment deadlines will also be different. In principle, we agree with this proposal, and I am sure that we will be able to implement it over time in the National Assembly. However, with regard to debt, given the concerns already raised, it is necessary to say that we owe ourselves and if we do not owe ourselves, the negative consequences would probably be even more dramatic, both for the implementation of the budget and for the people, because we are assessing that this debt, which is largely dependent on whether we are prepared to provide an adequate social network for those affected by social, economic and other problems, and whether we are prepared to take measures, many of which we have already taken, and many will, support the economy, even if not to the extent that the economy might wish. Here we are building on some frameworks that the Government considers to be realistic, and we estimate that the Government is worthy of support in these intentions by the votes of the Dessus Group. That is why I say that we will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party have a good day! I don't know if we're still here or if we're here again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since my colleagues have already said a great deal before me about the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which is, in fact, an urgent evil that is routine in the system we have, I might say that it would be good to say, given that a number of laws are adapting to European legislation, that even when dealing with budgets or budget rebalancings, they should follow the Anglo-Saxon system, which has a system budget law, one, and then empowers the government to enforce it. We are one of the uniforms here, especially Austria and Germany, and therefore we must have two laws, which is, of course, once again, I stress, a pure routine today and an urgent evil. Since we decided yesterday in the Slovenian National Party to support the budget rebalancing, in the hope that the situation will be much better in 2010 and that the budget, which is more important, will be better, we will already have to support, for principle reasons, the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, to the government, Mrs Kamnareva, to consider that we might also turn to that part of European legislation, which, for example, is in the UK or Sweden, if we had one system law on public finances, you would have much easier work and less time to spend with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. As regards the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the additions, it is noted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set out a proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing and therefore Zipro needs to adapt to the changes in the budget. Otherwise, there would be a discrepancy between the two documents. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we objected to the proposal for a rebalancing yesterday. We have objected because we estimate that this budget is not sufficiently cost-effective, so that we will spend something that I do not have and what we do not have will actually be spent on things that, according to our judgment, are often not necessary. Yesterday I myself tried to argue this reasoning with some numbers, and despite my request that I be denied, that my thinking was wrong and that the numbers that I am saying are wrong, no one denied me, which means that what I said is really, and it turns out that in saving or reducing public spending we are not the most successful or we could be significantly more successful. We have opposed the proposal for a rebalancing, and we will therefore not support these amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As already stated in the presentations by the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, an amendment to the transitional provision was tabled this morning. You don't have this amendment on the bench yet. Is it enough to read it or wait? I can read it to you and then [[...]] So, the amendment to Article 4 I. "The title of the article shall be amended to read: 'Transitional and final provision'. II. Article 4 is amended as follows: "Despite the provision of Article 22 of the Law, during the duration of the financial crisis, the 30-day payment period on the basis of the obligation to invest expenditure paid on a case-by-case basis and the investment transfers paid on a case-by-case basis shall apply. The duration of the financial crisis is foreseen by 31. 12. 2010." In the professional services, we checked the merits of this amendment. The fact is that, pursuant to Article 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the SDS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 4 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. This amendment, as you have heard, interferes with the substantive provision of Article 22 of the basic law, which has not been amended by this amendment. The content of this amendment does not constitute a transitional provision of the amendment of the law, but it is a substantive provision which would therefore require an amendment to Article 22 of the basic law and therefore the proposed amendment is irrelevant and will not be discussed by the National Assembly. However, I will give you the opportunity to speak to the representative of the proposer if he so requests. Please, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. This is a surprise for us. Indeed, we have already had such cases that a transitional provision has been used to interfere with the content and also in individual articles. This isn't the first time. I don't know what you're afraid of dealing with this amendment. I think that the amendment is still important during the financial and economic crisis, especially for the liquidity of economic operators, and, of course, I would like to get a written position on the table of the Legal and Legal Service, that this amendment is irrelevant, because you have invoked formalities and these formalities are obviously only known to you and I do not know who has signed it and who has signed it, especially in relation to the practice already established in this Parliament. That is why, of course, I expect, Mr President, that we will also get on the table the position from which you have just said that the amendment is irrelevant and that you will not put it into debate and decision-making of Members. I think that before anyone avoids debate and consideration of this amendment, this Parliament should listen more to the economic operator than to the government and go against them in solving the problems they are facing. We waited six months or more for one of the government's so-called anti-crisis forecasts, which is the Guarantee Scheme Act. The guarantee scheme law is still disabled, despite the government's claim that it is important, good etc. The economy is practically not using it because, for the first time, it is very inoperable, and secondly, the loans are expensive because of the commissions and all the costs associated with the implementation of this law and are therefore not of interest to the economy at that time. The delaying of the opposition's good measures over and over again, which clearly includes the shortening of the payment deadline, is, of course, strengthening the bad business or making the business of economic operators worse than it would have been necessary. Finally, when we propose something again, you run into some procedural obstacles that prevent us from making a decision about it at all. Therefore, honourable President, take a look at the archive or the practice of Parliament so far, and you will find that we have already decided on such matters. However, if the practice is now changed, we would really like to have a legitimate position on the table of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. A visor. You asked us what we were afraid of. If this is about me, I'd say nothing. In fact, I would prefer to put this amendment into debate and vote, but I would therefore violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the final and transitional provisions and their treatment. I have to say that I don't know if this has been done in the past, but I know it can't be done, even if it's in the past, but I can't guarantee it, it was wrong and it can't be done in advance and it can't be done today. This is a typical material provision, which must be protected and the idea of a final and transitional provision must be protected in the law, because otherwise, in the final and transitional provisions, a new law can be written, and this is not possible, the nature of the final and transitional provisions is completely different. Therefore, as I have said, I will not put your proposal into consideration, and I conclude that no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the bill. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft law will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, within half an hour of the end of the 3rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 2.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 2A DOT OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE SCHEME OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR PHYSICAL PERSONS, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The law before you represents one of the measures to prevent and mitigate the economic crisis. The main purpose of this law is to preserve or prevent an excessive decline in the purchasing power of the population. The law focuses on three key groups for which the Government has estimated that, at this point in time, they are most at risk of access to credit in some way, which could represent their additional purchasing power or help improve their social status. It is for persons who have a fixed-term employment relationship, for persons who have lost their jobs and for young families. An amendment has also been tabled extending this group of beneficiaries to those dealing with the first housing issue, and the Government supports this proposal. The extent of the guarantees to be granted by the State for the purpose of borrowing these loans totals 350 million. The terms of the guarantee are such that in two cases, it is said, when it comes to credits of up to EUR 100 000 and mainly for the purchase of durable consumer goods or housing savings and they also have relatively good security with real estate, in these cases the state guarantee is 50%. So the banks and the state share the risk in half. While credits in the lower possible amount are said to be up to EUR 10 000, and should be given mainly to the unemployed, because the purpose of these loans is in fact slightly different, the way of recovery is also slightly different: the insurance is here only with an administrative ban or with a promise to allow their income to be seized for the payment of the instalments from this loan when the income is due. In this case, the guarantee is 100%. The implementation of this guarantee scheme is left to the Slovenian Development and Export Bank from country to bank. The supervision is on the side of the SID of the bank and the State, and recovery is to be made through the tax service and the procedures applicable to the recovery of taxes. We believe that the law will be able to make an important contribution to the realization of its purpose and, of course, to the improvement of the situation of certain groups of the population during the economic crisis, so we propose that this law be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! At its 7th meeting, on 14 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a proposal for treatment or adoption following an urgent procedure approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 31st session, on 13 July 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text from the perspective of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and technical point of view, and made specific comments to Articles 1, 5, 6, 7, 9, 14 and 17 of the draft law. At the same time, the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS Group to Articles 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 14, 17 and 18 and the SDS Group to Articles 6 and 7 of the proposal were tabled to the Act. The meeting was attended by the Minister responsible for Finance, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister responsible for finance presented a more detailed presentation of the law and proposed solutions. He stressed, inter alia, that the aim of the proposer is to enable the hiring of loans to persons in a temporary employment relationship with the open possibility of solving the housing problem, as well as to persons who have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis and who are no longer able to settle their obligations from the credits already hired or who have had to reduce their consumption below the level required for normal life due to the loss of employment and the reduction of current income. At the same time, the risks transferred from the bank to the country, with the possibility of delaying the settlement of the liability, constitute a higher level of security for the borrower. In doing so, the law provides certain safeguards within the framework of the envisaged solutions, both with regard to the purpose of the loan, its height, the utility of the insurance as well as the duration of the issue of State protection, so that the State can issue guarantees under this law by the end of 2010. This type of guarantee scheme will also be implemented in a similar manner by the SID Bank. For loans to borrowers who are employed for a fixed period or who comply with the conditions of the young family under the provisions of the National Housing Scheme Act, EUR 300 million of guarantees are allocated. For those of you who are after 1. Ten. 2008 lost a temporary job and EUR 50 million of guarantees. At the time of presentation of the opinion of that service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments of the parliamentary groups largely follow the warnings given. In doing so, the warnings to Articles 6 and 8 of the legislative proposal were re-exposed and the proposal for amendments to the Committee to Articles 8 and 12 of the draft law was given below. In the course of the discussion, part of the panellists presented the opinions of the SNS, SLS and SDS members, in conjunction with the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, expressed certain concerns when the text was presented. Thus, due to incomplete solutions without express purpose and to the delicate content, there are consequently difficulties in obtaining credits. For that reason, the adoption of such a text shall be subject to waiting. Representatives of the coalition's parliamentary groups expressed their support for the law and felt that only with the immediate adoption of the text submitted would the expected results be clear earlier. In the opinion expressed, the text under consideration, with the solutions introduced, analogous to subsidies or other facilitations and with the guarantees envisaged, brings a higher level of security, which represents an important shift in formal terms for natural persons. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments tabled. As a result, the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 6 and 7 of the legislative proposal became irrelevant. In conclusion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law on the basis of a preliminary decision. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted and is an integral part of this report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, President. A nice welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The proposal of the Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons is undoubtedly one of those measures of the Government at this time of crisis, which is directed at that population of citizens of Slovenia who certainly feel the financial and economic crisis. The measures taken so far by the Government have been mainly aimed at promoting bank credit activity and, consequently, at improving the financial and liquidity situation in companies. Much of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were also aimed at preserving the social position, employment or job preservation. Despite intensive work in the field of economic recovery and the preservation of the social situation, the number of unemployed is increasing. However, there is also an increase in the number of those who are employed only for a certain period of time, especially in job seekers, and unfortunately this is mainly the case in young people. Therefore, the decision of the Government to propose the Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons is extremely good. With the objectives envisaged by the proposer, and this is to enable the hiring or reprogramming of credit to persons who have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis, for all age groups and for those who have a fixed-term job. It also allows the rental of longer-term loans to address the housing issue of those with fixed-term employment and especially of young families. So far, this has been a category of people who, according to banking criteria, could hardly have received a longer - term loan unless they had good marriages with their parents, relatives, friends, or other husbands. I believe that this law also has a special message that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the crisis in which we are, believes in the measures it is taking to alleviate the crisis and to promote the economy, and is aware of who is most vulnerable at this time and bears the actual greatest burden of this crisis. The importance of the report of this guarantee scheme for natural persons is also that the crisis will not be forever, that normal consumption should be maintained or even encouraged within the scope of the option, of course, because it is also one way of overcoming the crisis. The country is prepared to help those most in need at this time. Let us hope that this message will also be understood by the banks and will be an important partner in lending the best possible guarantee, thus increasing consumption and, consequently, economic growth, which is also one of the measures to address the economic crisis. This guarantee scheme opens up quite a large credit potential. Compared to the economic guarantee scheme, this is probably more than €500 million. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Law on the Guarantee Scheme for Natural Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Zvonko Černač has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! If we simplify it, it is essentially a proposal intended to release a so-called credit crunch in the area of natural persons or private consumption, which is substantially smaller or substantially smaller than the economy. We know that although the guarantee scheme has been adopted, this credit crunch, except for some, has not failed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have so far supported all the measures taken by the Government in the legislative procedure aimed at easing the consequences of the economic crisis, with the exception of the Law on subsidisation of reduced working hours, since this law further contributes to reducing economic activities rather than speeding them up. Unfortunately, these measures were too little, and they were too late, which we have been warning about all along. Not only have we supported good government action, because the government's response was too slow because there were no measures, we have tabled our own proposals. At the end of April, because the Government had failed to implement the forecast of a comprehensive package of anti-crisis measures, we prepared such a package ourselves and, on its basis, introduced several laws that the National Assembly considered at its extraordinary meeting in May this month. The government opposed all measures, without exception, and on the one hand justified that much of what we proposed had already happened or was already happening. One part was considered unnecessary by the Government and one part in preparation. At that time, we warned that it would happen sooner or later that the government would start, unfortunately it would be too late, coming with measures that it had opposed them at that time. One of the laws proposed and rejected by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly in May also referred to the promotion of private consumption by subsidies for the purchase or construction of apartments or housing houses and the facilitation of access to credits for these purposes. This is particularly important because more effects would be achieved through this measure. On the one hand, we would release the cramps that have taken place in the real estate market and, on the other hand, we would solve some 6,000 housing problems for young families and those who do not have housing. The measure that we proposed was, in our opinion, good or better than what we have on the table today, because it combined better credit activity for the subsidy, it was more attractive and more people would intervene on it than would interfere with the measures that this law brings to the table today. I also express my surprise and regret that no room has been found in this law for independent entrepreneurs. They're not in the previous marriage, they're not in this marriage. They represent an important part of the economic structure in this country, the entrepreneurial fund and the accessibility offered to them there is not enough in these circumstances. Regardless of what we say, we will, of course, support this law on the table today in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We've also tabled some amendments. I would like to stress, on this occasion, that this is not a matter of substantive amendments. I must say that both the law we have today on the table and some of the laws we have received in recent months from the Ministry of Finance or the Government have been extremely incomplete. First, they were substantially completed by the Committee on Finance and then, if you will remember, by the National Assembly. And that's the law, too, I'm sorry. I don't know why. The time to prepare was enough. I think that such a law should be adopted by the end of last year, no later than the beginning of this year. Nevertheless, they are the amendments we have tabled. The essence of these amendments is two. First of all, clarity. The law is clearer, the doctrine in Article 6 is that it divides or makes clear who the beneficiaries of access or access to these loans are, and on the other hand, the purposes for which these credits may be used. This seems essential to us because we are otherwise afraid that there will be a flaw in the implementation and that this law will simply not be implemented. And we're cutting costs with the amendment. We think 0.2% is too much. For 350 million euros, this is €700,000. It's an annual allowance. There is no basis for this compensation to be so high, so we propose a reduction. Otherwise, we do not think that the main problem in this law should be costs, but something else is meant to be. This is on the one hand assistance to those who do not have to access the credit for the purposes for which the law provides them and, on the other hand, freeing up the cramps that have taken place in the field of consumption. In the Parliamentary Assembly, we will support the law and the amendments, and I invite you to support the amendments as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far drawn up various anti-crisis measures, including two laws by which the State has guaranteed banks first, and a second step by means of the Bank Guarantee Scheme Act to companies and cooperatives amounting to EUR 1.2 billion. This time it is a law that will directly help citizens and citizens, i.e. those who are most affected by the crisis, those who are unemployed, those who work for a certain time and young families, or those who first solve the housing issue. And another positive fact is that this law in some way accelerates spending and reduces spending uncertainty, which can also have a number of positive effects. That is why, in our view, this is one of the very important laws and also good anti-crisis measures. The guarantee scheme is intended for the content of credits, for the purchase and construction of apartments. The past housing policy and the related tax area have put a lot of people in a difficult financial situation, which this year's crisis has made much worse. While the Coalition Treaty provides for the reintroduction of so-called housing relief under the Income Act or the introduction of a so-called tax credit mechanism that would reduce the monthly obligations of creditors. Of course, we expect legislation to be amended in this direction by the end of the year. That is why, already in March this year, in the Group of Members, we have already addressed to the Government an initiative to try to provide aid measures to those who, due to the loss of their jobs, will be even more difficult or will not even repay their previous housing loans. We then proposed to the government, following an American example, the establishment of a fund to help pay off the housing loan, which would help a person in financial distress, and secondly, it would be a form of assistance to banks in terms of liquidity. The monthly income per person, the transitional ownership of the property, the additional terms of the loans and repayments would be determined by the Government when the fund was introduced. A similar programme has also been introduced in the United States at the time of the collapse of the real estate market, so today we welcome the Government's decision to adopt the proposal, otherwise slightly amended, and to draft a law on a guarantee scheme for natural persons. This is additional help to people who are too exposed to credit to make it easier to overcome the crisis. By law adopted by the National Assembly following an emergency procedure, the state will offer guarantees for housing loans amounting to EUR 300 million and the state will take on 50% of the risk. The maturity of the loans is expected to be 25 years and will be secured by mortgage. In the Group of Members, we really expect that the scheme will experience a lot of people's interests and the revitalisation of the real estate market and a better housing situation for individuals, especially those who for the first time solve the housing issue. We are also pleased that, together with the other coalition groups, we have been able to significantly improve the text of the law and introduce new categories of beneficiaries as well as extend the scope of the loans. The only dilemma and open question that remains is, in our view, the question of independent entrepreneurs. This has not been resolved and remains one of the groups that so far, I will say, has not been given any benefits in this area. There are 70,000 independent entrepreneurs in Slovenia and they have fallen out of guarantee schemes so far. We therefore rightly expect the Government to find certain solutions here too, and we expect it to take care of them and will be provided with an increase in the activity of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. In the Group of Members, we will truly support the law we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. If I may introduce a bit of irony, then we have yet another best measure to come out of the financial and economic crisis, which will be best when it works if it works. We do not have the best experience with his twin company, which was intended for economic companies, especially the benefit of this, because many in the economy estimate that implementation is too restrained, that too much money has been spent on droplets and that unfortunately it has been successful for those who initially assessed that these aids can only be received by the best, although the law was then changed in the country, but the implementation runs in the style of purpose as it was first - to provide funds for those who are the best and those from this rating very difficult, if at all, to receive such assistance. There is one guardian in this new scheme, because there is a limit up here and so not only those who are capable, but also those who have heard the crisis the most. For the first time, not all those who have been most affected by the crisis will be able to receive the second time, which is nothing wrong, even those who have not felt the crisis so much and could, I would say, set up an ambition to acquire housing, someone else may have put such ambitions behind them for a few years or even decades. Because he was affected differently and in a different way by the crisis and other problems. The government has two ambitions with this, so we understand in the Desus Group, with this law, and both of us will support the Dessus Group. The first is one that is somehow of a social nature and has the ambition of positive discrimination against that layer, which has been mentioned several times today. So those who have lost their jobs, those who are temporarily employed, or those who belong to the categories of young families. We support such positive discrimination in our group. We would also support that this circle might expand. The question arises, although this may not be resolved by this guarantee scheme, what about those, for example, young people who have not yet received the first job that they have not yet had, on condition, the privilege to be employed for at least a certain period of time or who have not yet had this opportunity to be employed and lose their job. What measures will we anticipate for those who have not created a family, so they do not belong to this category because they did not hope for it because they do not have a chance because the risks would be too great. I am afraid that some categories that should also be discriminated against in a positive way are declining here and should be asked for assistance or solutions for them probably with some other measures. Otherwise, we also support this proposal because, despite all of this, it is estimated that it is much better than just subsidisation, than merely tax reliefs, because it establishes another relationship, for example, that which will hire a housing loan, namely another relationship, a long-term liability relationship for funds that have not been donated to it, subsidised, but for funds that it has acquired as aid, which it will later be able to do so, you are also returning. In another ambition, the government seems to be following to support the economic work that we call the construction sector in order to increase the demand to reduce the supply of unstructured and others so that even new housing can be built. But if all of this works, there will still be a shadow that, according to the Group of Members, shows that we do not have an orderly housing policy, that we have an unusual ownership structure, and that, with these measures, we will only be perpetuating them, preserving them for a short time. The question is, therefore, what is the time dimension of this measure, whether it is right that this applies only to the crisis and whether it is right to allocate funds only for the first time of housing acquisition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's called a pat position. The proposal for a law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons is very attractive and also of substantive importance for all those who are in a temporary employment relationship, for all those who will be able to reprogram their loans and who have lost their jobs due to the economic crisis. And now the Slovenian public will point to Barovic, "look at him, he didn't support him." But I won't do it myself. However, colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will decide as they wish. And why won't I support him? You know, every single one of us in the '90s sitting here would have a company that would do a good job, make a profit, share a profit. When the crisis came, however, we would demand that this country, which is already in charge already, be guaranteed to cover our loss. Tell me who among you is hoping to say that I wouldn't have it. Banks charge cash for each citizen's transaction, but this change in two million people is billions. They make huge profits, they build palaces, they give prizes, they give millions of euros in rewards, they give away to the director. Thousands of euro prizes for supervisors, meeting three times a year - little. He pays twice or three times as much as ours, and we're responsible for the whole country. When the crisis comes, "hold on, give me a guarantee!" The state guarantees. But why don't the banks set up guarantee funds from all the huge billions of profits they've created, so that banks, under market law today, who are poor people who need credit, give these loans, and from their guarantee funds also cover those crisis moments. Just like me and you, we're all busy for a certain time, for four years. Maybe we'll be out of a job in 2012, maybe people will say. And now the country that's already been so poor, because it's got to worry about thousands of problems, about the economic rise, the start, these rich people, the rich people who line up, who have five hundred kilos, will be given a guarantee! So that she'll be liked by people, if we help you, you poor poor thing. Yeah, help is needed, only the banks help, the ones that line up, the ones that have been sorted, don't even know, look at the palaces, look at the offices. Billions of money went to waste, but now the state guarantees. "I'll give credit to one poor man if he can't pay it back, the state, and you'll give it to him." Okay, tomorrow I'm gonna create one company, so I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it, and I'm gonna do it. It's ugly, and it's hypocritical, the way we deceive people, how we want to be liked for the loony bins of those who are a few ten thousand, who are and are still at the expense of people who have to pay. Not to adopt a law that will be able to pay for everything with one bill, no. Do not accept the reduction of payment deadlines for the settlement economy, no. The guarantee scheme, yes, one that's very bad and now another. This country will now guarantee banks to abolish banks in essence their basic function because banks earn from loans. However, this law also gives the possibility of such credit to foreigners without citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia. Great, he gets, like, three times and he goes, and the state pays a foreigner for it, because he's here, and he has a permanent residence and a job, and we'll be back at the obliterated. I'll say no to this guarantee scheme and to this law. However, colleagues from the Slovenian National Party will decide on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u35	The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. All the so-called anti-crisis measures that we have dealt with in the National Assembly over the last half of the year have been directed either to the banking system and to the indirect economy or to the economy and indirectly to the employees, and we therefore welcome this proposal from the Government, which is directly directed at the most vulnerable groups of the Slovenian population, which is to those who have access to financial resources in the banking market or are virtually disabled in this situation. We are talking about people who are employed for a certain period of time, people who have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis, people who first solve their housing issue and young families. It is important to stress, however, that this is not a law which indirectly or directly grants any funds, since the obligations of the borrower under this law do not diminish anything. The same applies to all liabilities relating to credit insurance. This law only guarantees banks that in the event of default by the borrower, the Republic of Slovenia fulfils their obligation. That's the only thing that's gonna require a borrower. This is particularly true because we do not want citizens to be misled in the direction of granting credits that will have no consequences for them. The consequences will be exactly the same as any default on the obtained loan. Therefore, it is only that the bank will grant them a loan that would otherwise not be granted by the bank due to an excessive risk. So much so that there will be no confusion and later unnecessary and particularly unpleasant situations of already affected population groups. We support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party. On this occasion, we also want this measure to come to life in practice, or at least to come to life much faster than the measure of a guarantee scheme for the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Once again a friendly greeting to the representatives of the Ministry. I must say that with the guarantee scheme for the population in the Ministry they have prepared a good, quality and, above all, an anti-crisis law, which will receive comprehensive and unified support in the Chamber of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I do not wish to repeat what my previous panellists have already said about the content before me, but I am sure that many will be interested in the information that the average debt per capita in Slovenia in 2004 amounted to EUR 2.135, that at the time of strengthening economic growth by the end of last year it increased to EUR 5.513 and that most of this is due to the settlement of the housing problem. The scheme is being assessed favourably primarily because it will allow the discharge of the public's credits that have been owed in other more optimistic, different times, and now this credit is such a burden and such a heavy burden that their income position and, of course, their daily financing and survival are at risk. It would probably further underpin these arguments that, from last October to this year, there were more than 250 individuals in personal bankruptcy and a few ten pp. Why do people get into this problem? Most of the time, their distress and confusion are linked to the loss of a job. However, of course, in comparison with other countries, these data are not alarming and we are somewhere on the tail of the European debt scale, in many of the more significantly developed countries than our own, the population is more indebted. This is good on the one hand, but it can be very bad as long as the borrower has also hired obligations to settle and benefits from this is not wrong. However, when such distress comes, certain categories of the population are more affected. Here I see mainly those who have been credited for solving the housing problem. On the other hand, this law considers and solves the problem of young families and those who have lost their jobs. Here it must be said that the law is a good, appropriate solution; on the other hand, we have to work a lot with the population so that these credits do not mislead it and do not bring it into worse embarrassment and worse distress. In some comparable countries, there has been good practice when specific working groups and advisers have been set up at governmental or non-governmental level, which, with the population in these difficulties, communicate, draw up family budget recovery plans and, in general, solve the problems of over-indebted individuals who sometimes have a unilateral or unrealistic view of this problem. It is important to say that this improves the living conditions for people, so that there will also be an impact on the real estate market. We wish that the competition on the housing market is not affected. On the other hand, it seems important to tell us that when it is normalized, the purchasing power of many people also preserves human dignity. It seems clear to me that part of the risk is taken by the state and part of the bank that the law is aimed at saving the population and not the banks. It seems to us that we have been instigators of quite a few safeguards in this law in coordination, that such an apartment is being secured by mortgages on concrete real estate, that the end of this guarantee scheme is expected to be there somewhere by the end of 2010, that all together this legal procedure is going to be followed by a rapid procedure and that there is a total of 350 million euros of money invested in this scheme, and that it is important that banks will compete with SID Bank on the call and that more successful ones who have a better population will benefit from a lower effective interest rate. These were the key reasons that led us to support. I'm sorry for a slight overstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Please, yes. Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. You've received an amendment proposal dated 16. 7. by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Social Democratic Party to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Tinker Bell. Then I'm filing a report. I'm sorry. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. This law significantly eases the credit burden of the Slovenian population, while on the other hand it has an indirect positive effect on the economy. What I would like to say as crucial, including when considering the amendment to Article 6, is that this article makes it clear that this law is not just an anti-crisis measure. Even in good times, we have had problems in our community with the fact that persons employed for a certain period of time, and we know that there is an extremely large number of young people among them, in fact the largest proportion of young people employed for a certain period of time, is affected today by the fact that these are, of course, those contracts of employment that are first cancelled. This measure, the State's guarantee to allow access to credit resources to employees for a certain period of time, is not only necessary during the crisis but will also be needed after it. Secondly, of course, because we know that for at least a few more than 20,000 people, as unemployment has increased in the Republic of Slovenia after the date defined by this law, the social situation has deteriorated significantly and they are in fact faced with the often impossible task of meeting the obligations of the bank with substantially reduced personal benefits. In this respect, I see a good combination of development and social impact in this law. 350 million guarantees under this law represent at least EUR 500 million of credit potential. What would be my recommendation to the Ministry of Finance is to ensure that the immediate operationalization of this law will not happen to us those calvary events that followed the adoption of the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. One more thing. This is one of the anti-crisis measures. At this time, he is extremely welcome. In my presentation of the views of the members of the groups, I did not understand the comments on the content. The proposers of this amendment also recognise that it is actually a proposal to improve the text and the nomotechnics of the law itself. What's interesting about this is when the opposition talks about how we have no idea how our Government has no imagination to invent new measures, given that there is no comparison of a similar measure in other EU Member States, this can be a good example of this innovation of the Slovenian government, with which it tries to influence helping the population and helping the economy indirectly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Yes, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr President, not on behalf of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u43	I think the others have noticed that. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Yes, I hope you will eventually come to that knowledge. What was said by my forerunner is true. Many other measures have been taken in other countries that have helped to accelerate consumption, of course segmented in such a way that other multiplier effects have been achieved through this. And that is why I initially said in the position of the Group of Members that we support the purpose of this law, and we have proposed something similar at the end of April this year, after waiting for the Government to accept it. Now, this law does not apply indefinitely. That's not true. Article 3 is limited to 31. 12. In 2010, I support your idea to extend, and once that happens, we will also support this intention. With regard to the amendment to Article 6. So it is that in the SDS Group what is united in Article 6 and somehow quite confusingly mixed, the real purpose and accessibility criteria have been separated. The first paragraph of Article 6 sets out the criteria which are the same as proposed by the Government, saying that those who are employed for a certain period of time or unemployed after 1 October 2008. However, in the second paragraph of this Article, it is decided that this guarantee scheme may be used for the first resolution of the applicant's or his family's housing issue, in the second indent for the young family and in the third indent for all other purposes which are not specifically defined outside the first two, as it is also different in the scope of this guarantee in Article 7. In the first two, when it comes to housing, the matter is quite simple, given that all these loans are already secured by mortgage or land debt, it is not such a problem. In the third part, where the matter is limited to 10,000 euros, I think it is right that it is specifically defined. We also made clear what is considered to be a young family, what is considered the first solution to the housing issue. All in accordance with what has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and which has not been fully eliminated by the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Good afternoon! The intent of this marriage is certainly good. However, as always, we are making ourselves quite superficial and incomplete, and with these amendments we are trying to improve this law accordingly. Today it was said that there would be a lot of interest in these loans. Probably or definitely. But the question is, what will be the interest of the banks? Whether commercial banks are really opening champagne today is a very big question. I think there is one important issue that has not been mentioned here today. It's about how the unemployed are going to pay off their loans. There are probably two options, either not to be repaid or to work in black. If they want to repay credit and have to work in black, then that's not good for this country. It is not good for a country to promote black work through this law. What if the unemployed don't pay the credit? What about in this case? It is likely that the bank will issue an account to the State which will guarantee these loans and that the State will execute the non-payment of the loan through Durs, and there will also be an extension of the repayment of the loan or a write-off of the loan. We just have to wait for what happens in practice, what brings life. However, these amendments have certainly improved the law and show support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Hello again! I very much welcome the proposed law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons. I estimate that today it is difficult to say whether it really is true that the credit crunch in natural persons is significantly smaller than in companies. In doing so, we should not give any direct consideration to the amount of credits, but we should focus on the numerical data on how many companies or natural persons may have been given credits during this period or how comparable the figures of the past periods have been. Of course, it is also necessary and absolutely very much to support the proposed decision on who the guarantee will be intended or really to help those who are or who have lost their jobs, certainly without fault, or those who are employed from year to year, perhaps some for a certain period of time or are in one company, and one year later in another company again for a certain period of time, and somehow this circle turns into a vicious circle and unfortunately cannot rent a housing loan, as well as for young families that are solving the housing issue. Of course, I'll support this change myself. However, in the case of independent entrepreneurs, the Minister made it clear that we cannot mix business activities with [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Time's up. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Procedural? [[..]] It doesn't make sense that you're applying because your time, I think, is up. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Do you still have it? [[..]] All right, then. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Love Lycar. Please. Peace in the hall, please. Thin, quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. As far as the bill is concerned, my view is that the proposaler had a good one for me, although I personally doubt that someone who has become unemployed will be very interested in credit, as it is possible that those who have a minimum wage may be able to do so by now. But, as I say, the purpose, I think it was a good one to decide that, he's given a chance. As for the amendment, which I also support, I also think it is important to mention that the amendment in the original proposal removes the possibility of borrowing credit for foreigners, which I think makes sense, because in the crisis, financial and economic, it is right to take care of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia first, without having the same opportunities, even the same benefits for foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Representative of the Government of Mag. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. In fact, I would like to say that this amendment, in our opinion, does not regulate matters in a significantly better way than was originally laid down in the amended law. We even believe that it introduces discrimination into the system. In view of the fact that the residents of the Republic of Slovenia who have a residence permit and are also taxpayers are released in the first paragraph. Such an arrangement could even be constitutionally controversial. However, it is contrary to the views of European rules and European directives requiring equal treatment of taxpayers. Furthermore, we believe that in paragraph 3, the definition of the purpose for which persons may receive or whose persons may receive this credit is far too open, since, in addition to those who solve the first housing issue, we also enter through point c completely unspecified and undefined purposes for whatever, with the restriction relatively high. Therefore, the Government is absolutely of the view that this amendment is not acceptable and that it is more acceptable in the complementary proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have previously observed that, although you have seen that Mrs Brunskolet's time has run out, Mrs Bredi has said that she should apply for the debate, so I would make a procedural proposal, given that I can see that your Group of Members is indeed going to have time, given the creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that we have witnessed today at point 2 Zipro and which we have witnessed several times already in this mandate, to somehow order or consult your Group, that Mrs Brady or the SD Group for one part of that time that you remain, that you will be able to give its opinion on this Article 6. For what has now been said, as far as the strangers are concerned, hold fast. All countries [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Mr Černač, procedurally, you have gone on a substantive matter and I will take your word if you continue with the substantive debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Look, I don't know if we're this far now, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Mr. Blackach, I must take your word. [[...]] It was a pure abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I told Mrs. Pecan not to sign up, because time is up, just the opposite. Procedural, Mr. Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that some concerns and dilemmas arise in the consideration of this Article, I propose that the Government change its position to support this Article. And if anything else is to be added in the third reading following this second reading, you can submit an amendment that will then complete the matter, as you said the matter would be more complete. Nevertheless, I believe that this amendment is substantively meaningful because it improves certain matters, but if not fully, as the Government thinks, I suggest that you simply table an amendment for the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Mr Tanko, this was a substantive debate that could be held at the time you have at your disposal. The word is Love Lycar. Please. You already have. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. I'm sorry. I pushed it wrong. Who said a word? Mr. Chernach, Mr. Rozjej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. While it is true that sometimes several words mean more than one argument in the debates, sometimes this is not the case. As far as the time of our parliamentary group is concerned, I would like to say to my colleague Montenegro that sometimes it is true who is silent with the nine answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Report. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Mr President, there's been a discharge, and we were on it by Vito Rozej, Zvone Cernač, you're a little confused today. Maybe it'd be good if you went for a cup of coffee. As far as time goes, dear fellow Rogers, I didn't talk about it. I was talking about someone wanting to discuss and propose a solution. It's already been said about foreigners. In the third reading, we will support such a solution if it is proposed. But we wanted to say that it is right to take care of our own citizens first, of what other countries are doing. As far as we're concerned, we're not spreading anything. What you're proposing in a and a č is what we're proposing in c, only that it's clearly written. You do not have a limit on a and n, you only have it in Article 7 above EUR 10 000.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 6? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 6 and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Once again, it's just a better nomotechnics and nothing else in these amendments, I don't know why the government is so offended about it. In Article 7, however, we are somehow summarising the quota proposed by the Government. The government has proposed up to 200 000 euros; the committee has adopted 100,000; we believe that the amount of this loan is also important for housing; otherwise, we have done nothing. We are proposing a compromise option between the committee and the government over 150 000 euros. So much for housing. In the part where we talk about other loans, where the limit is 10,000 euros, it is the solution that is now enshrined in the law. Personally, I must say, vague, rather vague. I understand that this is a limit of 10,000 euros, and we also clearly propose that the amendment should be written this way. It is, therefore, that those who have been employed or no longer have a job can rent credits for any purpose, but here is a guarantee of 10 000 euros, which is already in the current text of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 7 and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u66	The amendments to Articles 8 and 12 essentially follow the amendments to Articles 6 and 7, which is why we have tabled them if they are to be adopted it is right to harmonise the other provisions. As a result, I will no longer be announcing myself until article 14; in fact, it is only about the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Article 8 and the amendment tabled. I am moving on to the debate on Article 12 and the amendment tabled. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on this amendment article. I am moving on to Article 14 and to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Please, Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u68	We are talking about a compensation, or otherwise, a commission to be paid that will burden those who take credit. 0.2% is proposed for €350 million, which means €600,000 for the first purpose, where it is 300 million and €100,000 for the second, where it is 50 million. We think it's too high a commission. It's an annual allowance. We propose a reduction to 0.05% because we do not consider this law to be the main purpose for banks or AIDS to serve it. The main thing is to relax this so-called credit crunch, which has also spread to part of the population. We think it will still be possible to service these loans normally. We also believe that it is appropriate to accept this because the financial effects envisaged by the Government are only 2.5 million at the annual level, saying what will have to be paid out of the budget through the guarantee, because people will not be able to pay it back. This is very little given the overall volume of this quota.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 14 and the amendment tabled. This concludes the debate on the amendment and concludes the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, within the framework of the urgent procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency and forced termination proceedings, the urgency procedure, EPA 487/V, submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and the proposal for a law amending the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency and forced termination proceedings, EPA 489/V, submitted by the Council of State for consideration. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice decided, at the time of its discussion on those draft laws, that, in accordance with Article 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it would also decide that a further procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I give the floor to the drafters of the law for additional supplementary explanations. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures is one of the government's responses to the economic crisis we are currently in. This is because this proposed amendment is better governed by a situation where the insolvency debtor is no longer able to pay even minimum wages to workers and associated contributions. This is the most affected workers who are employed in such companies who go to work and do not earn wages for their work. This is why the proposed three-way changes are being made. The first is to ease the creditor’s evidentiary burden of proving the conditions for the commencement of bankruptcy. Thus, a new irrefutable presumption of more permanent insolvency is introduced, which is the basis for the commencement of bankruptcy where the debtor is more than three months behind in the payment of minimum wages and associated taxes and contributions. The purpose of introducing such an indisputable assumption is to ease the burden of proof in cases where a legal entity is in a situation where workers are not able to pay even minimum wages and therefore do not receive their revenues, while at the same time they are not entitled to the benefits that would have occurred to them in the event of bankruptcy being imposed. This is also linked to the amendment of Articles 236 and 237 of the Law, which introduce stricter control of the debtor before the insolvency proceedings start where it proposes the postponement of the decision on the creditor’s claim for bankruptcy. Such a decision is possible if the management submits or works on a financial reconstruction that could avoid bankruptcy. However, the supervision exercised by the bankruptcy manager during this period goes in two directions. Thus, the bankruptcy manager will have a duty to supervise either an entity or a legal entity regularly pay minimum wages and associated incomes and whether it treats creditors equally. If he finds such infringements, that is the reason or condition for the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. It is also an additional condition for the imposition of this delay to pay the minimum wage on a regular basis, which means that such a delay in bankruptcy proceedings will not be required if the bankruptcy debtor does not pay the minimum wages within the regular period. However, the last amendment concerns the rate of the award. The current law did not lay down specific rules on what the ranges of these tariffs should be. As a result, the tariff in force previously did not contain maximum limits on the payment of prizes or compensations to bankruptcy managers. This is now amended because we assess that it is necessary to introduce a provision already in the law which will impose on the Minister the duty to prescribe and fix the maximum amounts of such awards in an act setting the rate of compensation in insolvency proceedings. This, of course, prevents enormously high payments resulting from the fact that payments can only be linked to % of the bankruptcy weight or property of the bankruptcy debtor. The proposed amendment introduces the duty of the Minister to prescribe maximum amounts to avoid these situations. Two amendments were also tabled in connection with this last proposal, contained in Article 114. One was tabled by members of the coalition and the other by members of the Social Democratic Party. Both amendments are going in the direction that the Supreme Court on the level of these payments is obliged to report and to refer it to the National Assembly or the Minister of Justice. After reviewing both amendments, the Government notes that it does not oppose the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party, which is essentially the same as the coalition has already proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Council of State, Alojz Kovšća. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The latest novelties on financial operations, insolvency and forced termination procedures were adopted 19. 5. 2009 and was also adopted with the aim of limiting and preventing the so-called "Missing Tradering". However, this novel has a broader scope than the legislator had foreseen and, in the context of its text, also concerns persons who did not actually participate in the creation of "missing traders". Let me explain on a simple case. If a limited liability company member today hires a five-year loan to expand its business and if it is an undertaking that has an ideal relationship in the composition of an asset and liabilities, then the obligation arises today when the shareholder is still active, is still responsible and intends to settle its obligations within this five-year period. This shareholder may, without wanting to abuse the company, for various reasons, possibly for health reasons or for reasons arising from objective market conditions, resell his company and resell it before the payment of those obligations to which he has made it, say, lease the loan. That's when he loses contact with the company. The company is solvable, liquid, which is what the company’s other owners do, but it is out of the scope, outside the scope of the company’s influence. If the loan is not settled and the company goes bankrupt within two years, it is deleted from the Registry of Justice. Then the former partner is jointly responsible for the obligation he has set up at the time. Notwithstanding the fact that Article 442 of the Financial Transactions Act states in insolvency and forcible termination proceedings, point 1 states that the active participant is a person who has had the position of a member in the last two years before the expiry of the deleted legal person. Secondly, in a deleted legal person before its termination, it had the option to influence its management and business in such a way as to enable the deleted legal person to take appropriate financial restructuring measures in due time. In this case, too, the shareholder had the opportunity to repay the loan at the time of the sale of the legal person or had the opportunity to assess whether those persons who bought the company from him would be able to lead that company forward and to lead it in the sense that the credit would be settled. This is a responsibility that we cannot assign to anyone under the Economic Society Act. The shareholders cannot assess their successors and sell the company on condition that they have a guarantee that the next owners will run the company properly and will not put it in red numbers. As a result, those who are not with their actions, or their intentions, have also fallen into this area, causing the formation of a "missing trader". We therefore believe that this amendment to the law does not deviate from the basic principles already established in the amendment of the law and we propose that the text "in the last two years before termination" be replaced by the text "at the end" in Article 442, paragraph 1, of the Financial Regulation. This achieves the central objective and content of the proposed amendment, which is to regulate the responsibility of former partners and to bind them to the moment of removal of the legal person from the register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed these two laws at its 17th urgent meeting on 14 July 2009. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if I shorten this report, we have done in part the so-called hybrid between the law submitted by the Government and the law submitted by the Council of State. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which had virtually no comments on the Government's amendment of the law and had comments on the version of the law submitted by the Council of State. We were further informed of the opinion of the Council of State and the opinion of the Government on the version of the law submitted by the Council of State. On the basis of Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, we have decided whether we can deal with both laws at the same meeting and also adopt such a decision, i.e. to consider both laws. The following was further explained by a representative of the Government and a representative of the Council of State, saying what we have just heard from both of them. The definition of the representative of the Council of State until the version of the law submitted by the Government. The Committee further adopted, pursuant to Rule 127 of its Rules of Procedure, the following two decisions, namely to draw up a supplementary proposal for a law on the basis of a government version of this law and not to include any of the articles of the law proposed by the Council of State. The Committee thus carried out a second reading of the proposal for a government version of the law. Members and members of the Committee have, I will say, after a lengthy debate which has developed around the bankruptcy managers and the amounts of their awards awarded just before the amendment to the Regulation fixing the level of tariffs, expressed concern about what happened and adopted one amendment to Article 2. This was the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. The amendment to Article 1 of the SDS was withdrawn by the proposers. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted together on all the articles and adopted them. The text in this form is an integral part of this report. The Committee also adopted, for formal reasons, that the version of the law submitted by the State Council was not suitable for further consideration. It is also important for me to inform you that the Committee has also unanimously adopted a decision or call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare an appropriate report on the awards awarded by the courts to bankruptcy managers since the entry into force of the law. Ten. 2010, so far. I count that we will also have one of the extraordinary meetings where this report will be discussed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Joseph Jerovšek has the word on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! We already have a second edition of this year's Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. This novel of the so-called bankruptcy law was introduced two months after the adoption of the first novel. Formally, there is still a bill tabled by the Council of State, which is obviously not supported today, so we will not comment on it, despite the fact that it brings some good solutions. At the time of the adoption of the previous amendment of the law, we stressed in the SDS Group that it was then an opportunity to adopt a comprehensive amendment to the bankruptcy law that would ensure the efficiency of the conduct of proceedings and increase the protection of the interests of creditors of bankruptcy proceedings and ensure the minimum rights of employees in companies that are mature for bankruptcy. However, the ministry and the minister did not do so at the time, and even by the law on a regular basis, if he could be a good one, which would have been a good one, he did not submit. At that time, the Ministry could offer solutions brought by the current novelties, thus facilitating the creditor's evidentiary burden of proof of the condition of commencement of bankruptcy, thus establishing an undeniable presumption of more permanent inefficiencies if the debtor is already more than three months behind payment of minimum wages. Secondly, ensure proper control of the debtor before the insolvency proceedings start if it proposes a postponement of the decision on the creditor’s application to initiate insolvency proceedings. The proposal provides for an additional condition for the postponement of the decision, namely the timely payment of minimum wages and associated taxes and contributions, and lays down additional rules on the supervision of the debtor's business during the deferral period managed by the manager. With these solutions, which should at least slightly improve the situation of employees, of course we agree in our party. The law also imposes an obligation on the Minister responsible for justice to provide in a sub-legislative act for the maximum amounts paid for the award of managers, flat-rate compensation for the takeover of the business of the dismissed administrator, reimbursement of the costs of managers or flat-rate sums to cover other costs of bankruptcy proceedings may not be exceeded in an individual case. It's a "platforming" award. This solution is an essential consequence of major anomalies in the approval of the awards to managers and has escalated the insolvency managers in the form of ex-excess awards following the implementation of the previous amendment to the law submitted by Minister Zalar, which allows for such payments for bankruptcys that began before 1. Ten. 2008 That's what we've been alerting the minister at the time of the adoption of the law, and that's why we're asking him why he hasn't assigned the upper ceiling for the awards by now. 12. 2008 when it first stepped into the tariff and amended the tariffs on the awards of bankruptcy managers, as the possibility of setting maximum amounts was paid to managers under the bankruptcy law which entered into force 1. Ten. 2008, has already been and is foreseen. Well, the Minister didn't do his job. The bankruptcy law, which entered into force on 1 October 2008, brought for the first time in history the complete transparency of the operations of bankruptcy managers, since all court decisions have been published on the Iipes website to the bankruptcy managers on the basis of the law. The events of the last days, the literally looting of bankruptcy managers and the high urgency and co-operation of the courts in issuing awards rulings, convince us that the present law is only a result of the fact that things have slipped away from the Ministry's anticipated scenario, which in fact encouraged bankruptcy managers to great rewards. Some information will need to be clarified that the dedicated bankruptcy managers have even been reminded of the timely submission of applications, as the prizes will be "maximated" and to check whether some of the ministries, according to some information, have really encouraged some courts to promote awards decisions. Once again, we stress that the law does not yet bring about changes to ensure that the basic purpose and the examination of the bankruptcy procedure are achieved, which is the least possible effect for employees and the interests of creditors. This could have been achieved by some normal change of law, in the normal process of that time it was enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today, it is often a problem for workers in many companies not to simply receive salaries after five months or more. In fact, they want to propose bankruptcy because they see it as the only solution to their situation. The new law before us relieves this evidentiary burden of the creditor in proving the conditions for the commencement of bankruptcy. An irrefutable presumption of more permanent inefficiencies shall be determined if the debtor is overdue for more than three months by payment of minimum wages, associated taxes and contributions. The proposed amendment to the Act amending the Financial Transactions Act in insolvency and forced termination procedures introduces control over the debtor before the insolvency proceedings start if it proposes a decision on the creditor's proposal to initiate insolvency proceedings. Additional rules shall be laid down in the supervision of the operation of the debtor during the deferral period managed by the administrator. The manager shall also check whether the debtor pays the minimum wages, workers, contributions and taxes charged to the payer in due time. These changes that we are considering today have come quickly. After we have already discussed the law for the first time, time has shown which are the most pressing shortcomings of this procedure. Of course, not everyone involved in these procedures is satisfied with the way things are going. Trustees and trustees will always have some comments on what and how and how, in sayings, the proceeds can be derived from bankruptcy. But the fact is, at least in the Group of Members, we really think that too much emphasis is placed on the legal knowledge of bankruptcy managers, while it would be wise and very good to focus on the economic and business knowledge of these people and on finding a solution that is not just a funeral. In Slovenia bankruptcys are generally completed the end of any activity. However, we are of the opinion that we could also look at examples of good practices from abroad when something new grows at the top of the previous companies. Obviously, we are not aware enough of the fact that bankruptcy can also be a restructuring of the company. Like I said. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed changes and we will also support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party because it is better than that proposed by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Mr Vice-President, Mr State Secretary with co-worker, honourable Members and Members. Position of the parliamentary group on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. The proposed amendment of the law pursues two very important objectives, the first in order to facilitate the creditor's proven burden of proving the conditions for the commencement of bankruptcy by establishing a more permanent inefficiencies in so far as the debtor is more than three months behind in payment of minimum wages and associated taxes and contributions. The second is aimed at limiting the unreasonablely high payout of bankruptcy managers by establishing a rule on maximum amounts already at the level of the law. The first proposed solution is primarily to protect workers in firms in difficulty, i.e. insolvent companies that do not pay wages. We will support this proposal in the DeSUS Group, as it will certainly reduce the agony of many workers whose existential situation is seriously threatened by the inability of an insolvent debtor - the employer - to pay at least minimum wages. Both the proposer and our parliamentary group assess the setting of a three-month deadline for late payment of minimum wages as appropriate and appropriate. On the basis of this indisputable assumption, the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings will be facilitated, and greater protection of workers will be ensured, as they may, in the case of unpaid salaries, unpaid wages or unpaid discharges, apply the payment of such payments from the guarantee fund. However, the second objective pursued by the proposed novelty relates to the payment of enormous payments, of course at the expense of the disproportionate burden of bankruptcy. The amounts of their prizes flew to the heights. Let me say that we are also talking about the amount of EUR 200 000 and more, while the minimum wage is EUR 589 gross. Immoral and valuable convictions are also cases where there is no loss of earnings left on the part of the failing companies, I stress, not even the minimum wage paid by the workers, while the bankruptcy managers raise incredible amounts. Members of the DeSUS therefore support the Minister's efforts to limit such payments. In this respect, it is recalled that the maximisation of these amounts is by no means conditional on the amendment of the basic law in this part, which is evidenced by the existing amended Rules on Tariffs for the Award and Costs of Managers. The latter was published in the Official Journal of 10. Seven. 2009 and this kind of payment is severely limited. The Ministry of Justice of the current government thus had a tool to limit the amount of these amounts completely in its hands from the beginning of the mandate and to speak out of ignorance about this problem at the expense of workers is not appropriate. And in order for some not to give up too much of this, the minister of the former government has allowed this type of damage to be allowed without care. In short, Members of the DeSUS support solutions that ensure greater protection of their rights for workers of corrupt companies. However, we also support the intention of limiting the now overpaid awards of bankruptcy managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The content of this new novel - among other things, it seems that this law will be record-breaking, will break all records - refers to the situation of workers in insolvency companies. It introduces lighter criteria for the introduction of bankruptcy. It refers to the limitation of awards to managers, which is already laid down by a sub-legislative act adopted on 11 July, I think. Although this is okay, unfortunately, if we read a little or watch what is going on, we see titles such as: "The chancellors and courts beat the Zalar limit of the prize", "The elimination of the award limit was prepared by the top manager" and so on. They usually call it, I think it's an Israeli river, Mosha Diane said, "Dogs bark, caravan moves on." However, there are among those who deal with the content of this law, the following opinions, the following, that the Ministry of Justice did not intervene in the anomalies of the existing law, which is why this law, according to users, I say, remains disabled and remains harmful. A thorough correction is needed, bringing about a marginalisation of the role of creditors of bankruptcy. What exactly is missing? The law does not define the basic objective or purpose of bankruptcy. The law does not specify the precise responsibility of participants, especially professional insolvency authorities. The creditors' law does not take on a more important role in the process and the will and influence of creditors should be exercised through the representative body of creditors. The law means the deprivation of the rights of creditors. The law does not confer specific powers on the creditor committee. The Board of Trustees shall not be entitled to review the business books and the complete documentation. The members of the Management Board shall not be allowed to use the funds of the bankruptcy mass for emergency work. The Board of Trustees as the supervisory authority shall not have the legitimacy to lodge complaints against the decisions of the court. The law does not allow for a different form of decision-making of members of the board of creditors than merely a mere rigid and formalistic reference to regular meetings, awards, rules and could also be mentioned. I think in some contexts I have been very clear and very specific. In my opinion, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, the law needs a thorough correction; the willingness to make this correction will have to be demonstrated by the Justice Minister, Mr Zalar. As long as this is not the case, I believe to all those who are personally concerned with the content of this law, which we are talking about, I will not support the proposed novel. However, colleagues and colleagues will decide on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, of course, we will support the proposed amendment to the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We believe that changes are going in the right direction because, to the extent possible, it is necessary to protect workers who are usually the most affected or short-lived in the processes of forced cessation of companies. While various bankruptcy managers have often benefited greatly from the bankruptcy process, workers have too often been paid for their work. Also, the information that came this week on a day is something that a person may be disgusted with. We simply cannot believe that it can be true that someone else is further exhausting the company for their personal, luxurious needs when it comes to the fact that the workers of the month do not get paid for their work, many times by bailing, and that they do not have for bread, for notebooks, just for any improvement. How is it possible for these individuals to be awarded such high prizes for conducting bankruptcy proceedings? And if all of this is true, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we hope or expect the competent authorities to act effectively. We expect those who have allowed such extreme immoral exploitation to pay for it. And we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to further tighten legislation in this area so that such cases will no longer occur. As for the above-mentioned case, we are talking about the IUV, we are probably all appalled, shocked, unprecedented scandal, and it is surprising that for a long time no one has been appalled by the excessive awards officially paid by the bankruptcy managers. These amounts have also gone to the sky too often and it is right to limit them in order to determine the maximum amounts that individual payments, flat-rate awards or reimbursements must not exceed. Of course, good law enforcement also requires good control, otherwise it is only letters on paper. And we will certainly support this novelty because it provides for additional rules on the supervision of the insolvency debtor during the suspension period of the decision to initiate the bankruptcy procedure. Finally, let me just add that we must be aware that bankruptcy is not always a solution or that workers certainly want the company to stay and keep their own employment. That is why I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to work primarily in this direction to keep as many jobs as possible in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and co-workers! The law comes at the right time with the right purpose and at least partially corrects and eliminates certain anomalies. The good law is also complemented by an appropriate amendment from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will receive all the support from us. In the Liberal Democracy Club Slovenia we support changes, as they are urgent and go first for the benefit of workers and will, inter alia, allow, for the first time, the necessary protection of workers and the second time that workers will be paid, even though, for example, the debtor avoids bankruptcy with all possible legal means. And it goes, if you want, in fact, for the anti-crisis measure or otherwise, the ministry has responded quickly to warnings of various anomalies, such as abuses, delays, particularly the unreasonablely high payouts of prizes and has prepared appropriate changes that I believe we are accepting today. The bill is prepared as one of the government's responses to the situation during the economic crisis and relates in particular to a more appropriate regulation of the situation where the insolvency debtor is no longer able to pay even minimum wages to workers and to these salaries related to taxes and contributions. This, in the first place, affects the workers and threatens the existence of a minimum of employees. We also expect opponents to acknowledge this time that it is a change in the right direction, that it is an urgent, rapid, effective change, but we certainly cannot tell this government that it has created or allowed it. No, no, no. This has been inherited, and this has also been properly regulated by this government, and let me repeat once again, and especially for the protection of workers, and has ended with a high payout. According to the new law, it is essential that the Minister should fix maximum amounts of compensation for bankruptcy managers. This has not been recorded in the law in force so far. For information, the maximum possible amounts of compensation have already been fixed by the Minister of Justice under the law and are already in force since 11 July 2009. Indeed, the current law does not provide for any criteria or conditions to be met by the Minister in the regulation of tariffs, so the maximum amounts can be fixed already in the Regulation without amending Article 114 of the Law. As I have already mentioned, the amendments to the Regulation have already entered into force, which is good. However, it is necessary and appropriate that the maximum possible amount rule is still laid down at the level of the law, so that each time the Minister of Justice will be bound by the obligation to take this rule into account when amending the rules. Of course, there is no need for a transitional provision concerning the alignment of the Regulation with this new provision since, in view of the previously explained amendments to the Regulation in practice, they are already in place. With the amendment of the law and the rulebook, high payouts no doubt end. These payments will not only be limited but will also be reduced. With regard to the apparent fact that judges still use the old one under the current rules and thus give managers unjustifiably higher prizes than they are allowed or arranged according to the new one, and to observe an unusual increase in the number of decision-makers since the Minister announced that the remuneration would be significantly reduced, let me just say the following. The Minister has given this timely warning to both the President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the higher courts. Most of these decisions for irregular payments are not yet legally binding, so creditors can still complain, and we strongly hope that they will, because they have a legal basis for success. In addition, the Ministry of Justice ordered the State Defence to lodge a complaint in procedures where the State is a creditor to the decisions on high prizes. In the end, although not at least important, the Minister of Justice also responded by asking the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Supreme Public Prosecutor to verify that this might not be a matter for signs of a criminal offence. Therefore, the proposed amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will be unanimously and unitedly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In this mandate, the National Assembly, as has already been said, has already considered the amendment to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures, at that time following a regular procedure, and we adopted the amendment in May of this year. In this latest novel, however, the Government proposes to deal with it as a matter of urgency. The urgency is that the economic crisis poses a serious threat to the existence of a minimum of employees, as workers' agony is increasing by delaying the bankruptcy process. And this rapid government response, the Social Democrats, we welcome and support. The proposer wishes to regulate the situation more appropriately with the proposed amendments when the insolvency debtor is no longer able to pay even the minimum wages of workers and the associated taxes and contributions owed to the payer. My colleagues have already talked a lot about the objectives and main solutions in presenting their views, so I would not repeat them. However, I think I can say that the Social Democrats will support the adoption of the law. However, we will also support the amendments tabled by colleagues from the SDS because it is more precise, and we are probably all advocating precise laws and ones that will benefit people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Two amendments are tabled in Article 2 of the bill and I ask if anyone wants to talk about the proposed amendments. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the coalition has announced support for this amendment. It is simply that the Supreme Court collects this information once a year and sends it not only to the Ministry responsible for justice, which the amendment of the coalition provided for, but also to the National Assembly. We have already adopted such a decision at the last meeting of the Committee, when we tasked the Minister or the Government with drawing up some such report. We will also be able to discuss this at the committee or, if necessary, at a future time in the National Assembly. Maybe just a few things that disturbed me about this amendment reporting. You know, it's hard to say it's inherited. Minister Sturm has sat there 40 days since the new law was in force, the current minister sits there seven months or so, it is difficult to debate because some have talked about how timely and rapid the reaction that it is. That's not true. Mr. Saiovic, that's not true. It's for the viewers. You can blow that to the viewers and not to the electorate the truth. It is simply that the previous government has been implementing this law for 40 days and that the current government has been implementing it for seven months. The amendment of the Regulation was already made on 5 December 2008, i.e. during the current Minister's time and even then could limit these matters. That would be just in time. But it's not an obvious, it's just my view, and I want this area to be really regulated in the future as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Because I see interest in the debate. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. The first one has the word, Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we support this decision, and we will also attach this amendment to it. As Minister, Mr Aleš Zalar, we can say that he acted responsibly, but he has an insubordinate judiciary that still issues decisions. It is unacceptable that it is right now to observe the enormous number of decisions that have been written, despite the fact that the National Assembly has adequately protected this law. It is unacceptable, respected and respected, that scavengers, not bankruptcy administrators, scavengers, bankruptcy undertakers, can receive €608,000 for a court decision, in order to clean up after a company that has failed anyway. This is unacceptable, and here is the lack of the Ministry to favour bankruptcy managers in the payment of their prizes, not the workers who have earned those salaries. Ministers in general can only observe errors in the economy and pigs, which also happen elsewhere, in state-owned companies can only warn. This proved to be true at the Christmas house, when Prime Minister Borut Pahor used his finger to make sure that 13 salaries were not paid, but it was, as well as a Christmas house, a lot of other things in the state company. Where's the power of the government? Where are the official law enforcement authorities? Where? Where's that legal country now? And don't tell me that some scavenger, some undertaker, can pick up with a legal decision, say Krška, Videm, 416 thousand euros, while workers get 15% of the pay for their work. It's bullshit, it's bullshit! And not here to comfort us with this law. Of course, it's good, we'll support it, we'll stop this agony, and it'll probably make it easier for workers to buy this diaper that we put in their glasses, but it's not a solution yet. Respected and respected! We did not simply go to a referendum for Slovenia alone and we did not fight to live so badly and to be able to endure such a mess in Slovenia. They're pigs. They're ecclatic pigs. Soon we will have 100,000 people who do not have the right to work or who are simply left to social transfers that are like them. Inadequate. Look at what's happening now in Prekmurje, in the Styria region, which we once solved because we ignored because we basically left the possibility to anyone who had the will to commit economic crime there. What we have done from the big companies there, at the end of that, is only possible if we search through memory, of course with sadness. There are no more TAMs, no more successful companies and today we close Mura, while we allow, of course, allow, see, here I have a couple of legal decisions on the reward of the manager, 22. 6. Allow astronomical payments to individuals. The courts are still "stammering" today, this is the moment where such decisions are written and this is unacceptable. We cannot talk about how the government has done everything because it has limited these payments. It will do everything when it invites these gentlemen and, of course, the bankruptcy managers are among them to bring the one too paid back. You know, nobody has the right to collect money from bankruptcy just because they ran some administrative procedure in the company. Look what's happening today, this moment at the MIP in Gorica. We have the will of individuals, we have the money, we have the programs that could solve this business, but the bankruptcy manager has decided that this is not in his thinking context and that this company will not give itself, like other business partners who would like to keep this customer, work forward, hire people, somehow keep this industry in the region, he has decided on some other context. It's the same thing in Murska Sobota, the same case as who gives responsibility to those people who do what they want. Look what happened in Elan, how much money we paid to buy it from the Croats. We're losing him again today. As long as you come to the National Assembly in such a flattened manner with small changes, the dissatisfaction among people will be enormous. I ask the proposer to consider changing the order. The bankruptcy manager is like a captain on a boat who can last this award if there's anything left for him. Everyone else has to get this sooner. In the sea, the principle is, if the ship dives, the captain is the last to leave. Keep it that way in the economy. And until you do, you support the mess and the mob. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The administration of the minister and the ministry in the matter of bankruptcy laws, the amendment of this, is similar to that of that fireman who likes to put out so much that every time he can fire something so that he can fire, including the ministries, we now have another novelty, a disabled novelty, because it brings significantly less. The previous novel also allows these enormous payments to be paid back. And not only that, we hear from the Ministry that the courts and bankruptcy administrators were called to hurry. And then, of course, change the rules over time. Now the bankruptcy managers have been ripped off, grabbed, cleaned up. It's the Blessed Gehenna when you're on fire about attorneys. Attorneys in this country have never done anything before. What did the Minister do in his mandate? With the amendments to the Penal Code, when the Supreme Court went on to say that it was not necessary to make it valid for everything to be fine. And the Constitutional Court ruled that the Ministry's conduct was totally unnecessary. But they didn't bring anything smart into bankruptcy legislation. The bankruptcy managers were supported, the looting was supported, I tell you, it was supported, absolutely. The dedicated bankruptcy managers were supported. Do your last names, most emphatically, from the UJV Mrs. Toš, from Elan Mr. Andrej Marinc, or do these last names tell you anything about the alignment with this regime? Where do these last names come from? This is a complete outsourcing of the regime in power. These are of course the pigs and the pigs are also, I must also start using this term, not to look at creditors, the workers, but to see that it will take as long as possible for the regime to get as much money out of it, anyway, and that indirectly as much money will get into the dedicated pockets as possible. We accept the second novel and accept it again with disabilities. Isn't that outrageous? The Minister changed the tariff for the first time 11 days after the adoption of the Ministry. And it's already a previous marriage that may have made a mistake, but it anticipated the possibility of maximizing the prize. The Minister devoted himself to the tariff and apparently knew what was going to happen, and he did nothing. It allowed the benevolence of the courts and all that the whole connection had been activated and that, like leeches, they had sat on companies in bankruptcy. Here a real bloodbath has developed, but it's from the blood of the workers, from the blisters of the workers, and don't let them say they're working for the workers. Everything that's going on is going against the workers in this country with the current power. I asked you what laws, when will you reform the Penal Code again? It's where the experts are dealing with it again. Whether the Council is still in place to amend the Penal Code and those experts are still operating, even though the Constitutional Court has determined that everything is fine. Where's the Ministry's energy going? Is that group also paid from the shares of the bankruptcy masses? That's the reality in this country. You are also responsible for this, because you support everything. Just as you tried to make the excavation possible yesterday, 17 Members signed up for the robbery, already from a fully-fledged defence ministry, so that these Balkan ties in Ljubljana, which deal with real estate, would be allocated EUR 33 million, additionally, from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. And no shame nor the President of the National Assembly, is signed under this, not the leaders of the parliamentary groups. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u95	Lord Jerovšek, be kind and speak of the amendment. Not about the adoption of the budget, which was on the agenda yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u96	It's about workers' rights. This is how workers' rights are robbed through the budget and in all places. You allow coalition MPs to play leeches at all possible positions. Sign your own amendments to the law, which are leeches. Disrupt the country, and even here, as I said before, that the minister says he has not been informed of the courts and bankruptcys on the APES has been published. Are the services blinding him or not? Are they only bluffing when the Penal Code changes? It's immature and rude and insulting to the Slovenes that the minister says he's not informed and that he's not being informed. Why do we have the Justice Department? And I wonder, of course, whether the fact that the courts have made it possible after the deadline has been reached that they have stepped up for these extraordinary awards, or whether the courts of the minister are not blackmailing them because they know things from his practice as President of the Court, but they know that it should be quiet that they will have to speak now that the lawyers will be correcting them. They haven't fixed anything yet? Almost nothing. And let the message go from here to bring the bankruptcy law, because it is obvious that half the economy will go bankrupt under this government and you will put it in your own pockets at the expense of the Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was going to talk to myself about the amendment that's in front of us. But I'm still going to say that it's a fact that holds. That the high compensations to the bankruptcy executives had already been paid last year and this spring on the basis of a law drawn up by the former Minister of Justice and adopted by the previous government coalition, and that the law also gave rise to a regulation on the basis of which these things had taken place. So please don't overdo it, but it is true that I can't, in any way, have a quarrel with Mr Jerovsk in his vocabulary and in his views. And I would say, however, what Minister Zalar said on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice that in due time he was not alerted to the actual consequences of that law adopted by the previous government coalition and that rule before. We've got to be that honest. It is also very invalid for me to refer even to some of the surnames that were here as bankruptcy managers and because they bear these surnames, so I understood, were justified after or were awarded such high compensations or awards in court. I think it is extremely inappropriate to discuss this here in this Chamber, otherwise we should say that in the previous term, there has been a number of such beautiful flowers of different surnames, which also mean something in this history, especially political history. However, I will say that, as far as the SDS Group's amendment is concerned, we have no problems with it and we will support it, because it is probably also appropriate in these crisis situations that the National Assembly is informed of these matters, and also because it is a third branch of the government that this National Assembly with the law imposes on it, so it is only right that the National Assembly is informed not only of the Ministry of Justice. Although, if we go in this direction, so that every law will impose something on the Supreme Court and report to the National Assembly not only to the Ministry of Justice, we will come with us in some way in contradiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, joined the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond to some of the statements made by the opposition Members, particularly in the sense that the first novel adopted in May this year has made it possible to pay such high reimbursements to bankruptcy managers. It just doesn't hold. And even when this first novel was adopted in May, no one, not even in the working bodies or in the National Assembly, pointed out that the problem was in the rules on fixing the amount of compensation which did not know the above limits. No one has highlighted this problem. This is the first time we've paid attention to 30. 6. when the payment of the compensation for the opening report in the event of an IUV bankruptcy occurred. And we responded immediately to the Ministry by amending the rules that came into force 10 days later. Now you have before you a change in the law that allows or commands that such a maximum in the rules governing the fixing of refunds is always prescribed. And the main problem with the tariff, which was valid until 14 days ago, was that she didn't know the upper maximum. And it is obvious that the current minister is guilty of reacting only when he has received information about such payments - such an observation cannot be accepted. The Act, which was the basis for the previous tariff, was adopted in the previous mandate without an analysis of the financial implications. And I can't take responsibility for the fact that, by reacting to the amendment of the rules within 10 days after we have received the first information on such enormous payments, we are more responsible than someone who has adopted the law and regulation in the first place. However, as regards the fact that the ministry has not fully fulfilled its tasks, I must stress what some have already said before me, but I must repeat this. The Ministry has done everything in our power to ensure the uniform application of the law that we have adopted in the form of a new regulation. The Minister has requested the Supreme Court to ensure the uniform application of the law in the resolution of the procedures of the award and compensation to bankruptcy managers. The Minister also ordered the State Attorney's Office to analyse all cases in which the State is involved as a bankruptcy creditor. And if these were cases of payments that fall within this time of dispute after the start of the activity to amend the rule of law to appeal in this regard. And the State's Attorney's Office will appeal. The Minister also publicly called on all creditors in such procedures to complain about such, enormously high, awarded or recognised compensation. These decisions are not yet legally binding, and the Minister has called on creditors to exercise their rights. However, the Ministry cannot exercise these rights instead of creditors. Finally, the Ministry also reacted to the fact that the number of decisions recently issued just before the adoption of the new regulation had increased. In this we have seen reasons for concern and in this concern the Minister has informed the Commission of both the prevention of corruption and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. These are institutions that have the power and competence to investigate possible suspicions, if they do exist. Because of all this, I cannot accept the perception that the ministry was too passive. It is true, however, that if we learned that, at the rate adopted last October, a possible payment which actually exceeds reasonable limits is possible because there is no ceiling, we would have taken action earlier. We acted as soon as we got that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'm opening time to report to the debate. First of all, Mrs Eva Irgle has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I only have a minute, I'll be quick. On the Internal Policy Committee, Mr Zalar said, inter alia, that he had decided to amend this law because it contained some important anti-crisis measures regarding bankruptcy managers. So far, everything is nice and right, but what bothers me the most at this point is that Minister Zalar is first, I don't know how, or first, he's made sure that the bankruptcy managers are awarded astronomically high awards, and then Minister Zalar, under the terms, "fell on the tail" to these bankruptcy managers. And what did he do? He changed the rules. So here we have an extraordinary situation - first, let's take care of all those that we have to take care of on political pay and award astronomically high prizes, while workers and creditors barely survive from day to day. On the other hand, after we've paid off everything, Minister Zalar says, "but today we're good and we're going to change the rules." I find that extremely inappropriate. Since I don't have any more time, all I want to say is that it would be the time for this government to start acting a little more responsibly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. A few previous discussions have shown very well why ignorance of the law is damaging, and it would be good for politicians to know more about it. Once again, I must say that the Minister acted in a responsible, timely manner. It may also be necessary to know what it means if a particular matter is not yet legal, that such conduct and payment requirements are not the end of the story, that it is not a fact, but that all remedies are, of course, already open. Since we are talking about the amendment, I must say that I support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because it is better, more precise than the coalition, and I think it is right that the National Assembly is also directly informed in addition to the Ministry. Of course, some, previous debaters, have asked a number of questions and few answers. I'll give one concrete answer. If, in the case of the Vrhnnik leather industry, the state acted today and in these cases, then this would not have happened, an article with large titles: English "consulter" IUV: I informed Minister Bajuk of all things. The Court and the previous government have appointed supervisors in the IUV. Where were you then, ladies and gentlemen, full of your mouth today? We have detected an anomaly, this government, this coalition is repairing and abolishing it, in a legitimate way, and this government is acting responsible for the recruitment of the supervisory councils. These people are our extended deadline and responsibility needs to be sharpened. Because in companies where everything goes its own way, there can be a manager. Good managers separate from the bad in crisis situations like today. Back when it was a conjunctura, of course, when everything was sold, the dilemmas, the trials and the responsibility of the personnel were not so. Today, however, we are correcting these matters with effective, quick answers, and we are solving them, because obviously understanding is not enough, and I will repeat some essential views once again. With the amendment of the law and this rule, the high payout is over. These payments will not only be limited but will also be substantially reduced. With regard to the apparent fact that judges still use the old one under the current rules and thus give higher awards to managers than they are allowed or restricted by the new one and that there is an unusual increase in the number of decision-makers at the time when the minister announced that the remuneration would be significantly reduced, let us say the following again. The Minister drew the attention of the President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the higher courts in good time. Most of these decisions are not yet legally binding, so creditors can still complain and we strongly hope that they will. In addition, the Ministry of Justice ordered the State Defence to lodge a complaint in proceedings where the creditor is a State to the decisions on high prizes. The Ministry of Justice also responded by informing the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of these conducts to verify that it was not a crime. And if we behaved this way years ago in the case of the Vrhnika leather industry, this calvary, which workers and employees experience today, certainly did not happen. All governments, our previous governments have a similar responsibility to those of companies such as Mura, LTH, Mip and others. Of course, the crisis is also an opportunity for all of us to be aware of our responsibilities together. But I can see that these explanations will certainly be sufficient, for those of the most zealous ones who had something else to say have already left the hall. But if necessary, I'd like to do it again. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, of course, Mr Vizjak, even if time is "bleep", then it is not necessary to escape from the hall, but also those who have contrary weighty arguments are nice and polite to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Since time has passed for the SDS Group, I cannot give the floor to Mrs Alenka Jeraj and Mr Gorenak. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 12.30 p.m. and at the same time I am informing the Heads of the Group that the President of the National Assembly, Dr Pavel Gantar, is calling on the College of the President of the National Assembly five minutes after the suspension, at 12.05 p.m. in room 217, to agree on further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u106	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please [[...]] Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First of all, I would like to ask you to warn your fellow Members from our parliamentary group, including me, that they will be more considerate of me, not being here before I get the word leaping into words and distractions. I would like to remind you, Mr President of the National Assembly, that we have tabled two amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I must say that, in the Group of Members, we strongly oppose the fact that the President of the National Assembly, when he holds the meeting, interprets the Rules of Procedure so creatively and that, in a well-founded proposal by the Group of Members, even before the debate has taken place, he rejects and does not allow Members to discuss it. And at the end of the day, don't let them decide. In the Group of Members, we believe that the amendment we have tabled to the Budget Implementation Act has been properly tabled. He referred to an article of the transitional and final provision which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can also make amendments and, contrary to practice, even contrary to the Rules of Procedure, is the President or you have rejected this amendment. As this practice of addressing the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group repeats itself from the meeting, not only in the submission of amendments, but also in the convening of working bodies or the meeting of the National Assembly, we strongly oppose such an approach. We wanted the President of the National Assembly to convene the College during the meeting of the National Assembly, so that he could agree at the College whether it is still possible for our amendment to hold a debate on this proposal. However, you have decided to do so five minutes after the discussion has been concluded. Even in view of our proposal, even in view of the nature of the amendment proposal, I do not believe that such action was admissible. While it is business, it is not the most appropriate for the Group of Members. We are of the opinion that, if we want to improve certain things, we should adopt certain common solutions to get out of a situation where, not because of our own fault, but probably because of those who are even more responsible for the situation, so that together some things can be prepared to enable those who are entitled to certain options and to receive funds from the State budget to also better conditions for such cooperation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Dear Mr Tanko, please, if you finish slowly, three minutes; they are not counted, but I count them; they are slowly expired.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u109	I believe you do. I propose that, despite the fact that the debate was concluded, the President-in-Office of the National Assembly should reopen the possibility of a debate on the amendment being tabled, and that Members should then, by voting, decide whether or not this amendment is appropriate for further consideration and also for adoption or introduction into the provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u110	This proposal is eloquently contrary to the Rules of Procedure and, of course, I will not take it into account and put it into discussion. I'm warning you about what was said at the College. The amendment is also formally incorrect because it has been introduced into the basic law, but not into the amended law that has been discussed. Formally, he was introduced into a law that is not in the procedure at all, to the basic law. That's the first thing. Otherwise, I explained all the other circumstances of my decision at the plenary session and at the College. For the sake of us Members and the public, our meetings are also accessible through various media, television and other media, so that people can see for themselves how these meetings are conducted. And I have to reject your other findings to work in the National Assembly and to chair the meetings. Well, that's not the point, Mr. Tanko. When we get to this and open the point, you can get a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We haven't even reached the point. I can't even count your time, Mr. Tanko. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the termination of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party will oppose the amendments to the 2008 and 2009 Budget Implementation Act. Indeed, it is unacceptable for us that the State is in additional debt, which is in fact the fundamental substantive objective of this new law, for an additional billion EUR 100 million. This burdens future generations. Why am I talking about future generations? The government in the budget documents predicts 3 to 4% of the gross domestic product deficit for all years of government in this mandate. So each year, the country's debt will increase by so many percentage points. This debt of the country, measured in gross domestic product, will certainly double within the mandate of this government. If they received a public debt of 22.7% of gross domestic product, the current government will increase it by about 80% in the first year to a good 30% of GDP. This will burden future generations. Only this novelty of the law means an additional 500 euros in debt to every Slovenian. In doing so, the government has no clear answer as to how it will and when it will and who will repay the debt. The government is aware of the favourable position it has taken. This is that she received Slovenia very low in debt, and that she has a lot of maneuvers here, and she will do so, she will assign us to the door or across. Of course, I am concerned about who will pay this debt, especially because the debt of work is at the expense of some waste of the country for current needs, but not for those development projects that would generate additional value in the future. These development projects are certainly infrastructure projects, these development projects are investment in knowledge, in people, and instead it is strengthened and, of course, does not interfere with the functioning of the country as such and, of course, this is devastating in the medium term, let alone in the long run. Slovenian Democrats do not want to participate and we will never support such a policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u113	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! The Slovenian national party supported the budget balance yesterday. It was difficult to convince colleagues and colleagues, because I had already personally been in the Sava region with €1.5 million in the balance sheet funds already provided for the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. But I said, okay. My colleague, Miran Györek, whom I defended yesterday, I think three or two times, fought for 334 thousand and a few euros to avoid being taken from primary health care according to the demographically endangered area. But we said, well, it'll be better. In the Slovenian National Party, we know that we have a government that has been elected by the people, and this Government has drawn up a balance that it must stand behind and that it will be responsible for in good and bad. The Slovenian national party said yes because they wanted to help. Given that ZIPRO, the Law on Budget Enforcement, is, in fact, an urgent evil or a system that we have copied, I do not know, from the Germans, the Austrians, that we have two separate laws, of course it is impossible to expect that we would not support ZIPRA in Slovenia today, given yesterday's decision. At the same time, I want to tell all of us that we don't care. In the hope that the Government has drawn up a rebalancing that will bring something good to the budget of the State of Slovenia for the following years. We will also support ZIPRO, and I ask and warn the Government once again - I hope that at least she can hear me or read me if she is not here - that it would be a time to replace this system and to go into the single formulation of budgetary policy, such as Sweden and Great Britain. So that we don't waste time and apologize for one thing or another, because we are actually forced to decide something today that was decided logically yesterday. In the Slovenian National Party, we will also support ZIPRO, expecting the 2010 budget and that the events will take place in the autumn at the third rebalancing, which will take place in the interests of Slovenia and Slovenians, not the Social Democrats or the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia or anyone else - for the benefit of Slovenia and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the Commission Don't you? [[...]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. Will you open the application?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u116	Yeah. I think it'd be good to open the application. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Please. Franz Bogovich has an explanation of his voice. Please. We said no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u117	Thank you for your warning, President. I will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. Two key data or things that change the level of indebtedness and guarantees, and I think that such a document, which is the normal result of yesterday's balance sheet, exposes Slovenian public finances. For in this document and with this document we are more in charge of Slovenia and Slovenia at the end of the year for more than 1,000 euros. Let's say that, with all the controversy yesterday, we add these 1,000 euros to the current 4,000 and even more dangerously, in this Zipra correction, we are giving the country the opportunity to issue more than 3 billion guarantees this year. With such things, I think we really are putting too much emphasis on Slovenian finances and we should have more fundamental interventions and also a sharper approach in this case. That's why I won't support this Zipper.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. I am part of the Social Democrats' Group, which will, of course, support the Budget Implementation Act. We're not happy with the debt either. But this debt is a simple necessity if we are to continue what we are trying to achieve in this country. Therefore, in order to ensure minimum social security for all those affected by the international economic and social crisis, and secondly, with targeted measures, help the economy in the area of increased liquidity of the economy or, if you wish, exceed the credit crunch or measures aimed at increasing competitiveness and creating a technological break-up of the economy. It is interesting that yesterday, when we discussed the budget, the budget balance, we discussed amendments long and wide. Each of these amendments spoke about how to increase the country’s expenditure, and it is interesting to hear today how some object to this debt. Perhaps, at a time when this country was able to create surpluses, it could create this difference, and in this case, even today when this law was adopted, we could talk about how the debt in this country would be smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much, President. All those who supported the rebalancing yesterday, we said yes, and now we have to say the next letter of the word to Zipper. Each of us is probably opposed to debt, but there are times when, if we want to maintain development, there is obviously no other way. I am confident that these additional funds will preserve a number of jobs on the one hand, on the other hand, we will also pursue a policy that will be socially sustainable and, of course, also to draw on European funds. We need quite a bit of our fresh money, and it will certainly remain largely for economic projects that bring new added value, so of course I will support this law, while, of course, keeping a watchful eye on the debt repayment and the debt debt in the coming years is very moderate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u122	Please apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. Voice explanation, Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will also support this law on the implementation of the budget from some of the facts. For the first time, that the revenues from the adopted budget to this balance, which we adopted yesterday, have been reduced by a good billion, that of course the commitments made by the law adopted in the previous government have been increased by a good 2 billion in the social and economic sphere this year, which of course means that the deficit was created by good 3 billion and that the debt was total only 2.4 billion and that the government succeeded within the budget, within the austerity measures, to save already 600 million. I will also support this because I think that through this law enforcement we allow the pension or pension fund to function normally by the end of the year so that we can enforce all the laws we have adopted in the National Assembly. This is a one-off aid, which is also providing compensation for those who will be on hold temporarily and some other measures that we have taken in the social field to alleviate the crisis that workers feel. And the non-acceptance of this would mean to me that I don't want any of this and that I want to put into question certain things that this National Assembly has already accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u125	As I have already said about the party, including ourselves, we will support Zippo, but I believe, Mr President, that I also have the right to speak about the proposal of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it belongs to this point. In the Slovenian National Party, for the first time, if this amendment were to be given to the hearing or to the decision-making process, it would be supported. Secondly, you want or don't want me to say, after nine years of experience working in this assembly, it was so, for the amendment that was proposed, and although the last moment, given that the last day is today, I know that we are all tired, nervous and nervous that we want to go home, we should meet the parent working body of the Committee on Finance, we should consider this amendment, we should receive the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. And when I received a negative opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, I have read many times that the amendment is not consistent, that the amendment is not valid and that it is not decided on. But I read this in my mother's opinion on the confirmation of the competent legislative service of the National Assembly. You know that because you have a lot of experience, Mr President, that is what all experienced Members know, which are not enough in this National Assembly. In my own name, I also protest that we passed the amendment just like that, with some claim that this amendment does not fall within the final provisions. It's not like that. Let them judge this by the mother's working body, to give her opinion to the Legal and Legislative Service, and then I will calmly say, "You are right, Mr President. We will not discuss this amendment." I believe you, but only on the basis of your words that this amendment is not appropriate, no offense, I don't believe it is true. I'm seriously protesting here on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues that we can't go like this even if it's the last day, even if it's Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u126	About all this, my dear fellow Barovic, I've told you everything. I can't comment on that any more in this place when I explain my voice, and I won't. This amendment has also been formally incorrectly tabled, and we have concluded this debate. Explanation of voice. Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. None of the amendments we tabled yesterday increased expenditure because all amendments were tabled in a manner that respected the principle of cost balance. However, with the amendments, we have proposed redistribution of some of the cases from the so-called left items to items that preserve or improve investment areas that allow for more dynamic development. Unfortunately, you have rejected these proposals by the coalition Members. I also object to the proposal of the Law on the implementation of the budget because you have removed our amendment from the hearing, and most likely because you did not want to open the debate about allowing, or demanding, the country to pay its orders, its investments within the 30-day payment period. This is the debate that this coalition didn't want. However, I know and you know that the country is the biggest investor, that the country is the one that collects money from public funds, and because it is also a contracting authority, it is right for those who carry out these public contracts to ensure payment of what the State has ordered. And the 30-day deadline is in a situation where this spasm is still extremely present, especially because the banking system is not working because the banking system draws money from the economy and we also implement it through the balance sheet of the bank budget. We note that this banking system is incapable of carrying out these tasks. That is why I will not support this law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 28. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the break of item 2.a of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons, urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled at date 16. 7 All these amendments have been tabled by the SDS Group of Members. [[..]] We are moving on to Article 6, and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please, Tinker Bell on behalf of the SDS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u129	We have already mentioned in the debate why this amendment, and everyone else, was proposed. It does not change the content of the law, but rather defines the beneficiaries more clearly, on the one hand and on the other hand, the conditions under which these beneficiaries can access or enter the guarantee scheme. The explanation was that what we are proposing is unconstitutional or discriminatory, since we exclude foreigners from the scheme with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. And this is actually the only substantive matter that we bring into this marriage with the amendment. If that were true, then this provision, as you propose, is unconstitutional and discriminatory also because you have exempted 65,000 natural persons in the Republic of Slovenia. All independent entrepreneurs are natural persons and are not in this law. What you are now proposing is that, in addition to taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, this part of the law, and in my opinion, the greatest aid and the greatest impact that this law will obviously have, will have on this segment of the population, we know what it is, it is the so-called deleted. It is amazing how you failed in this marriage to avoid submitting to yourself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Dear colleague Chernač, you're polizing again. You're re-arranged with the other side, you're referring to the other side, and I'm asking you not to argue with those you think will vote differently than you think. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Well, you'll be surprised, distinguished president. I thank you for this warning, but this time I really said a little too much. But I just wanted to explain why we tabled this amendment. In all others, the intention of this amendment is that the law will be easier to implement and that is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We fear that the good intentions that the drafter has intended to bring into law will be eliminated because those who are supposed to implement this law will simply not be able to implement it successfully, given the fact that Article 6 is now written, and I will not be surprised if the amendment of this law comes to the National Assembly in a short time, unless the amendment is adopted. In short, the amendment follows only a clearer dictatorship with the aim of more effective enforcement of this law, on the other hand, it devotes its concern to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because elsewhere, in the residential area, it is, for example, access to non-profit housing, that this accessibility is guaranteed only to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and there is nothing wrong with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment to Article 6 for various reasons. Because it is clearer because it clearly defines in paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) and 2 (a), (b) and (c) and in Articles 3 and 4 the facts which must be in force in the law in Article 6. The essential decision for and I also ask colleagues and colleagues to reconsider is the first paragraph of the amendment to Article 6 which is finally fair and clear, which states: "The guarantees under this law may be given to banks for obligations under the loans of natural persons who are citizens and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia on the date of the application for credit under this Act, with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia." That is fair, that is the essence of this amendment, and if we are Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and if we are Slovenian and Slovenian, we will have to tell the amendment to Article 6 for moral reasons, regardless of who wrote it. And we will do so in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to Article 7 and to the decision on the SDS amendment to Article 7. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 7 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 8. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group No? [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u135	To save us all some time together, Mr President, given that they were not the previous amendments, these two are next, 8th and 12th, irrelevant so that we are left with only 14 more articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. That's exactly what I'm asking jobs to do right now, because they didn't tell me. Your position is correct. So, paragraphs 8 and 12 - the vote is irrelevant, so we will not vote on it. We are moving on to Article 14 and to the decision on the amendment of the SDS to Article 14. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Franguez?Oh, my God! Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my business. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u139	No, no, no. In my own name. I've made it clear before.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u140	I'm very sorry, Mr. Frangež. There is no explanation for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Vote explanation, Mr. Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe that because it's still the last act before we all go on a well-deserved vacation together, I think this marriage deserves a few words. I am pleased that the government has come to the National Assembly with this innovative idea. This is also the first such example within the European Union that we want to help the population in this way. It's two important categories of the population. On the one hand, those who have lost their jobs and are facing the burden of repayment of loans from the time they were still employed and, on the other hand, for young people, they are generally employed for a certain period of time, allowing them access to funding sources through this guarantee. This last part of this law is not only an anti-crisis measure, but it is a measure which I expect to be implemented even in the time when the crisis is over. I expect to see this law again this year when we talk about its validity in 2010. I think it's an extraordinary acquisition for the population. Especially for fixed-term employees and those among young people. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Pojbich. Although we're in the voting phase, let's say I give you a procedural one. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u143	Mr President, I think it is right that you have allowed me procedurally for one reason. I can't help but warn you that you're holding a meeting very biasedly. Yesterday or when I wanted the word and when I applied in time for the debate on behalf of the Member of Parliament, you did not allow me to do so. You suspended the session here today twice, when the vote was already taking place. I therefore ask you, Mr President, not to make these differences in Parliament. If you do not like to have a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group or a Member or a Member of Parliament present himself, then this is your problem. You are here in this National Assembly to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and at least what you would expect of you is that you do so and do so in the interest of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u144	I gave my word because I knew exactly what you were going to say. However, I must say the following, if I noticed you sufficiently early yesterday, I would have also suspended the vote. I didn't see you. That's what happens, and that's it. There is no debate on that. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, peace in the hall. We are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u145	In the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I regret, of course, that the amendments we have proposed have not been accepted. I also regret that, some two months ago, there was no willingness to adopt a law similar to the one we proposed and rejected by the National Assembly in May. What big innovations [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u146	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u147	This law is not summarised; it is somehow what we proposed in the framework of the measures proposed to the National Assembly, which were considered at the May Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. [[...]] Nevertheless, I think it would be a mistake if I didn't support this marriage. That is why I will support it because, despite the fact that the effects will be significantly smaller than they would be, if these amendments were adopted, and despite the fact that one part of the effects will move outside the domain of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not good or bad, according to our assessment. Although there are no natural persons in the law, 65,000 natural persons, independent entrepreneurs, despite all these negative circumstances, although the law in Article 6 is bound by itself and extremely confusing, it will be very difficult to implement it, I think it is right that we should at least start after six months and that this government will at least take part in the implementation of what it should have started to do there at the end of last year at the beginning of this year. And it is better to accept something that is bad, incomplete, because it can still be fixed, than not to accept anything. For this reason, I will, of course, despite all these concerns, which are quite a few, also my colleagues and colleagues have similar concerns, so it has been difficult to convince them to support this law, but we will all support it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, for 75, for 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 17. Seven. 2009 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. I note that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Happy Friend, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party, Jožef Jerovšek, on behalf of the Group of Members. First of all, Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. We certainly support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party because it makes sense, but we would also like to stress the view that, otherwise, we can positively assess the efforts of Minister Aleš Zalar to in some way limit payments to bankruptcy administrators who in our opinion are not bankruptcy administrators at all, these are undertakers, vultures, those are the people who actually enjoy the mountain and give priority to pay off workers who have earned the salary, and that is not right for the Ministry to overlook. In my opinion and in the conviction of the Slovenian National Party, the order should be changed and the law of the maritime code introduced, because there, if the ship is sinking, the captain is the last of the ship. Here we can read, the judge awarded the bankruptcy manager €608,000 in two days. It is no coincidence that courts are still working very intensively today, perhaps at this point in time, that prize decisions are being printed in order. Let me mention just two such conclusions, say, Elan Begunje, which we have already paid from the budget, the bankruptcy manager receives EUR 233,000. If we look at the Vrchnik leather industry, the workers are nothing, and the bankruptcy manager is as much as 189 thousand euros. Shame. If we look at this second mess, let's say in Videm, Krk's bankruptcy manager Mr Branko Pogorevc got the record 416 thousand euros, while workers only got 15% of what they deserved. This should be prevented by the Minister in this law, which he passed on the parliamentary bench, but not by a mere restriction that is not respected. He himself notes that the courts do not respect his decision and that they also despise the views of the Government. And again and again we face the fact that ministers and the Prime Minister themselves are powerless. Let's just remember the Christmas tree, the 13th salary in the state company, when Mr Pahor here tells us about the pay phone, they won't pay a hundred percent in this company, and that's what happened. It was a payoff. What does our government do then? I think it even helps. Where are the bankruptcy managers? Where are the bankruptcy Senate? Are they working with their hand in hand? How can someone earn money, this is a pigsty, €608,000 just because they handled administrative technical matters at the funeral of the company, the undertaker. Have the undertaker get 608,000 euros. Of course, this law is irrelevant if we do not change the order of payments. On the other hand, we have Mura. Today my colleague expresses his body language [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The amendment we have tabled will, however, cause the Minister to no longer be able to make excuses that he does not know what is happening with regard to his department and its responsibility. In fact, this excuse that you didn't know what was going to happen [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u152	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u153	What a robbery of bankruptcy would occur by bankruptcy managers, how to harm creditors and workers who have claims there [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u154	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u155	There will be bankruptcy administrators across the courts, and this excuse simply does not hold up. [[...]] There are increasing signs that it has been carefully coordinated as to how this will be done. For we have warned in the adoption of the law, the first novel of the law, that what is now done should be done. The possibility was in the law that entered into force 1. 10. provided for this possibility to be maximised, the Minister already intervened in the tariff in December, but not in this way, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u156	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Unfortunately, so far he's been dealing with changes to the Penal Code because he wanted to prove he wasn't good. [[...]] The Constitutional Court proved to him that the novelties were unnecessary. That the minister would not work for them in the future work of Sisyphus with unnecessary tasks, but that they would finally start thinking about the workers, the creditors in the bankruptcy proposals, we also hope that these warnings will come from the Supreme Court. Excuse me, once again, I'm warning you, you didn't know what was going on, but they were unjustifiable, they were depressed, they knew exactly what was going on. And dedicated bankruptcy managers, who are in the case of Elana Andrej Marinc over EUR 300,000, in the case of the IUV Vrhnnik around EUR 200,000, Mrs Toševa and other such names that are linked to the regime, and this, in our opinion, was a great degree of coordination in the country, how to cope in such a cruel way with the bankruptcy mass belonging to workers and creditors. And we hope that something like this never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're voting. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Explanation of the vote in its own name Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u159	I will support the amendment because I believe, even if the last vote is always a good forecast in the future and that there will be more such amendments in the autumn part of the session and beyond and that we will be able to cooperate constructively. So there's new evidence that it's not just rejection, and that's why I'm going to support this amendment, because I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-17-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. You've also explained your voice on my behalf. Thank you very much. So, I'm going to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not, because we were 77 for it and no one was against it. Does anyone want me to ask you a formal question? He doesn't want to. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Wait a minute. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly to adopt further the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the Financial Action Act in insolvency proceedings and forcible termination submitted to the National Council for its consideration is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 2. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I wish you a pleasant vacation and remind you that all the things you have - computers, notes and similar things, you should clear the hall. Thank you very much.
