ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Radovan Žerjav, Damjan Perne and Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem. I invited the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic to the 3rd item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 17 February 2009. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item and for the extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. The orange light must burn on the right side of the card inserted. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Mr. Bojan Kontic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows me to propose that the items be amended and that the present point 2 and point 2 of the present point be first considered under point 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. You heard the procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 5. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] This procedural proposal has been adopted. Since I was informed that an additional amendment would be tabled, I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly for half an hour and continuing the meeting of the assembly at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you to understand. I think we need another 10 minutes to multiply the amendment that's already signed and get it on the bench. Ten more minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u5	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a decision on the non-recognition of the provisions of the Republic of Croatia, which violates the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decision was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jakob Presectnik. I give the text to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jakob Preseknik, for a further explanation of the draft decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Respectable all others present! On behalf of the Group of Members, we have proposed a decision and a call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We propose that, in accordance with our competence and on the basis of the constitutional and legal provisions imposing this duty on us, Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, by adopting a decision, we clearly and unequivocally take a position to protect vital Slovenian interests. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty must be made clear that, by ratifying the accession treaty, Slovenia does not accept any prejudgment of the border by Croatia, and thus indirectly does not recognise any Croatian documentation that might prejudic the border between the countries. Finally, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in Croatia's accession documentation concerning NATO, we have observed at least some content at issue, which means that the borders between the countries are prejudiced. The National Assembly must be consistent and attentive to such content, whether it is Croatian documentation relating to its accession to the European Union or to NATO. The Committee on Foreign Policy revised the initial proposal for proposed positions or a decision tabled by Members of the Slovenian People's Party or group of Members. The main purpose of the meeting is to ensure that the National Assembly, by adopting its decision, protects Slovenian interests and, of course, remains the same. Again, despite Slovenia's persistent efforts and the many proposals submitted by Slovenia to resolve this issue, the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia has not yet been definitively and unanimously established or established. We also note that, at the time of independence, despite our protests, the Republic of Croatia has committed a number of unilateral acts and has adopted legal acts that change the territorial status quo on the day of independence, thus trying to prejudge the resolution of the border issue. By adopting a decision on the protection of Slovenian interests on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty in the National Assembly, Slovenia will finally adopt a position to reject all attempts to violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and to change the situation on land and sea on 25 June 1991, to which the State has committed itself on the occasion of its independence and later by signing the Joint Brionic Declaration signed on 10 June 2005. On behalf of the State, the National Assembly must take care of territorial integrity, inviolability and security in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is right that the National Assembly will finally carry out its task. Slovenia supports Croatia's entry into NATO, which was confirmed by the National Assembly with a large majority. That is why we are no longer talking about whether Slovenia supports Croatia's entry into NATO, which the National Assembly has confirmed with a large majority. That is why we are no longer talking about whether Slovenia supports Croatia's accession to NATO, but we are talking about what Slovenian territory is on land and sea. Although the apparent issue of the border and the issue of ratification are not linked, the non-acceptance of the proposal for a decision on the protection of Slovenian interests on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty may have adverse consequences for Slovenia, which may not be remedied later. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we propose the adoption of a supplementary decision on the protection of Slovenian interests when the Republic of Croatia accedes to the North Atlantic Treaty. In all the parliamentary groups, we have found a negotiated solution with the Government, which I thank all for, and on behalf of the proposer, I believe there is no reason to continue the proceedings concerning the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Ivo Wigel, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. President! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Foreign Minister, members of the Government! On the basis of Articles 42, 112 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy has prepared a report on a proposal for a decision on non-recognition of the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr President, on behalf of the proposer, explained extensively the Slovenian People's Party's initiative to adopt a position, which would mean that Slovenia, at the time when the National Assembly ratified the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to NATO, would protect its vital national interests by adopting a special document affirming, on the one hand, our goodwill and readiness to support Croatia in joining Euro-Atlantic integration, and on the other hand, that the practice of unilateral measures, especially when it comes to border issues, would be unacceptable for Slovenia, and that such unilateral moves could not be a basis in the process when it comes to the final question of the border issue. Although membership in relation to NATO and the procedure for the admission of a new candidate is not the same as the admission of a new member to the European Union, it was necessary for the members of the Committee to adopt, first by very comprehensive discussion and then by adopting a supplementary proposal for a decision on the protection of Slovenian interests when the Republic of Croatia accedes to the North Atlantic Treaty, a document which has taken a meaningfully-committed initiative as expressed in the initial proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. However, the debate also expressed the view that this initial proposal should be supplemented or amended on the basis of the views expressed by individual parliamentary groups. It also seems necessary and appropriate to point out that this document was created in a spirit of awareness of the responsibilities that the National Assembly and its working bodies have towards national interests and the protection of national interests at the moment, including from the point of view of preparing some binding bases for the moment when the country will either be at bilateral level, or by means of mediation or assistance from a third party at any other forum looking for a permanent solution to open issues. The Committee adopted the attached conclusions with the unanimous support of all members and thus prepared the conditions for me to inform you of this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u10	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! If and I hope that this high house will today adopt complementary positions, supported by the vast majority of the parliamentary groups and the call for a referendum on Croatia's entry into NATO, then Slovenia has strengthened its negotiating power to achieve our national interests, which are linked to the fair establishment of the border between Slovenia and Croatia. When last week the National Assembly, with three quarters of the votes of all Members and Members, supported the protocol on Croatia's entry into NATO, opened a political issue that, at first sight, is not directly related. And who could say that, because of this, the National Assembly, the Government, the parties, the politicians do not have to exchange opinions and seek a reasonable compromise that would eliminate the differences between us on eligibility. This would certainly be a path, but a path that would lead in the wrong direction and weaken our international situation, our credibility and our power to achieve the interests and goals that we have set ourselves in our domestic and foreign policies. This agreement, which has been reached, is a reasonable agreement. In particular, I welcome him because I believe that he has a clearer position on the position of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to finding a solution to the final determination of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Despite this conclusion, whoever is in charge of the negotiations will not be able to go. This decision will have to be taken into account. Slovenian policy was the previous one and this week a major test. I think we need to rediscover: a small country like us can achieve its objectives in foreign policy only if we are united enough if we play as a representative. It's always not easy to come to common ground. And differences in terms of foreign policy are just as legitimate as differences in terms of all other issues. Only that this is about decisions related to our long-term interests. What wrong choices in domestic policy can be changed in a year or two. Wrong decisions in foreign policy can be irreparable harm to our national interests. Today, the National Assembly, if it supports the positions proposed, will not only avoid the danger of going on the wrong path but will take the right path. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore welcomes this reasonable compromise. He thinks we've joined forces at the right time and reached the right solution. And let me finally say that it is likely that on this issue and with others who will be associated with Slovenia's long-term interests that the united can win and the divided can only be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposal for a decision. Mr Ivo Wigel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues! President, Mr. President of the Government! The Zares Group will support the views and expresses its satisfaction that a broad consensus has been reached on the drafting of this amendment. We also believe that it is important that we express not only the support of Croatia and that we also express our support for actually strengthening collective security in the region bordering on our own. But I would also say that we also express some sense of what our public expects of us. I think it is right that the National Assembly also responds to the critical public, which is somehow saturated with the problem of disclosing this issue and also wants a single and clear position from the National Assembly. I therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, hereby declare that we will support the position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, honourable President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will also support this, as we say, reasonable agreement, although it is not a good one. We will support it in order to do everything we can to avoid a referendum that would undermine the reputation of our country in the international public. And that's what we have ahead of us today. The problem is that such a proposal is understood by us that it does not prejudge anything and that those blinds that are not listed remain an unresolved issue. Of course - this is what we think, and this is what the motioner writes in his explanation. The big question is if they think the same on the other side of the border, where there will be at least a few extremists who will say: "The ten others that are not listed are the belts, is solved. That's ours. That's what we're going to negotiate if we're going to." I am so afraid that it may have such a complementary proposal as to have an impact on us for what we do and on the other hand. But, as it is said, because this is the compromise that has been reached with the broadest agreement, it would be a mistake if we did not join this broadest agreement and thus beat the power out of the hands of those who rape our country with a proposal for a referendum and put the reputation of such or other partial interests on the line of our citizens at stake. We will support this in the hope that the referendum will not. But once in a while, there is no guarantee that this will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Good day to you all. We will not support this decision in the Slovenian National Party! The decision is bad and binds only the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and no one else. Croats can whistle at it peacefully. There's no commitment to involve them in everything. Furthermore, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that the decision fully sums up the positions that the Government has already advocated in solving this border issue, I do not know how we can say that the Government "has already taken such positions". And I would like to know who, after the adoption of this decision, will hope to tell the Croats to calm down those containers at the Sečovje crossing and put them where that border was - the administrative border between the two republics on the day of 25. 6. 1991?Oh, my God! I would like to see this native in the Slovenian government who will say so not just do so. As far as the amendments are concerned, I must admit I haven't seen such bad amendments in a long time. Here we have an amendment signed by all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party, which says that in the end the text is added: "...when the Slovenian authorities, inter alia, exercised powers in the hamlets on the left bank of Dragonje..." and so on. This means that our authorities have also exercised various powers, only in the hamlets listed here. It should be written: "...when the Slovenian authorities exercised their powers, including in the hamlets..." and then they listed them. I think we have a Justice Minister here who knows how important it is to read such documents in the right way. And in the right way they'll be read by Croats and they'll say, "...fine, you've been exercising some powers, some of them, some of them different, where you wrote them, everything else is a solved matter." However, it is the negotiation and conclusion of both border commissions, both governments, for at least 14 questionable positions. They're talking about the 14th commission. More of these questionable positions are essential. And what's going to happen to that? Nothing. All together, because you don't know history, it would make sense to say something else about one similar, rotten compromise made by Chamberlain and the Daladiev in Munich when Hitler invited them to the talks and told them, "Just give me Sudetenland and it will be all peaceful and there will be no war." The only two idiots who believed that were Daladier and Chamberlain. And when they arrived when Chamberlain arrived in London from the plane, he said that peace was saved. Of course he was saved, for a few months. Also here, what's solved by these papers? Nothing at all. Nothing at all. As for Hitler, we know his lies. As far as Sanader is concerned, we can contact members of the Washington Times on 9. 2. writes of Sanader: "Sanader is also an irreparable liar, his allies are hopelessly trying to discredit the regime's criticisms especially of those in the West." It's a signed article. Jeffrey Kuhner signed it. In the Washington Times, not in the News or in Indirect or whatever it's called. A serious article has been written about this matter. But we'll be good, we'll be nice, we'll let the Croats slap us all. Unfortunately, they're slapping us on the left and right faces. I don't know what else we're gonna set them up to slap us. And I don't know what we're doing here. And there's another thing. First, the State Council disappeared in this intense fight for the Slovenian homeland. He took five minutes of fame, he behaved foolishly on Croatian television, discredited himself with ignorance of historical facts, and disappeared because of such or other demands of his political party. Then came the likeness with that institution on June 25th, which was bushes, bushes, bushes. Finally, when we get the documents we see that the signatures were not submitted by 25 June or Marjan Podobnik but by the Party of the Slovenian People. And the Squire is gone. After all, we are used to these games, and we must not forget that Mr. Podobnik was once Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, but he did nothing to solve the problems. We must not forget that the Slovenian People's Party was in government when it was adopted in Bucharest that Croatia could accede to the NATO Pact, but there was also nothing by the Slovenian People's Party at that time, there was silence because they were in the government. But now it is necessary to collect political points in order to show up before Slovenian voters how good we are and how we fight for the Slovenian people!? Please! It is true that Slovenian voters, I would say, have a very short memory. Maybe three days, usually shorter but still. That's why we won't support any of this. I think that's a bad thing to do. He's got no weight. He's not binding anyone! It obliges us here to say to each other, "Oh, we've made a really good decision, Mother, we've done well." Croatia will continue to bully Slovenian tourists on the border to go to Croatia to sea. And we're gonna kick each other's ass how good we were, how fantasticly we got this thing done. The whole of Croatia will laugh at us as it already laughs at us. By the time Sanader thought that Croatia was already in NATO, he was no longer responding to the calls of our Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, because he thought what I cared about, we were already in there, and, by the way, like Sanader, he used to say "fuck him". And that's exactly how it happened. Only when he saw that there was a complication in the National Assembly was he again available on the phone and now he will meet immediately. I don't know why we should even meet him. After all, we always get a slap from the Croats. Read Croatian officers, watch TV. Of course, unfortunately they are always assisted by some professors of the Faculty of Law from Maribor, some Mrs. Ninety-seven. We know who was "nine" or "ten" in Slovenian literature, and now I will not go into literary analysis. But the fact is, this man, I don't know how he can be a professor in law school, in Slovenian law school, when he spits on Slovenia like that. And at some point in the area of Čakovac, he speaks on Croatian television that he is not understood by Slovenians or Croats. Otherwise, it is difficult to understand what he was going to say, except that, in my opinion, he wanted to harm Slovenia; the other was not understood. But it is true that he took care of the crazy impression with his orange vest. I deliberately set out to debate this man to show all the paradox, all the nonsense, all the nonsense of our conduct. It's like fear: there's nothing about him, but inside he's been wooing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you again! Since I can't argue with my predecessor, I won't. I will only say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have proposed the adoption of a decision already on the ratification of Croatia's accession to NATO and later the re-examination of the request for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy simply because we want to protect the fundamental Slovenian national interests. This is: to protect territorial integrity on land and sea and to preserve Slovenia's access to the open sea and to prevent unilateral prejudice of the border with Croatia's accession documents. At the time of the review of the association Croatian documentation, we found that it contains some points of dispute which prejudge the border between Slovenia and Croatia. Let me point out immediately in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members. If the National Assembly had adopted in due time a resolution on the border with Croatia, which is still in the process and had been tabled by Members of the SLS for the third time in ten years, or any other similar document in which we would have drawn up views and starting points on this issue, we would not have been in this situation and would not have decided on it in time, in the eyes of all the international public, since this issue has been open since independence. And since his independence, the National Assembly has failed or has been able to shoulder its responsibilities. And a second time. We support Croatia's entry into both NATO and EU but not unconditionally, not at any price and at the expense of Slovenian territory and sea. Prejudice of the border by Croatia is very damaging to Slovenia. Furthermore, as I have already said publicly, today we have again proposed to supplement the decision adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy, with a clear definition of what the state of Slovenia means on 25 June 1991. The National Assembly must take responsibility to protect the Slovenian territory, which we have been alerting in the SLS for many years. We must not avoid such a simple conclusion in the National Assembly. We will simply write down the actual state of affairs and the fact that it was in force on the day of independence 25. 6. In 1991, when Slovenia actually exercised its powers, its sovereignty throughout the Gulf of Piran, it had territorial contact with the open sea and Slovenia belonged to many, for Croatia disputed, territories. We can't doubt it. We need to write down our own starting point and apply ourselves in bilateral talks and discussions and in the event of possible proceedings before international bodies. Members, we have proposed a conclusion and a call for an extraordinary meeting to protect the interests of our country, which we ultimately owe and that is our task. However, the additional argument for admission has, of course, been supplemented by the fact that we expect that the candidates for collecting signatures for the referendum are willing to withdraw if the National Assembly has more clearly defined their position on what State 25 means. 6., with these points. The Republic of Croatia has committed a number of unilateral acts and has adopted legal acts to amend the territorial status quo on the day of independence and thus seeks to prejudge the resolution of the border issue. We are therefore convinced that, in order to protect Slovenian interests, we must adopt the position or decision of the National Assembly when the Republic of Croatia accedes to the North Atlantic Treaty. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support a decision that will ensure what we have been advocating for a decade. We propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that it today overcomes its unjustified fear and proves its responsibility and protects the fundamental Slovenian national interests after the protection of the territory and the sea and preserves Slovenia's access to the open sea. Once again, we welcome the joint agreement and we also withdraw our amendment proposal, which we tabled this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Parliamentary Club, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u20	Dearly beloved, it has already been said that the National Assembly is rehearsing and accepting something that is not necessary is not necessary, it is unlikely that it can be of no use. It is particularly important that the National Assembly, with the majority of which has adopted the Instrument for the Ratification of the Protocol, guarantees to the Slovenian public that it has taken a very responsible approach to the adoption of an important act such as the Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty. The fact is, everyone knows that what was 25. 6. 1991 for the benefit of Slovenia or the actual situation, is still valid today and will be valid until the final arrangements. The final arrangements will be clear when the will on both sides is to ensure that both borders and other arrangements are made. I'm sure the National Assembly is back on trial, and that worries me. It is not possible for the National Assembly to perform weekly examinations and the hostage to be the opposition, to be a group of citizens, to be anyone else. Fifty-five votes of Members and Members of the National Assembly are not enough to trust that we are all working for the good of this Slovenia. And I say that ratification of this protocol was in favour of Slovenia. We have not given anything to Croatia or Albania in the second case when we ratified the Treaty with them, but we have simply taken advantage of the right that we have also invited these two countries into a group with the same values, which shares the same values. It is therefore worrisome if, for any question that may not be equally assessed for someone or for a group, it is not the same as to whether it is positive or negative, or whether it is anything else, we are going to do so-called corrective examinations. I'm sure it's not good for this democracy and with Slovenian democracy, I'll just say it, not to the coalition, don't write it well. Coalitions change one way or another from day to day, or every four years, as it is. Therefore, it is neither necessary nor possible to oppose these conclusions. Make it happen. As it is said, I do not believe that they will benefit our interests in terms of better starting points for agreements with Croats, nor will this contribute to the international reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. On the contrary. Everyone's wondering what we're doing. It would be time for us to consider the resolution announced by the Government before the time, the Foreign Ministry, even two of them to be written, and to try to address these issues comprehensively, and the State Assembly should also discuss and adopt final communications. But when we do things quickly, ad hoc, there's something to be done. It has already been said today that someone can understand these conclusions differently, that for other things that are not mentioned in these conclusions, there is nothing, or that we are only concerned with what we write here. Of course, I go back to my basic idea that I believe that both the Government, all Members and Members, and others who are dealing with the issue of relations with Croatia or regulating the border issue and closing these issues, that we still have a clear idea of what Slovenia has, what it has and what it will have. So, as we say, we will support these conclusions. However, we do not create illusions that this will contribute to any positive story in the future. At the same time, however, we regret that the National Assembly revolves around so-called correctional examinations and cannot be proud of those who hold the National Assembly hostage from week to week.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are still convinced that the decision that we are considering and deciding on today would not be necessary. In a formal sense, it is not really clear what its purpose is and what it means. It is also questionable in relation to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out. It is clear, however, that it is important that one parliamentary group, through its adoption, conditions its withdrawal from the call for a referendum on the implementation of the Act ratifying the Protocol on Croatia's Accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. In this situation, the actual implementation of the referendum would be the worst that can be compared to ours. This would mean that only Slovenia of 26 countries has not ratified this Protocol and thus prevented Croatia from being declared a member of NATO at the summit on 3 and 4 April in Strasbourg and Koel at the 60th anniversary of this defence relationship, together with Albania, and could not participate fully at this summit. It is important to keep an eye on the fact that Slovenia, by preventing Croatia from entering NATO now, has actually deteriorated its position and reputation both in NATO and in the wider international community. Moreover, it is in the Slovenian national interest that the defence alliance continues to spread to the south-east of Europe or the Western Balkans, which will contribute to greater stability of this part of Europe and also to our defence capacity and security. It is also a greater guarantee of our economic participation in the neighborhood, which is by no means irrelevant. It is also important that Croatia will have to compare the rules and values on which it is based with its NATO membership. All of this is in our interest and also in our favor. Secondly, the question is, of course, whether, when and if we adopt the decision under consideration, we will actually deter the initiators of the referendum from further procedures for the implementation of this referendum. Can we count on their assurance that, under the condition of the adoption of this decision, they will withdraw from the referendum? We want them to have the honor to keep their word. That is why we will adopt the proposed and amended decision in the Group of Social Democrats in particular and only to prevent, if possible, a referendum on the protocol for Croatia's accession to NATO. We hope that this will contribute to the credibility of our country, especially in the part where we oppose the opening and closing of certain chapters when Croatia enters the European Union, where Croatia is actually trying to prejudge the state border between the two countries and thus abuse the integration process into the European Union. And where it is logically responsible and credible that Slovenia does the same. If Slovenia were to do the same in relation to Croatia with regard to its accession to NATO, it would lose its reputation in the international community to a large extent. And we certainly want to prevent that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u24	Your Honor! A very nice greeting for everyone, the name of the SDS. Did you notice that we could combine the two next items of the agenda today? What we are dealing with and what follows, if in the ruling coalition we hope to name things with the right name and then such a common point could be an attempt to correct the harmful consequences for Slovenia caused by diverting the attention of the ruling coalition from its inability to respond adequately and in a timely manner to the challenges of the financial crisis, to the search for an external enemy. This is the content of what we are really facing today. The old Slovenian proverb says the donkey only goes on ice once, but today it is in the same matter, under the Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty, the ruling coalition for the second time on the midterm. Ladies and gentlemen, this second exam is coming too late. I will tell you this firsthand, because you all probably know that I am the head of the Slovenian delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and I only regret very, very much that none of the ruling coalition has been able to attend the meeting that took place this weekend. As far as I know, one of the last moments was canceled. Because you could face what was going on there. Everything was still quite right, including understanding Slovenia, to the information that came on Monday, when the joint meeting of NATO's executive and parliamentary work, held only once a year in Brussels, was held personally by Japp de Hoop Scheffer. This information was that, after meeting when she took a break, the ruling coalition rejected the compromise amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party and, if it had not already caused, at least gave the candidates an alibi to collect signatures for the referendum to continue their procedure. No one, but I'm telling you, there was no one who could find one good word for Slovenia. The ambassador and I did everything we could to explain all the circumstances in order to explain all the history, but you know, even those who might be looking at it only through the NATO perspective would be really surprised here. This thing goes beyond Nate's frames. I'll tell you that firsthand. Look, our biggest allies within the European Union, when we spoke with either their ambassadors or with the heads of delegations, said something like this: "Listen, you are getting us into trouble to support you when it comes to your vital interests, where we want to support you in the things that touch the European Union. Because for this thing, for the inclusion of Croatia, we agreed together, we gave her an invitation together many months ago. And how now that there's no new information, no new charter, no new fact, and now you're taking it like this?" That was the problem. And, ladies and gentlemen, the great damage that has been caused by this will no longer be compensated. Especially because the government or the ruling coalition had made a serious mistake weeks ago, which it has now upgraded. Do you know which one? I was very surprised when some ambassadors sent me or explained that they had even received official letters from Slovenia, by the Government, as information where they were informed that Slovenia had been, I quote: "I have blocked Croatia on so many and so many issues." You know, this is a rumor that Europe accepts as an enemy, which it rejects, which it does not accept. And whoever sent this abroad, even in the English text, made a huge mistake. The fact that this is said in Slovenia may really bring additional political points to someone, but the only wise thing to do abroad would be to explain things by rejecting the principle of justice once and for all. This is a rumor that Europe understands. And this is a rumor that you're going to get extra allies without them in the modern world. And now this tactical error, which has, unfortunately, already been made, which is even of a strategic nature, because it uses a rumor, once again, I say, which Europe does not accept, is now being upgraded. And this damage will be extremely difficult to repair. Now that this is a diversion of attention and that it was a game, perhaps another element that some have not noticed. Look. Since the introduction of this law into the parliamentary procedure, no less than 45 days have passed since it was first discussed at the PSC meeting. This is, by the way, 10 days longer than it would take to collect signatures. At that time, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy found the time to go to Belgrade to promise compensation to the deleted. However, he did not find time to call a meeting of the committee immediately and to initiate procedures in time so that they would not eventually be in time, which would then cause at least misunderstanding with our potential allies and have adverse consequences for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen. Those in the ruling coalition who smile at this should experience it on their own. And please, call abroad for a moment and you will see what the actual opinion of this event is about with us. The vote today will probably not be difficult. It is about adopting a text that will be compromiseable and will allow this story to end today. Because the moment is extremely sensitive. It is also sensitive because we are in the period when the 60-year-old NATO relationship is celebrated and various possible ways are being weighed, the different concepts that the relationship will have in place in the coming period. And that's why things are so much more under the radar. Now, just for the end, maybe even a thought. I only hope that the vote will show that no one has a fig in his pocket and that the text will actually be supported that will allow the ratification of Croatia's entry into NATO to continue smoothly and that in this way Slovenia will disappear as "weak boys" from the world scene. You will not believe this, but even this expression was actually used by one of the representatives of the European Union in a discussion at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly when it came to Slovenia. Then I hope you understand how very harmful the consequences have been. Just because it did not want to listen to the SDS arguments presented by President Janez Janša on Monday, where it was very clearly stated that it was significantly less important to take what decision is taken than that the procedure for Croatia's involvement in NATO continued to avoid harmful consequences for Slovenia. Unfortunately, you have thoughtfully, once again, taken a break, blocked the matter, and how devastating it has been for the European Union, in Brussels, after the summit of NATO, and write this down to yourself, ladies and gentlemen. And it doesn't matter whether you made that tactical mistake of using the wrong rumor when it comes to abroad, where you should stress the element of justice that benefits us, and this non-vote of the compromise amendment on Monday, made it out of political arrogance or ignorance. But the responsibility for the harmful consequences lies with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr President of the Government, the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much for the firsthand information and training I received about who is responsible for something in the National Assembly. I am told about this by individuals who have made the adoption of the law on the ratification and integration of Croatia into NATO conditional on the closure of the 2007 account and have therefore suspended reception or ratification by the Slovenian side for one week. Mr Grimes, calm down. I've listened to you. I suggest you listen, too, because then sometimes you say something stupid because you don't listen, and you answer. But I agree, colleague Anderlich, that this doesn't help much and it doesn't. But I am very interested in how you would explain abroad that ratification was not accepted if I were not prepared for compromise or, as you say, for a correctional examination, and this explains that you were not or obstructed for ratification because the final account for 2007 was not accepted. All of Europe and NATO would probably understand you to the last word you would say. And when we talk about this vote last week, fifty-fifty Members and Members voted in favour of this ratification, before we had to remove all these conditions that were laid down so that we could vote, was expressed or expressed doubts about the documents submitted to the documents for Croatia's entry into the NATO Union. The government has made it possible, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, to look into these documents, and there we can all find that the real problem is not that the maps that have been discussed so much are not. And despite the government's assurances, which it is going to believe - it is because it is the only government that has made very clear Slovenia's position towards Croatia's entry into the European Union. First time. That is why it is even more important to believe that Croatia's accession to NATO has nothing to do with regulating relations and solving the problems or complications that we have and have been solving for many years. But well, that's the past, we're talking about conclusions today. About conclusions that I don't think are even necessary. But they are needed because they are conditioned again. The adoption of these conclusions is conditional on the fact that, in this case, there may be no signatures to be collected below for the referendum. And by the assurances of at least one party, we've heard that it will be true, even though I don't believe it. I still think that today we will adopt conclusions, including the amendment we have tabled, and will end up collecting signatures for the referendum. Because I do not believe that no one will jump into the space that Mr Marjan Podobnik emptied with today's announcement. And I think things are going to move on. Of course, that's not good. And in this case, we'll definitely miss our hands. Of course, then we could say in the style of one of the discussers, "Well, we did, and we made it impossible for them to enter NATO." But what we're going to get out of this is the next question. What does this mean for the credibility of our country? What does this mean for negotiators who are very serious negotiating and negotiating the mediation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia? What are our starting points? Will that make them better or worse? And it's important there that we have arguments, and it's important there that we also insist on these arguments. With regard to NATO, it is now about, if I use the illustration, as follows: we have decided unanimously to invite someone between us, to visit, receive, and in the meantime we will simply change our minds. And when he rings the doorbell, we don't call him again, and we won't let him come in. It's not real and it's not good for the credibility of our country. As I said, I would be very happy if today's adoption of the amendment and these conclusions would also mean that the signatures for the referendum are no longer being collected. Because otherwise, we will be listening to impatient statements in the next month and for a few days. Listened to hatred, both on the one side of the border, the Slovenian-Croatian border. That doesn't mean anything good. But, as I said, I don't hope too much that we'll be successful with this action today. Just because I'm more than I'm not sure that some people are comfortable with this work that's going on and that they're going to require signatures to be collected further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that the agenda item bears the correct name if, as proposed by Mr Grims, it were too long and too incomprehensible. I'm so sure it's hard for anyone to send anyone to the juvie exam if he didn't make himself mature. I was born in 1974, and I was 17 years old when our country was founded. In short, I didn't have the opportunity to make this part of history. However, I am sure that the task of my generation, if I may say so, which now assumes responsibility for the future of Slovenia, is not the past of Slovenia, nor should it be to regulate the borders of this country. Today we talk a lot about this national interest and it is such a fateful historical moment, feeling somehow, at least I do, and don't mind me if I feel that way because once, when one of you has felt it, I haven't had a chance to feel it, and I explained why. I have nothing to say to a generation of my great-grandfathers. One of my great-grandfathers was in judenburg in the 17th Battalion, the second Master's fighter. In short, they did what they could for this national interest. One of my grandfathers met in May 1945 in Dachau, another with a rifle and a uniform at the Celov railway station. I have nothing to say to my parents' generation after the war, when it created economic and social conditions for Slovenian independence. However, I have much to say to a generation of Slovenian invaders who, in the 18 years, were unable to fight this country or to agree on an internationally recognised southern and eastern border. No generation before that had needed to determine the western limit or the northern limit for so long, and that is very bad. It seems to me that it would be good to ask which country we are handing over/transmit to the next generation if it does not have a certain basic attribute of statehood, in short, if we do not know exactly how and what this country is. And I think that, because of these old sins, we are also destroying Slovenia's certain reputation in international relations in the future. In short, we're poisoning some future relationships. I believe it is the task of this generation to agree on this line. The next generation, both on this side of the border and on the other side of the border, will find it more difficult to agree on everything. They will be more difficult to agree on a common future, because they will have no more common past than this generation has. I myself will support the proposed decision and amendments because I want to preserve the international face of Slovenia and also help the Slovenian negotiators to agree on a border that will be good - for this and also for the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franc Znidaršič - cancels. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Respectable viewers and viewers and those who listen! We all see, and I, personally, am sure that everything we hear and see today is a farce. It's a farce because it's all pre-arranged. Farsa because we paint people. In fact, you all know, except for the Slovenian National Party, that Croatia's decision to go to NATO will stand. The evidence is today's session. Evidence is today's beginning. Evidence is today's agenda shift. The proof is a statement from a native of NATO on TV yesterday, saying, "What if Slovenia doesn't say yes?" The Croats will go. And he gave proof yesterday, with all due respect, Mr. Erjavec, who said: "If Slovenia does not give "yes" to Croatia to join NATO [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u31	Mr. Barovich, time's up. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u32	Nice greeting, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Council of Ministers. I'm on my own first term in the National Assembly. With my work in the Slovenian People's Party, I have been closely following our party's efforts over the past decade to adopt a resolution in which the highest body of democracy in the country, the one with this in the Constitution and legislation, would adopt certain frameworks and also the conditions of goods which our foreign policy, executive power, can then negotiate with the neighbouring country in the field of border regulation between the Republics of Slovenia and Croatia. Unfortunately, it has been a decade, and in all the various coalitions in which we participated, it has not been possible for the National Assembly, the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, to adopt such a resolution in a timely and peaceful manner. We also expressed our support for this approach in the Slovenian People's Party's Party's treatment of Croatia's entry into NATO, but we also wanted to discuss in this house the conditions on which the respected Government has a mandate. In recent months, weeks and also last night, we have received the very clear wisdom of the age of Slovenian politics, the writer of the Slovenian Constitution, who has made it very clear that it is right for Parliament to accept this and that Parliament to bring these frameworks together. And it is a wonder that we do not all have the seriousness and responsibility to accept this and then end this debate together. I will gladly accept these conclusions myself, agree with them and confirm them. At the same time, I can also say, on behalf of my colleagues, that others will do the same, including the president and the leader of the Group of Members has been identified. And we are also assessing that it is right at this time to do so to impose on the Government to speak decisively on border issues and these issues in the context of adapting Croatia and joining the European Commission. Neither do we support the effort for a referendum that Slovenians are supposed to have on the subject of Croatia's entry into NATO. I would also like to have a sense of state in our congregation, which we all refer to today, and to inform the Slovenians, in fact, without too much controversy today, as well as the Croatian parties, that this dictionary, which sometimes sends us 30 kilometers from the border, from the sea, and that Croatian journalists count the population of Koper and Isola, that it does not in some way benefit them in this work. However, we want to make our views very clear, to represent them, and I want the Slovenian government to continue to do so. I am pleased that this will be adopted today. I am also pleased that today almost the entire ministerial assembly is here among us, for this also confirms some responsibility on this issue. At the same time, I also see this as a commitment to their continued efforts on issues that will be present in our foreign policy area in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. In fact, this meeting is today because the ruling coalition was before the time before the decision was taken in this National Assembly to approve the protocol for Croatia's entry into NATO, too much to use any other term and unfortunately not allow the adoption of such a decision as proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. It has proved, and many times, even to individual political parties, that it is not worth being overly arrogant in politics or, if so, it brings you to the brink. And I am pleased that this time the coalition has come to realize this, not because of the conclusion itself, but because of the gathering of the signatures of the initiators, that is constitutional right, so we have written in the Constitution and this is not to be problematic, but I am pleased that the ruling coalition has come to realize that it is necessary, however, to make a decision on paper that will do this or that we will do what Croatia has done for the past eighteen years. Croatia has thus made such decisions on the ground, we or on paper. This time, of course, we'll have it on paper. With this, we will commit the executive branch of the authorities to be able to negotiate and to make clear what our Slovenian views are, regardless of how they look or how others look at ours, that is to say, at our decision. It is about Slovenia taking a sovereign decision in its Parliament and accepting what it, of course, thinks are its views or that they are, therefore, for the protection of Slovenian borders. Some debaters are going, unfortunately, very far back, but I must say for myself that I am very proud of our independents and thank God we had them. It is because of them that today we have a independent Republic of Slovenia, an independent Parliament and, therefore, we can decide our own destiny and even more, we are working together on a European policy in which we are equal members. Unfortunately, even on this road some have lost their lives for this country, as always. However, I am embarrassed and, of course, as a Parliamentary who is already the fourth term in the National Assembly, I am ashamed that the Slovenian Parliament has failed to have such a clear definition regarding the protection of Slovenian interests towards the Republic of Croatia. With no resolution, with no declaration, with no decision. However, as much as I am ashamed, I can only say as one of the 90 Members, it is clear that it is the greatest responsibility that this has not occurred, in any event, on foreign policy and, of course, on the whole government or government coalitions. Whether they're like that or not. I will, of course, support this decision. However, if we had this before Croatia's adoption, i.e. the decision on Croatia's entry into NATO at the table, and we would have already decided on this decision, it would have been my vote for Croatia's entry into NATO, because I made it clear that Croatia is entering European integration and, of course, international, like NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Slovenian policy has been engaged in inter-neighbourly relations since the start of the new government in this mandate. Especially with relations with Croatia. I believe that the Prime Minister of the Government and the Government has always had a fundamental desire to finally move something on the Ljubljana-Zagreb route after so many years. It is this government that has said very clearly and very firmly what it thinks about the approximation of Croatia and the conditions for the approximation of Croatia to the European Union. It laid down the conditions for which the fundamental objective is to protect Slovenia's interests. In short, the efforts of the new government must be absolutely welcomed and I think they are going in the right direction. The problem is therefore not that we deal with Slovenian-Croatian relations. On the contrary. It is right to find solutions that will be in our national interest to ensure what belongs to Slovenia. However, it is obvious that some have a very persistent mix of things that do not have something to do together. So what's the problem? The problem is, some people in this darkness keep a fig in their pocket all the time. At the NATO Summit in Bucharest in April 2008, the Government of Slovenia agreed to the invitation of Albania and Croatia to join NATO. We've heard that before today. From then on, it would be expected, if not the other, at least the consistent position of Slovenia. Any comments or objections should be communicated by Slovenia at that time. More. This National Assembly recently supported the ratification of the Protocol on Croatia's entry into NATO by 75 votes in favour. Parliament has thus shown a clear political will. And it is in this National Assembly that we listen to the words of the already prophetic support of some of the parties for Croatia's entry into NATO. On the other hand, we are witnessing radicalisation of views, referendum initiatives and political blackmail as it has never been. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we all agree on what our interests are and what we want to achieve. No one wants less than Slovenia belongs and for these purposes we are ready to make an effort. As far as the referendum is concerned, no matter who proposes it or the SNS or any other party or association, my position is very clear. I do not think that the referendum is the right way to resolve open issues. If a solution is not able to find a policy, it is unfair to impose such a decision on the shoulders of citizens. So I repeat. We all have the same goal, but there is a very big difference between us, how we do it and how we want to achieve our common goal. It is those who hold figs in their pocket, in front of television cameras and today in this room that are talking again about how Slovenian politics needs to be unified. They say we shouldn't complicate things with procedural complications. Even more - they are concerned about the international reputation of Slovenia. And these same people, at the last meeting of the National Assembly, have gravely abused the procedure, set their own interests and their own reputation before the interests of this country. Your credibility, ladies and gentlemen, after the last meeting of the National Assembly, has gone to a history dump. You were not interested in the interest of Slovenia or the international reputation to which you now refer five before the 12th when messages of concern and serious games with time come from NATO. At the very least, some in this Chamber were interested in the unification of Slovenian politics and in the fact that we need to increase the number of our allies. I have no problem with accepting declarations, declarations, resolutions in the National Assembly, if that will help us. But I am afraid that with what Slovenian policy has been doing these last days, we are only moving away from our common goal. And today, we're talking again in this room about exams. Dear Members and Members. This National Assembly and Slovenian policy cannot be repeated indefinitely. Sooner or later, we'll all cover it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I think it is good that coordination has taken place between the majority of the groups of Members and that this amendment has been tabled almost unanimously, with the exception of one of the Group of Members. The contents of this text are not new or revolutionary. The National Assembly has already said the same thing many times, there are no differences between how Slovenians see the drawn border between Slovenia and Croatia. In the 1990s, the competent committee of the National Assembly adopted a resolution on the integrity of the Gulf of Piran. In many other documents and acts of parliamentary bodies, as well as in government documents, similar formulations as those contained in this amendment continue to appear. There is still a mixed Commission that sets out our view of those disputed points along the border between the countries where the views of the two countries differ. And in the document of this Commission, when the body finishes its work, there will be a substantial number of these points, the territories, rather than in this Decision or in this text, which is now being proposed to supplement the decision of the National Assembly. This will not affect anyone outside of Slovenia in particular or disturb, because this is a well-known fact that we have been talking about for more than a decade. From this point of view, there is no need for us to repeat this. And there's no harm done. So if by adopting this decision we prevent actual damage that could have occurred, if events were to run as they are predicted, then it is, of course, necessary to vote. In this respect, we regret that a similar text was not adopted at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting on Monday. If it had been adopted at that time, this debate would probably not have been necessary here. Half the government is sitting in this room, I think we could be dealing with an economic crisis at the time, and many others could be doing something more useful. But if it's just for a few days, it's not a particular problem, it'll all be forgotten in a while. And from this point of view, the key question now is whether those who, on behalf of the coalition, negotiated with the candidates for the signing of the referendum, have reached an agreement with them, and whether such a decision, as proposed, will prevent the development of events as predicted. Now, if this objective is achieved, then we will all be happy to vote in favour of this decision and to do a useful job in my opinion. But if not, it's a waste of time. So, before the vote, we would like to hear this reply whether an agreement has been reached to withdraw the request for signatures because that is the point of what we are doing. If the procedure continues - the leader of the largest parliamentary group said he believed that - then what we are doing here will have no weight and will be forgotten before the magnetogram of this meeting is written. So I suggest we get an answer to that question. If signatures are collected and the referendum is held, then Slovenia will be in a situation when it is unable to obtain anything. No matter how it goes, we lose. And when we look outside, it doesn't matter who's to blame here. The fact is that we will all bear the consequences and will abolish several more mandates when there is probably no more of the same coalition and no longer of the same government. So it's very important that some agreement is reached here. To oppose the gathering of signatures and a referendum with formulations, as we have heard in the past days, to say that this is an abuse of procedure, that this is something undemocratic, that this is not to be considered immoral, is irrelevant. It's not like that either. It is not possible to support the referendum only when you file it and oppose it when someone else demands it. When people vote for the single Koper Congregation, the referendum is fine when they vote for something else. The referendum is a constitutional decision-making option. Because there has been an initiative that, if implemented, will have no non-good consequences, it is not possible to "dispute" the form of decision-making on its own. Finally, Slovenia has created a referendum and this must be respected and solutions must be sought within the framework that are and within this framework is also an option for referendum decision-making, and if some agreement is reached with the applicants and the National Assembly adopts a text that is also in their interest, I do not believe that this agreement would be followed. But if he doesn't stick to this deal, he'll lose all credibility when he urges people to sign. And collecting 40,000 signatures certified in administrative units isn't just like that. This also requires a certain degree of credibility. So, in fact, much depends on this answer, and if efforts were made in this direction, they were productive or only meaningful. Finally, I would like to say that we hope that those who have the majority of scissors and canvas in their hands, when it comes to actually solving this border issue between Slovenia and Croatia, and when it comes to the steps that need to be taken with regard to Croatia's entry into the European Union, will understand from these developments in recent days how limited the space for manoeuvre is available to resolve these things and that history did not begin last November when the current government took over its mandate. Not even in December 2004, when the previous government assumed its mandate. But everything has become extremely limited since the ratification of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement was rejected in the Croatian Parliament and that the solution available is not much. In fact, it's just one and the sooner we see it and work in this direction and don't rely on some utopian solution that someone's going to propose, it's going to be better. So if some of the lessons are drawn from these developments in recent days, including what needs to be done in the coming months on the same front and in the same themes, but perhaps with other receptions, then at least there will be some additional benefit from having this meeting today, although I think we could, if we do not prevent it, at least reduce it by some reasonable insight into the situation itself and also by acting at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting on Monday. I repeat the question. The president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is now on the agenda. It would be good for all of us to hear together: Was this negotiation successful or were there any guarantees that these signatures would withdraw and could we vote in favour of this text with the conviction that we had done something? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Wiggle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. After the mandate of the President of the Government, I was engaged two days ago in an attempt to find a compromise solution, a compromise formulation of a document of the Committee on Foreign Policy that would satisfy the applicants or applicants' request to start collecting signatures for the referendum. I have taken this part out of my firm conviction if such an agreement succeeds and if the referendum is prevented, it will be something important for the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and not only in relation to the neighbouring country of Croatia, but also for our reputation as members of NATO. And countries that are willing to invest everything, perhaps sometimes even more, in order to prove that conflicts and conflicts between countries are being resolved in a European, cultural and creative way. This was our internal debate. I have already said that a lot of time and effort had to be made, and we have all of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that we have formulated an initial proposal for a decision, but obviously this from the position of the representatives of the Institute on 25 June and of the Slovenian People's Party as related organisations, which have announced the collection of signatures for the referendum, this position and this assurance has not been sufficient. This morning, after the talks I had previously held with all parliamentary groups, we met the head of the Institute on 25 June, Mr Marjan Podobnik, and the Vice-President of the Slovenian Party from Maribor, and we reached a minimum or if you want maximum points of agreement on what conditions they are willing to withdraw from their initiative. I have here a initial document signed by all the participants in the discussion in symbol of their agreement and acceptance of this agreement. According to my information and assurance, which I have also received now before I come to this Chamber, Mr Marjan Podobnik, as Head of the Institute on 25 June, intends to publish, inform the press that he fully accepts this decision of the National Assembly as a guarantee that the interests of the Republic of Slovenia are protected upon the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty, that the National Assembly has demonstrated the maximum level of understanding to their expectation and therefore depart from all activities relating to the collection of signatures. At this point the situation with the Slovenian Party is slightly different, but there is a president of the party who did not participate in the talks and he gave the Vice-President full authority and I also asked him about it at the beginning of the discussion, the discussion was also attended by the lawyer Daniel Starman, who assured me that he had full authority to participate until the final formulation of an unacceptable decision for him. Well, now the president of this party, I hear, has some concerns and he reserves the right to give a final opinion or final position on this subject after consulting his client's leadership. This is a question of credibility for me, Mr Janša. I agree with you. If we talk this way and sign a common document, a paper with a commitment, not just a handshake, but a signature, if this is not respected, then such an organisation or such a party does not deserve any credibility and I think it does not deserve any respect as a partner in any important matter for the country. I think this deal was important. I hope he's fully respected. I hope that the representatives of this extraparliamentary party will also be able to have sufficient honour and a fair attitude towards a fair response and that they too will withdraw their initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wonder whether Members and Members feel the same way about the content of the agenda item we are discussing today. Proposal for a decision on non-recognition of the provisions of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia. I read this address carefully and tried to understand it. However, I must say that I am not sure whether it has the right objective and whether it would not be better, as it is today, to say in actual substance that we are talking about whether it is possible in this Parliamentary Assembly, but also among the initiators to collect signatures for the referendum, to reach an agreement that will provide a clear solution to Slovenia's views on resolving border problems with Croatia, while at the same time giving sufficient grounds to proposers to collect signatures to tell us that they will no longer do so in the future and that the referendum will not. Indeed, even after the debate of most of us, this is a fundamental issue. I think that's the right thing to do. At least I personally do not believe that any decision taken in the National Assembly to safeguard its interests would have any effect on Croatia and the international community, except for ourselves and for each other. Such a decision would apply to us. It could be important, it could be very important. Someone might think it's about time we accepted him. Those who have delayed the requests of the Slovenian People's Party for a resolution for four years in the previous term could also say today that they are not guilty of anything, but that it is the right time today and that it has been gone for four years. All of this is possible, but nevertheless, I do not believe that many of us believe that the content of the decision adopted would have any obligation for the Republic of Croatia. It could continue to be possible for me to have a clear conclusion and clear positions in the National Assembly, and Croatia, not only in the form of regulations, but also in the form of actual actions, would act as before and intervene in our territory. Therefore, it seems important to me that we have a clear picture of this, and above all that we also have a clear picture of what the possible disproportionate delay in the decision-making process would mean for Slovenia's position in the international community. I believe everyone who reminds us that this would have a negative position for the credibility of Slovenia, since it has made an unconditional promise at the end of last April, this is not my expression, the expression of those who participated and the texts of the treaty which was adopted in NATO, unconditionally promised the continuation of the process and the acceptance of Croatia and Albania in early April of this year, and we have tried to avoid this path. I must say, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, that you have your share in this for at least ten days. In order to show the wrong result of the final account in 2007, you stated that you would not participate in the decision on the confirmation of Croatia's entry into NATO until the content of the final account has been changed and confirmed in the manner that you would say after the year. In short, not with a negative, but with a positive result in the balance of payments. That's history. That's, in my opinion, facts. It is a pity, however, that you do not recognise them either, now that you are warning everyone else, even the coalition that it was too late to take decisions which, after a common assessment, have a value primarily as an internal policy action to the referendum's proponents and nothing more and no one else. I will be happy if they help in this direction that the referendum will not, and help Slovenia in its foreign policy situation. But I am not pretending to help me solve the problems that we want with regard to the border issue between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that today's debate and decision-making on these decisions would not be necessary. I am still sure, and no one has said anything else today either, that there is no significant difference between the situation in which we are concerning Croatia's entry into the EU and the relationship, and that NATO Croatia has not offered a decision that could in any way prejudge border issues, and this is not the content of the Nato Agreement. And that, after all, it is our interest to integrate democracy and security into NATO and Croatia, as this will also strengthen Slovenia's position. Therefore, it would be much better for everyone in Slovenia to understand this situation and make a decision, but not for some parties and some groups or otherwise formed interest associations to act in a way that is possible that Slovenia has come into a position where it will not be able to fulfil its obligations in April last year. I am pleased to hear Mr Wigel's frank statement and Mr Janša's frank question, mine is the same. However, I think that we should do something else, perhaps even by the end of today's meeting, to take a decision not only for history and to be forgotten in a very short time, but to achieve the only one, at least for me, the only purpose that today's meeting really has: to convince the applicants that there is a strong enough will to ensure the interests of Slovenia in the negotiations and at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union, so that it is not justified to ask questions about Croatia's entry into NATO, is not necessary, it may even mean that Slovenia will play adducts that should be played on a different basis and at a different time, and thereby weaken its actual position to achieve the necessary results.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Look, earlier, Mr Wigel showed the document, he said it was a flat-line agreement, which, of course, is important in view of the topic that we are dealing with today, it is important for a decision that we would finally take and will be important in the light of further developments. I would suggest, Mr President, that you obtain this document and that a copy be distributed to all Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. I think that this is in Mr President's domain, and if he thinks that the interlocutors or signatories agree, please, please, you can do this. Mr. Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers and assembly. I myself will support this proposed decision in the hope that the adoption of this decision will break this common attachment to some political spasm that is not going anywhere. I believe that putting the charges on the left to the right is one big nonsense, despite the democratic procedures that must be in such a case. However, I also find it unworthy and inappropriate that this burden of decision should be placed on the shoulders of citizens. Before voting, I also expect confirmation from the applicant that an agreement has been reached with the right signatory for the referendum to stop this procedure. But I also consider myself personally, and I'm sure I haven't done any "return exams" with this action of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Respected and respected. Small nations rarely have the opportunity to show their greatness. There is an important consensus in the Slovenian community that we want to prove our greatness with our knowledge, with our creativity, with innovative surpluses, with the value of our culture and with the beauty of our country. These are the attributes of the nation by which it wants to be known and recognized in the world. At times, though, a small nation may also be tempted to display its importance in the wrong way. A way that speaks of its limitations instead of its size. In these days we are once again witnessing this ambition. Showing your power when you should show your wisdom. This government will soon celebrate its 100 days. I submit that no government in Slovenia alone has such a strong balance in such a short time. Among these, we have taken the most ambitious steps in the field of foreign policy. With the idea of mediation of wise people, which is a welcome European Commission response to the Slovenian blockade of Croatia's accession process towards the European Union, an important shift has been made towards a smart and realistic way of resolving the border issue. With the protection of Slovenian national interests, the blockade has also led to a significant increase in interest and knowledge of the issue in the capitals of the Union for the Slovenian and Croatian border issues, making it significantly easier for us to come to a smart solution to this almost two decades-long dispute and an increasingly pressing issue. The success of this process, as well as the success of our policy in the international dimension of the economic crisis, depends on our credibility in the international community. This credibility is a condition for us to be able to pursue our Slovenian national interests in a number of areas, from a border issue to economic and other interests. Therefore, I am pleased that in Slovenian politics, knowledge of what we are putting at stake by playing with the referendum and how strongly populist rhetoric can jeopardize our interests. I understand the Croatian people as a friendly nation, and therefore I am not a publisher of Slovenia. The challenge of policy on both sides of the border must therefore be to build a new quality of relations and build confidence. Without this, I cannot imagine the permanent stay of two nations, many common interests, strong economic and cultural ties and mutual interests for a stable and closely connected region. Today, I want to be, once again recently, one green light for Croatia. I want to contribute to removing obstacles to its Euro-Atlantic perspective. I do not want Slovenian national interests to be the hostages of those who build their populist policy on their constant repetition. Those who have national interests constantly in their language often put them at risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the government. Dear colleagues and coworkers. I think that with this outstanding foreign policy issue we have been successful in particular in one matter: that we have placed a smoke screen before the concrete and real issues currently affecting the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. We have set a smoke screen against economic challenges, problems, great unemployment and uncertainty. I think it would be wise for the National Assembly, Slovenian politics and all those who say they want to protect Slovenia's national interest to protect this national interest by ensuring the development of our country, ensuring that we overcome the economic crisis as quickly as possible and that we all have a better economic and social future. Nevertheless, the issue of these negotiations, the question of the proposed amendment and the credibility of the interlocutor who has negotiated this amendment is raised. I think it was all negotiation; given how it showed by the referendum initiative; an inestimable bluff. I think the whole referendum initiative is bluffing. I think that these people are particularly concerned with personal and client promotion and that they do not really care about the issue of borders. Indeed, this debate and these views have led to unnecessary radicalisation between the two friendly countries. This is even more irresponsible, and if we want a dictionary that is foreign to me, even the most treacherous. It is responsible to seek a solution that will offer the real protection of the interests of the people who are most concerned by the border issue. What kind of people are they? People who live at the border. I'm talking about fishermen, I'm talking about farmers and everyone else who have to cross the Schengen border today or more every day between Slovenia and Croatia, and who want the question to be resolved as soon as possible, so that they can live a normal and friendly life. This is what must be our main goal. I agree that it is important to set a limit, but my colleagues and colleagues, the most important thing is to cross the border! Both in the legal sense and in the head. Cut the line! "Not the devil, but the neighbor will be the limit" - you probably know that. This makes sense because only the early integration of Croatia, both in NATO and in the European Union, will enable us to actually overcome these borders and to start living as two normal European neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! This decision, which is before us today, I will support. I also supported a similar decision on Monday on the Foreign Policy Committee. Of course, I also sincerely hope that colleagues on the other hand today will gather so much will and courage to support the decision, although they are not like the Foreign Policy Committee. However, they have recently shown that they can vote twice on the same text. The referendum, of course, is legitimate, legal, but in my opinion it is totally unnecessary. These 3 million euros, as much as this referendum would cost, could be earmarked for the payment of rights for the university. And the Mayor of Maribor, once a member of the SLS, Franz Kangler, would be extremely pleased and very grateful to all. You're neighbors, unfortunately, we don't choose. We like to talk in diplomatic language about how we have great neighbourly relations with Croatia and all the other neighbours. However, this time with Croats quality and good neighbourly relations is not possible. Let us also remember how Croatians simply erased Slovenians and Slovenian minorities from the preamble of their constitution decades ago. That we are not even talking about the border issue that we are talking about today. In some ways, the paradigm of Croatian politics is at least to Slovenia a policy of finished facts, a policy of deception, of impropriety, often also of indiscretion. But like other colleagues, I think that Croatia should be helped. It needs to be helped to go to NATO to join the European Union to join this community of nations that are based on democracy, democratic and civilisational standards. These standards of democracy, what are they? Respect for human rights, civilisation and respect for these agreements, avoiding conflicts, especially with neighbours, the ethics of public words, and raising the phone if a colleague from a neighbouring country calls you and, of course, respect for historical facts, not the fabrication of historical facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, are warmly welcomed. With the agreement reached, which I respect and appreciate, I finally respect our willingness to participate in such important decisions as the unresolved problems of our border. However, I would like to make a few words to the parliamentary majority. I come from a music family too, so I'll start with that. The famous conductor was once asked which instrument in the orchestra is the hardest to get a musician. For the second violin, the maestro responded to the surprise. It's easy to get a number of first violins, but it's hard to get a man to play the second violin. But if no one plays the other violin, there's no real harmony in the orchestra. Therefore, it is not necessary to be ashamed and accept the proposals of the Slovenian People's Party, which is a minority. Think of how the harmony of our Parliament would have sounded if they hadn't listened to us. Dearly beloved, just a few days ago our mouth was filled with quotations from Prešern, Cankar and other fathers of our spirit, who called on the Slovenian people to be united and to care for their existence and expressed love for their homeland, responsibility for future generations and concern for Slovenian self-esteem. Now all patriotic thoughts of the parliamentary majority have been lost in the concern for the reputation Slovenia has in the international community. For God's sake. Are you really so shortsighted or are you trading with someone at the expense of what we have achieved in Slovenia? Do you really think that others will appreciate us by subjugating and losing our territory while you do not care about our own border of living Slovenia and Slovenia? You don't care what the Slovenians think. Is your move today really returning our unity and our confidence, which is the foundation of our reputation and credibility in the world. People trusted you to run the country. But you have no mandate to humiliate us to trade with our pride and sell the fruits of our ancestors and take them to Slovenian sons and grandchildren. You have no right to deceive and insult in public those who fight for the interests of the average Slovenian intellectual, worker and farmer, and thus hide from your own responsibility. If you imagine that you will be respected and successful only by the power of rhetoric, which is spiced up by arrogance and underestimation, you are shortsighted. Slovenians and Slovenians are not naive. Get to work! Start solving problems! And today, with this move, you say you're getting interest, and that's something to be commended. I'll support the joint amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal, even though they often say they are not good for compromises. Nevertheless, thanks must be given to all those who have been able to do so much and have made sure that this compromise has come to the table. But what bothers me is that I hear many of those who had scissors and linen in their hands, so that today I would rather hear this: therefore those who had scissors and linen in their hands, but for this you did nothing, and therefore in the previous term back and forth. So I assume you're slowly becoming or getting red on your face, especially those you've used before every election on this subject that we're talking about today; these weren't enough. All those you've used differently, because sooner or later a good neighbor must have some respect for his neighbor. The main message I applied for the debate was today. I got it from the employees of one of the Pomurje companies that had a meeting today on the problems they have, on the fact that they have no job, that they have minimum wages and that they are still fighting for them. They also had this topic, that is, the referendum today, the workers at a company. And you know what they said? "Isn't it a shame? Are you going to come to your senses? Isn't it a waste of money for the referendum? Look at us workers, how we live, and try to be optimal in Parliament!" For this reason, I am very pleased that we will also avoid this referendum, which has threatened us in some way. I also got a few e-mails from some mayors, such as our former colleague from Ormož, who also says that there are many, many other things on the whole line that have not been solved, but I appreciate that, of course, diplomacy needs to be given, as is done today, so that, of course, they can get things so far as to be "satisfy" for both neighbours. I am sure that two good neighbours must compromise. Without this compromise, Croatia and we will not live in some normal common life. True, I am joining those who say that compromise must be done here, within us, or above all in higher politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, too, Minister. Now, of course, we are witnessing some senseless act that Parliament is trying to bring to an end today, in agreement with and with abandonment. One wise advice from older people was to "be sure to give up." And I am sure that there will be most of them in Parliament today. We confirmed the ratification with Croatia by 75 votes. This is a sign and a message that when it comes to common good, Slovenian policy can and can be decided. The clear message must also be that we do not need a referendum in this story and that such and other referendum initiatives, which are worthy of condemnation, are in particular for the collection of political points. We've obviously made an international spectacle out of a neighborly quarrel. Those who propose a referendum would end up billing Slovenian taxpayers. It just doesn't work in any way. I would not have embarked on a debate as much as in the last weeks of misdirection, delaying, tactics within Parliament; from the story of the closing account to Monday's session, where, of course, no one had any concrete and other proposals, but immediately tactically and politically recalculated appeared as early as Tuesday afternoon and there were some such hints today. However, I think that, at the end of the day, we are all aware of the fact that this compromise proposal by the amendment must be rejected and that we will also do so in our parliamentary group, and we will be happy to do so on our own behalf. Of course, we draw attention to a number of outstanding matters with Croatia, not only on three points, on several points. Above all, in the famous Brionica Declaration of 2005, which some see as an invention of inventions, we have forgotten to write down the exact points, the exact angles and the projects where we have to solve the border issues and this awaits us in the future. Certainly, this joint declaration or amendment covers those essential matters which are important for Slovenia and in which it will not and must not give up at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Of course, sovereignty over the Gulf of Piran, the exit to the open sea, the left side of villages in Dragonja and also in Hotiz, and, of course, a clear message to the Slovenian people in this Parliament that Parliament is aware of its responsibility, that it will also accept it and realize that the story of entry into the European Union is one story and then another enters NATO. With Croatia, which has fulfilled all the conditions and obligations required of it, of course now has the possibility of entry and must have, and we Slovenians also stand for the word that we have given to our neighbours, that if they do their homework, we will not oppose them when entering NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The opinion of the DeSUS Group has already been said, it is well known and, as has been said, I feel that this is a document that needs to be supported today and, last but not least, to end the whole process and the complications on the way to ratifying the Croatian entry into NATO. There's no way I can agree that some people are just talking about it being some kind of correctional exam. You know, I think that when it comes to deep national interests, then it doesn't matter how many meetings are being held and how many documents are being made, it is important that these documents are such as to fully protect our interests. It doesn't matter what political side the amendments and conclusions come from, it is important that these contents are somehow achieved by a great consensus here in this Chamber, where we are sitting from different political parties. The talk was about damage done on this route of ratification of Croatia at the entry into NATO. I am sure that this damage has not yet been done in such a way that it would be worth mentioning, but the damage would certainly have been done if those who have still indicated the possibility of resolving this dispute or this issue through a referendum would have been large and irreparable. I hope there are very few who are still thinking at this point about the referendum, about collecting signatures, and I hope and I want just as most of us who are here today, that after this vote we will also run out of weapons and ammunition and explosives and energy for all those who think differently than the National Assembly thinks. As I have started, let me conclude: let us hope and wish in person that this last act, which will be in the debate and is in the debate in the National Assembly, will be given the green light to all the documentation necessary for ratification, in the belief that this content of the decision that we will adopt today is, after I have doubled the legal acts already in force and the legal pathways that Slovenia has in practice so far in all the documents, but this decision is without prejudice, this is important. It is unfortunate, but there is another supplement in the whole range of what Slovenia will be able to rely on in either such or other discussion or resolution of this Decision. In all of this, I think it is important that we put this issue on the agenda and that the contents of what has been said a number of times today come to these benches and that we hear a lot about them. So those who are also very vital and relevant to the development and future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I can see that Slovenian diplomacy, under the auspices of this government, has achieved remarkable success in the last period, which shows, last but not least, that it has successfully resolved the problem of financing our minority in Italy, as well as the successful problem at home in Vienna, and also the problem of resolving the border with Croatia is extremely well placed in these procedures when Croatia joins the European Union, so that political parties in Slovenia have never had such a unified position and see how this problem can be solved at diplomatic level, at the level of the National Assembly, governments and, last but not least, with the cooperation of the European Union. Of course, what we have been facing in the last period is destroying this extremely important achievement in the last period. But it is sad that it is destroyed in the account or because of the interest of a particular political party which highlights national interest and thus reduces the possibilities of Slovenian diplomacy to successfully resolve this problem. This is something that I find incomprehensible, unheard of, that one of the political parties can put the position of the party first, not the interest of the State. Talking about getting rid of the border when this decision is being taken today is, of course, not true. I would have believed that if the People's Party had submitted this proposal before consent was given to Croatia's accession to NATO in Bucharest in April 2008. The question is why this was not done at the time, both by the Office of 25 June and by the People's Party, because at that time it was a real time after all diplomatic routes and everyone would understand that we are drawing attention to the problem we want to raise before the process of Croatia's admission to NATO begins. If this happens after this action, of course we can talk about unrealistic politics and actions that take on credibility in Slovenia. In fact, the fact is that Croatia's entry into NATO in no way sets a limit. We do not tolerate the sovereignty of NATO or create any common legislation, this is the subject of the European Union. Here, I stress, we have taken a truly extremely clean position which can lead to the resolution of these issues, which will be acceptable to both Slovenia and Croatia. Most importantly, let us ensure peace and stability in this part of Europe, which is also one of the important objectives when Croatia joins NATO. Therefore, it is not only Slovenia's national interest in these actions but also its peace and stability in this part of Europe. This is what I think actually goes beyond sometimes the limit of reason, to expose Slovenia for such narrow interests and to diminish its international reputation. This decision, which is being forwarded, will certainly be adopted today, but with bitter taste mainly because of these procedures that we are facing in the last period of time, when both the National Assembly and the Government are being enforced because of client interests, and this is certainly not something that would be appropriate for a developed democratic society and, last but not least, for a serious decision in the National Assembly. So I propose that this decision be taken as soon as possible to close this chapter. But how will the story take place then, and I think my colleagues have already warned. I hope that we will not be negatively surprised again at the expense of national Slovenian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. President? Here you go. Oh, as a proponent. Here you go, yes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to be very short. In view of what colleague Weber said, would he be asked, above all, whether at this time, what we started working together in the 1996 National Assembly, have you ever, when we were in the coalition or when someone else in the opposition in the coalition, agreed that a resolution on the border with Croatia would ever be considered by the National Assembly? We have already tabled them three times, and in the three mandates of the National Assembly, we have never received this agreement. Neither of you nor of your fellow Members in your Group of Members. Thank you very much. Therefore, I am pleased that today we are only dealing with one part of this problem, and I will be even more pleased when we finally vote in favour of this decision and the amendment to the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Weber, he didn't quote you. He spoke his mind and did not misinterpret you. Did he misinterpret you? Mr. President, did you misinterpret him? Here you go, Mr. Webber. You have the floor. Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Thank you, President, for your understanding. I think it is more correct, however, that you gave me a word than you have made it impossible for me to explain this position that my colleague Presecnik raised, that we did not support the resolutions on the border proposed by the People's Party. In this case, it is also a unilateral measure within a country which, of course, does not have any major orientations or the basis for a successful solution to this problem. I think that the situation that Croatia is in today when it enters the European Union and with such a unified view of everything, of all political parties, is the key moment when we really prove ourselves to be mature and able to solve this problem. I think that this document you mentioned would never have helped to solve this problem more quickly, but more likely to complicate it even more. That's why I didn't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr or Mrs Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Mr President of the Government, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague. Today's debate, I think, leads to a good conclusion, a good conclusion for the good of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as good cooperation with the Republic of Croatia. Let me repeat, the old human river says, "Neighbor is more than a sting." So, so to us, literally to me personally, I live 500 meters from the Croatian border, and believe that if we didn't get along and work hard to work together, we wouldn't be able to spend so many centuries together. There may have been some conflicts in history, but never so great and so bad that they could not be solved. I believe that even now, because I mentioned earlier that I am in an area along the Schengen border, along the border with the Republic of Croatia, all those here who also live in this area, at the border with the Republic of Croatia, even more so if you are mayors of local communities from this area, you know that we are working well with representatives of the local communities of the Republic of Slovenia, with representatives of the local communities of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I think there are so many Slovenian-Croatian laws and Croatian-Slovenian laws in Slovenia, even in Croatia. The economy connects us. Our large companies point out that they have their establishments, their shops and other business premises and their operations in the Republic of Croatia, so I think they expect us to have one sober and smart and correct solution to the problem. I agree with all colleagues who have discussed the resolution of the border on both land and sea. However, I believe that today, this moment, with regard to this proposal for a referendum, it is true that we are thinking about changing the title itself, that it is indeed a decision on the protection of Slovenian interests when the Republic of Croatia accedes to the North Atlantic Treaty and that all together a little, as we say, "let us calm the horses" and move on in a smart direction towards good cooperation forward. So thank you all for understanding. I think that we are all here, too, obliged to properly represent Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who trusted us to be representatives in this high assembly, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore expect and wish that today's move will once again contribute to better and better cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I also have no obstacles to support today's decision, which we have already voted on, just as I supported the Foreign Policy Committee's decision. Nate’s values have already been mentioned today. These values, once established in an area, in a country, are certainly a guarantee of stability and peace, or a guarantee that a country, an area is oriented towards democratic change, that is to say change for the better. And this direction is certainly anchored by events concerning Greece and Turkey, because tensions between them have calmed within NATO to the point that there is no more armed conflict. In such a light, it would be desirable for Macedonia to come to NATO as soon as possible, perhaps Serbia and Kosovo, in addition to Albania, in order to facilitate the stabilisation of this troubled area within the framework of NATO. When I heard the term "values of Nate", I certainly thought of the transfer of some of our colleagues and colleagues who may have been too young at a certain time to create or create our country. However, when they became old enough, in particular in 2003, 2004, when Slovenia entered NATO, they had a very bad opinion on NATO. So from certain circles they used the flyers "Nato, no, thank you", "Nato, the terrorist force of the West." I am very pleased with the security provided to me by NATO, because I still remember well the dear inefficient security that the genocide of the Yugoslav People's Army is supposed to provide to its own people. The transmission was also a timing for Croatia's admission to NATO. If we have already lost 40 days when the topic was not on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Policy, however, it is certainly a shame this week when we had the opportunity to vote on Monday on what we are voting today. And my colleagues are right when they talk about the exam; some will vote for the same text in two different ways. This is certainly a shift from day to day when we expect the government to take measures to boost the economy. They're gone. They may be needed almost as much as the rain in the Sahara, but they are still gone. The first measures, which are, do not indicate any solution and the problem with neighbouring Croatia is as ordered to shift people's attention to another topic. As I have already said, the content of the decision that we have already adopted on the Committee on Foreign Policy, which I hope we will adopt today, is no problem for me. In particular, when the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is included, including a brionic statement summarizing binding decisions on respect for the situation at 25. 6. I will therefore vote again as I have voted on this issue so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u72	I would like to respond to two thoughts in this debate: one on the correctional exam and the other on the diversion of attention. As for the maturation of the text from Monday to today, that is only three days, I would like to tell this High Council that when we reach a decision today, it will not be just a decision to remove the obstacles so that there will be no referendum. This will be the first document to be adopted by the National Assembly, which will touch on our views on regulating relations with the Republic of Croatia. This will be the first document we will accept in this National Assembly. I, along with the other colleagues, prepared a draft document for the Foreign Policy Committee in May 1993. In June 1993, the National Assembly began to discuss it, but it did not finish the discussion and never tried to hold it later. This debate has matured for a few years then, and we have not finished it - and now we are talking about exams! From Monday to Wednesday, a position matured, which for the first time today, I think, is very reasonable, wise and prudent to say what the attitude of the Slovenian State is to the state of 26. 6. 1991 and until the regulation of relations with the Republic of Croatia. If this is not great progress and if this decision is not in itself worth welcoming today, then I do not know why the findings are needed here among the parliamentary groups on this important document. So it is not just a decision that removes the obstacle so that there is no referendum, it is a document of the National Assembly, which for the first time in eighteen years regulates the view of the National Assembly, the highest legislative body, of the border with the Republic of Croatia and our relationship with it. Secondly, as regards the diversion of attention; the government also had a second option in December to say that it opens certain chapters with the Republic of Croatia, the second one closes and would not, at least for a short time, have problems with Croatia, not with understanding the current one in the European Union, and perhaps not with those moments problems in domestic policy. But this was a short-term solution, and in the long run, we would get caught up in a process that would lead to a problem under the carpet, when it should be solved, the National Assembly and all Slovenian politics would be in a situation that would be very unpleasant for us. That is why all the representatives, the high representatives of the parliamentary parties, decided to make a move like that. Not due to diversion of attention: because we have estimated that this is in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's when we made the right decision! That was a good move. The second good move was that the National Assembly, with three quarters of the votes, ratified the protocol on Croatia's entry into NATO. This has shown that we know how to separate apples from pears. Thirdly, today we will adopt a decision which will be the first document of this High Council on our view of regulating relations with the Republic of Croatia and on our view of border issues. If these are not achievements now that are worthy of one satisfaction today, then I really do not know what Slovenian policy needs to feel a sense of self-confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. My debate is not about the content of the decision that we have before us today, because I have no problem with it, and I just wonder why these things have not been settled in the past, so that this country has a clear position, but is primarily about how we can easily take the way of working and decision-making in the National Assembly when we have taken a decision or voted twice in the last three or four weeks or twice on the same decisions. Therefore, I must admit that from day to day I am more convinced that there is something very wrong with the situation in Slovenian politics when we swear on national interest and a state-of-the-art attitude, because we are doing something completely different. Somehow, over the past month, so-called political intrigue and blackmail have been ployed on subjects of national importance to achieve certain internal political interests and to face the National Assembly in changing these decisions. Such a work, which results in indecisive compromises, cheap political trade "to me, I ask you seriously" questions other decisions that we have already taken in the National Assembly and which we will take. In the last month, as I said, for the second time, we have changed the decisions already made because of such blackmailing methods. This was the first time that the SDS, due to its political prestige, conditioned the final accounts for 2007 with the presence in the vote on the ratification of Croatia's entry into NATO, and today we are again considering the proposed SLS Decision, which we rejected by voting 14 days ago and is re-joined by the vote on the ratification of Croatia's entry into NATO. I simply, once again, as I said before, do not accept this political volunteerism, which, due to prestigious, sometimes even personal interests, raises questions about the credibility of this Parliament or of the National Assembly. I hope that we have learned something from this story in the last month and that, of course, we will do something different in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Dear Mr Vice-President, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Minister and Ministers, Dear Fellows and Fellows, Dearly Respected Remains. Mr. Prime Minister Boru Pahor, congratulations. That's right. The first document will be adopted today. We too in the Slovenian People's Party consider this document to be an honor and finally we are or will be united again. However, I believe that we have made a move since the ratification of Croatia's entry into NATO until today. I am not entirely satisfied with the amendment, but today I will support this amendment. This topic should inform the Republic of Croatia and Croatian politicians that they need to change the tone and manner of behaviour towards Slovenia in the future. This cynicism in me triggers resistance and discomfort. For I must admit that in the past I have believed and still believe in good purposes, in good neighbourly relations. In my naivety, which I am not ashamed of, I initially supported such a way of operating Slovenian politics - a way of a positive approach. Here we are or have come to new data and also that our country Croatia does not want good. They're pulling us by the nose, and they're even proud of it, every blow under the belt they hit us. This is, in this case, the case of joining NATO, the message that we will not talk in this way when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union. We're just not going to let the exams go. In this way we will not work in the Slovenian People's Party! When the Republic of Croatia needed Slovenia, they were friendly at the time, but their dishonesty was overlooked only by the then members of the Slovenian Presidency - member of the Slovenian People's Party, farmer from Mlinka near Škofja Loka, Mr Ivan Oman. Among all those Eminents - just him! If you'd listened to him then it would have been different today. I have information that the Republic of Croatia, with their police, moved our police officers deeply into our territory when we were in the war in Slovenia. There was no war in Croatia at the time. At that time, Ivan Oman demanded the decisive action of our forces, and he did not receive support in the Presidency of that time. So, who's stabbing someone in the back? We are not doing this in Slovenia, and we are already telling the Republic of Croatia that we have created positions and requirements that must be resolved and concluded before the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union; then there will be no joke. We are able to obtain a sufficient number of signatures for the referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the principle of justice in all the conflicts and problems that have accumulated between countries. And even in Slovenia, we must be aware that we will have to admit some facts, as well as swallow some bitterness, but, please, no blows under the belt. As for the activities of the Slovenian People's Party in the past and the actions of our Members, I say that they have done their work honourably. There are no unmistakable people, some can't admit mistakes, but we can do that. I'm not intruding, I've been wrong, I'm probably wrong, and I'll be wrong, but I'll try not to be wrong as much as possible. Today we sit in the benches of the Slovenian People's Party with new Members, with our thinking and following the work of the Slovenian People's Party in the past, especially in defending national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Government! I understand you've cheered up the People's Party today. But the fact is that the general feeling, the impression that some Members have, and probably not so few of us, is that we are again and again on the exams. At least I have this impression because last week I voted sovereignly and also very confidently on the decision we got on the table on the Committee on Foreign Policy. And I have estimated that that decision was clear enough, sufficiently clear, because it demanded or confirmed Slovenia's determination to adhere to those rights which go beyond recognition of the status on the day of independence. Then the Institute happened on June 25th. We've all read and watched TV about what's actually going on. It is clear to all that today we have concluded with this institution run by some citizens who have not received voter confidence in the elections, while we Members are here. You have even negotiated with this institution in person, and we have come to the conclusion that there is something else that needs to be added to those decisions that have already been adopted. I will not go into the content of this Decision, this is actually an irrelevant matter, because we all know that this Decision is not binding on either Croatia or NATO. It's basically a decision that binds our negotiators, somewhere that we think should be written down. But I'm surprised we didn't pass the exam before that. The discussion was, however, about the declaration of a resolution to be adopted by the National Assembly. There wasn't much excitement, but we know why. Because if we go to mediation and want to negotiate and final compromise with Croatia, after the intervention of the European Union, it is a bit embarrassing to stick things on those points that could tie the hands of negotiators. We all know that. Today we decide, that is exactly what we are deciding on, a dictatorship which is very clear and which is not at issue in many ways. I also believe that it must not be disputed that Slovenia had direct contact with the open sea on the day of independence and that it supervised the entire Bay of Piran with its police. But that's not what this is about. Look. There is something completely different in the game and what bothers me, and what worries me is the fact that every time we accept blackmail and respond by giving in. As a member or as a member of the National Assembly, I am somewhat surprised that, after the vote, where a convincing majority has been reached, not only a two-thirds majority, but 75 votes, we are here again today, we are correcting something, we are adding something and we will vote again on something that the Institute demands on 25 June. With all due respect to this institution and to those citizens who, to be more honest, some are less sincere, but are working for their own cause. We are easing and conveying to the public a message which will be very questionable for the Government and also for the government majority and for the National Assembly. If we give in to the Office on 25 June, Mr President of the Government, tomorrow I do not know how we will not give in to the more well-founded demands of workers and workers, citizens and citizens who will demand the same speedy solution even when these rapid solutions are difficult, but are encouraged by the fact that the National Assembly is subject to new and new demands under every social pressure, social segments that will require it will emerge, and this is justified. We are going into a severe crisis, into a severe recession, and the fact is I have the impression that this is all a smoke screen that is supposed to cover the real problems of this country. The real problem of this country is not the Office of 25 June, it is not what we will write in this text; it is clear to us what negotiating points are and they do not need to be written down, because if our diplomacy does not know what we really want without this document, then it is a really bad situation. And if we had to wait for this document to make it clear what we are actually demanding in the negotiations with the Croats, then the situation is very serious. And I understand that Slovenia smiles in this way in front of the international public. I don't know if there has ever been such a bad reputation for Slovenia in the European Union in NATO, Mr President. Now, we've heard Members of Parliament before, they have contacts with Western Members, we all have them. Thank God, we do not live in an Antarctic country, we live in an open Europe, we live in an open society and we communicate with this Europe daily, and we know exactly where Slovenia landed. We are in an unenviable position at this time, so allow me, Mr President, not to see this happening today. I accept all of this with a dose of political realism and great concern. We will adopt this document, I will not vote against this decision, I will probably abstain for the reasons that I have now laid down; but believe me, tomorrow we can get this decision, we can get a referendum tomorrow and we can get new meetings in Dragonja, where they will wave this decision, which will be significantly politically stronger than any decision of the Piran court. That is how I think we are playing with fire, that we have not been in line with the situation, and we have not clearly told citizens and citizens before, in the right way, where, in fact, and how Slovenia will come to the compromise that is acceptable to us. I am afraid that we are moving away from this ultimate goal and that we are therefore blurring the situation and telling ourselves what we want, but we do not know what to do. This is my concern. I'm sorry this is happening to our government. I would expect more political realism, as well as more tactics and strategies. There's something missing here. And I do not believe that there are capable people, capable international lawyers in this country, capable diplomats who could actually design a strategy that would lead us to the goal. From day to day, we are making our international situation worse. You will not convince me, Mr President, that we stand well. We're not standing well. We're under a lot of pressure, and that's why everything that's going on here today is happening. I understand and respect all proposals, including Mr Jelinčič. He plays his part to the end consistently, and that goes with respect. I do not agree with him, but I would like the government to stand up once, to say clearly how we will proceed, how we will finally experience this catharsis, which is called the border agreement. I expected that we would reach this agreement in this mandate. I hope that we will reach Croatia's entry into the European Union within the next two years. I think there are also conditions for this to come, but if we let go of every blackmail like that, every proposal coming from the streets, I think we are going to evaluate this Parliament so that our word is not actually worth it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u80	A few words about respect for the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and the international community. In mid-December, we made reservations because of the Slovenian policy consensus. Until then, there was very little listening to Slovenian warnings that the issue of the border between Slovenia and Croatia was not regulated, despite our good will and our attempts, due to Croatia's unwillingness to resolve this issue. When we made reservations and European policy saw that after October, when the previous government had its mandate, the new government was not willing to give up, it had changed its position. And today, the European Commission is ready to mediate the solution to this issue through mediation. If Slovenia did not respect it if it did not take it as equal and equal members of the European Union, the European Commission would not have decided to take such a unprecedented step. Yes, it is. Another time. As for the solutions that concern other issues that are important for the fate of our people. We have already adopted the first package of measures to combat the financial and economic crisis. There will be a budget rebalancing at the government tomorrow, a second package of measures to combat the financial and economic crisis and a package of austerity measures. It is not possible to say that the Slovenian government underestimates the problems in domestic policy because of its handling of the issue in foreign policy. If I could choose, I would choose a situation in which it would not have to deal with foreign policy issues in order to fully focus on domestic issues. We are doing this, but at the same time we must safeguard national interests. Therefore, when today, I hope that, the National Assembly - this is your choice - will adopt a decision for the first time in its history, it will adopt a position that is important to defend our national interests. And I wouldn't underestimate it. And I, if I may say so as opposed to you, accept it with pleasure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr President, Prime Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr President, I would be very pleased if the satisfaction you feel at these two events - the 75-vote ratification voted and the expected vote of today's decision - could be the goal and these two facts would have the weight of what you have been talking about. But the fact is that support for Croatia's entry into NATO has experienced a cold shower, that we are now at this meeting, that this is probably not the last point and that we will still meet, as they say, with what other will, and I want to say that I always respect the referendum will and that when we had to vote in the National Assembly on the ratification of Slovenia's entry into NATO, I voted as the people at the referendum have decided. What may happen to the referendum if it comes to Croatia's entry into NATO - I don't know; but it's not always just the goal, often the path is important. And on this path, there are many passions, many opinions that are not helpful in cultivating good-neighbourly relations. And this is what brings me to the question - is it really so urgent that after the ratification we had to get to a meeting where we are discussing things that are a national consensus? I don't know anyone between us who claims to be opposed to what was 25. 6th of 1991. Because that, I think, is our position, which is clear, general. By adopting this decision, however, I fear that we will not convince the other countries that are interlocutors in these stories; and this is a problem that I do not know and I do not see the end of it. With regard to the reputation of Slovenia, its credibility or its escape from serious problems and making problems there in order to cover something up. Excuse me! On behalf of this country, the largest opposition party promised and supported Croatia and Albania's entry into NATO. She had plenty of time if she wanted to do that too - ratification. But she's not. Let's leave now what the reasons were. And now we're in a situation like this. It seems that for some decisions, it is never the right time. But what is asked here as a question is a fundamental question why we allow ourselves to discuss border issues when entering NATO. The border issue is another issue that we have set out and has been sufficiently clearly confirmed by the Government and made aware of when it raised reservations at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union; and this is essential to me. And there's something else I'd like to point out. Whether we have asked ourselves whether we have the right to claim different conditions for Croatia to enter NATO as they are set for all other countries - and here would be the fundamental question that would stop me, regardless of the circumstances, twice vote and the current frequent debate on the correctional exam, if I did not believe that this would be in favour of Slovenia, its security and its wider environment, if Croatia were included in NATO, and if I did not believe that the problems that we have with regard to the recognition or resolution of the outstanding things would be resolved later than before. However, I would expect from my fellow Members who are going to Europe, as they can teach us things, that they have not missed the opportunity to tell those who would like to wipe out Slovenia how they are with us and that we are a credible country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dearly-respected Mr. President of the Government! The quorum of Members and the ministerial assembly at the beginning of today's session tells us that we are aware, however, of the importance of the consequences and the content of today's statement we are adopting. I hope that it is a positive consequence of what we will accept today to stop the referendum proceedings. I hope that they will be credible and responsible and will have so much pride in all those who have so far collected signatures that this gentlemen's and political agreement will be respected. Because, of course, I have a deep respect for the Institute of Referendum. At the same time, I say that at this point the referendum would be counterproductive to the credibility of Slovenia. For the credibility of Slovenia within NATO, within this strategic partnership, is extremely important and we need it for negotiations and our position in establishing the border, when Croatia enters the European Union; and from the outset I have argued that these are two separate procedures. These effects would have been negative if the referendum had taken place, of course for Slovenia. We must have so much political sense in the National Assembly, and I hope we have it. Of course, it's a shame we didn't have that understanding on Monday. I don't agree with today's exam. Correctional exam is for florists. However, there is a state exam and, above all, there is a government coalition. Look, we proved it on Monday because we voted correctly and made the right decision. And we were aware of what would happen if this state exam didn't take place on Monday. And it was right for the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, to say that it was necessary to ripen from Monday until today, to ripen for members of his coalition. I agree with him. And as I say, correctional exams are for crickets. I do not have Mr Pahor as a cricketer, strongly representing Slovenia's interests towards Croatia. Unfortunately, he has quite a few florists in his line. Look, at the correctional exam, professors are usually merciful. That's why it's not a correctional exam today. Who are the crickets? It is the cricketers who today, in this important context and at this point attack the invaders and say they have full readings at their expense. And let them talk about their ancestors, whom I believe they were, from Judenburg, Celovac, Master's fighters. But such talk, spitting on the invaders today is a spit in the face of their ancestors who were so proud. And, look, on Monday it wasn't a matter of pride, it was more of a lack of political instinct. A Member said there is a lack of tactics and strategies in another context. I agree, a lack of tactics and strategy, and this requires catharsis, as he mentioned, but again from another point of view, it is necessary and some have experienced it, catharsis. Of course, when someone today says and attacks the invaders in this context, I must say that it is the singles who have also contributed decisively to this catharsis at Monday's meeting and today's closed meeting. And these invaders have adopted the most powerful document Slovenia has in the face of Croatia so far, this is the Brionic Declaration. See, not all have matured, but on Monday we succeeded in entering the Briony Declaration as the strongest document in Slovenian hands. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to introduce the actual contents of the Briony Declaration. And it is clear to all politically aware that the actual content of the Briony Declaration, which reconfirms the situation on 25 June 1991, is the jurisdiction over the Bay of Piran, access, contact with international waters, that it is the left bank of Mura and that it is also on Dragonja and so on. And this has been achieved again in the government by a generation of self-sustainers. And that's why some people are tearing them down today because they don't have enough for Slovenian interests, I'm sorry. And here is needed for those who do not have enough will for Slovenian interests, catharsis. There's a catharsis! Look, unfortunately, we're in a situation today where there's not really much of this that's been done. Why wasn't it done? Probably because of Slovenian naivety and kindness, when there since 1993, at the time of the Drnovskov government, instead of pursuing their interests, the Croats felt too sorry for us because they had a war. If they had moved those containers from Dragonje to the quarry, the border would still be clear on the quarry today, and Mr Drnovšek would not have given up Valenti's letter that the Croats would have done so when needed. Unfortunately, they were - I'm not attacking Drnovska, but there was some kind of well-intentionedness and acne, and then we should actually have the farmer's determination that he had, but the presidency didn't have, as he said those evenings. The other members of the Presidency then had some fossilry in front of Belgrade and the southern neighbours and all that, the instinct of the frog that was stoned in front of the Beluka. I don't know why. And we have to get rid of these fossils. And this is also the content of today's statement. I agree that maturation was obviously necessary. I hope you've all matured not to attack those who have made the foundations of this country, because such an attack is unstately, is spitting in Slovenian country, according to the foundations of this country. Look, at this point, it takes maturity for all of us. Above all, we are responsible for maturity, including for the citizens, and if we react maturely here, this unity will lead to a good conclusion, even when either mediation or anyone decides on the border at sea and on land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Today, the National Assembly has the opportunity to find a common solution to the situation by adopting a decision. I'm glad. At some point, politics has succeeded in reaching consensus and has done what is right; it is responsible, in the interest of our joint efforts, in particular for the issue of open issues. At this point, it must be said that this government, led by Prime Minister Borut Pahorje, who, even if risking the popularity of his name, insists on achieving [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] compromises, which are particularly welcome, especially for the period we are in. [[....]] I would like all those who today are to blame for the situation that has arisen for this government, so that we can all get away from our thresholds together, to think about our own. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Presecnik has the word - he's gone. Mr. Bukovnik, it's not. Mr. Anderlich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u88	Respectable. It is poorly written to Parliament and to a country where it is possible and necessary to vote only "yes" and there are no other options. Enochus and some authoritarian regime left consequences in this country; he was - I thought he would be defeated forever after 1991. He's almost back to us. Thank God. Let's move on. Too many times in the National Assembly, we can only vote the way anyone wants. Today, the second, the third. I'll vote on my conscience. No, Mr Jerovšek, no one else has any right to share moral levies. Each one is responsible for his own actions. I say that there is no one in this Chamber, except those who prepare certain things in the government, concerning border issues and the like, who would not know what the national interest is, as you say, who would not know what Slovenia's vital interest is. And I don't agree with those who say that today is the first time we've accepted a document that will be -- and so on. That's not true! For me, there is a fundamental constitutional charter and something else - many documents have already been adopted in the National Assembly, which talk about it - of course, the Briony Declaration, of course, Mr Jerovšek. God forbid he mentions Bled, from which you distanced yourself to mention the Blaze’s statement. That's not what you're talking about! Now that's something else! But, please, when we are talking about the things we have on the table, about which I firmly believe that we are all deciding with full awareness and full responsibility, and you are not entitled to share moral teachings, especially you, Mr Jerovšek, that I am not talking about some others. If there are not five-sixths of the votes of the National Assembly enough that this was done in the belief that we are doing what is in the Slovenian interest. We did not, once again, give this to Croatia, give it nothing to Albania, but it is Slovenia's interest to become or join the North Atlantic Treaty and become an equal and full member of this relationship. I'm pretty sure of that. That is why it is so much less understandable that the things that were after all were agreed on Monday - with the vote of Mr President, with the vote of all SDS Members at this meeting, that today it is determined how this was a conspiratory thing, how to do catharsis and what else. Please, it's serious! Whether or not the decision will have positive consequences. I'm just afraid he won't be negative. I regret that the Government has not yet been able to draw up a resolution prepared by the dagger at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for a time there have been even two hearings to prepare, one in the cabinet, one in the foreign ministry, but also proof that we must correct this decision during the meeting, of course one that can be doubtful, but what if we do not work in good faith that we are doing good, that we are doing our best for this country, to protect all interests. I don't have a problem repeating it a hundred times, two hundred times, if I have to contribute something to it myself. But I have problems when something is accepted at some request, and then the person who demands it does not keep his word. On Monday before the meeting, it was indisputably ensured, clearly, by the Office of 25 June, that if such a declaration and such a statement were adopted, everything would be fine. Half an hour after the opening of the meeting, the STA already reported: "The Institute of 25 June continues on the path it began." Not to mention when the Committee's conclusions were adopted, what were the statements, announcements and so on. Thus I have difficulty in accepting something and having the opportunity to vote only 'yes' because I want to be constructive and contribute to solving open issues, but of course how long this applies. I would not speculate, but I strongly doubt that the assurances coming through the Institute on May 25th are also valid for the Party of the Slovenian People and vice versa, whether there are any other third intercessions, or whether there are even a number of parties behind that which are parliamentary parties This is a problem and in such a situation the National Assembly has no other than to take decisions in the best faith consistently and if this decision contributes to the fact that the referendum will not, then we have done our part of the work. [[...]] Otherwise, I don't believe that anyone would have the right to share here - share it with others if they didn't understand what they had understood before these things had already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u89	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Anderlich. I agree with you that everyone is responsible for their own vote. It is right that everyone votes in such a way that his conscience does not burn him as a Slovenian, that he did the wrong thing. I myself have not given moral teachings, but I have agreed with Mr President of the Government that it was necessary on your part to mature in order to learn and mature for a real vote. And he knows best how many have matured, who has matured. I hope it's a big majority. But there are some florists in each class, and there are some who are still cricketers, and I hope that this is not a matter of maturation and that, but of other abilities. I ask you to listen to me again, if I even commend your President of the Government, you oppose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u92	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to start by saying that the proposed decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the proposed amendment to this decision will be welcomed. First of all, because I am sure that the Republic of Croatia must take account of the state of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia at sea as on land on day 25. 6. 1991. Secondly, since the Republic of Slovenia had access to the open sea in Yugoslavia and after dissipation. Thirdly, since the Republic of Slovenia exercised jurisdiction over the entire Gulf of Piran. Fourthly, because the question of the Ormo Lake is still open because according to the information provided by the mayor of Ormož, at least half of the Ormož Lake lies in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality of Ormož. And such open questions at the land border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia are still a great deal, among other things the problem on the left bank of Dragonje is also the problem on the left bank of Mure near Hotiz and could also be mentioned. I must also point out that the Republic of Croatia did not take into account the commitment that followed from the joint Brionic Declaration signed on 10 June 2005 between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which undertakes to take account of the date 25.6.1991 in relation to the resolution of the border issue at sea and on land. The Republic of Croatia has always violated these agreements and has adopted, in its favour, unilaterally acts, legal acts that change the territorial status of Quo on the date of the independence of the two countries, namely the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, and thereby deliberately attempts to prejudge the solution of the border issue between the two countries in its favour, which is, of course, unacceptable for the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, I must stress that these arguments are sufficiently convincing to adopt and protect the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia and of all Slovenes and Slovenes today. I hope that the current government is aware of this and also of the coalition. However, if this did not happen, then it is logical to seek other solutions that are certainly less acceptable for the Republic of Slovenia and its position in NATO, the EU and the world, but the only option to protect national interest. Of course, I hope we're all aware of what that means. I am convinced that we must do everything and follow the path that will help to upgrade the international reputation and position of the Republic of Slovenia, but not to the detriment of national interest. We must not allow reckless and incomplete moves to harm and devalue what has been done on the international floor for our country, the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I cannot help but mention Mr President of the Government here. Of course he is not here, but it seems important to me to stress that I did not understand his excitement in the previous debate because he made an impression that he was the savior of the country, the Republic of Slovenia. However, he did not say something important, and this is that we have in three parliamentary groups, and this is the SD Group, the LDS Group and Really, the people who have sat and sat in this National Assembly or in this high assembly since Slovenia's independence. Where have these gentlemen been until today? Unfortunately, I was not in this House at the time. Mr Anderlič, please do not disturb me in this conversation, because you are one of those responsible for solving the border issue with the Republic of Croatia so late. I am convinced that it was the right time to solve this problem when Slovenia gained its independence. At that time, it was time for this problem of borders between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia to be easier to resolve. We've missed that, and now we're dealing with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. The debates of some Members at today's meeting have somehow resulted in the biggest opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, in fact the biggest problem of this national assembly. You just don't appreciate us, you don't need us, you despise us, and in the end, you can't make any important decisions past us, or you can't even make them without us - or you don't want them, because you even have a chance to do that. Here someone has said that the current government is most responsible in these three months for regulating these border matters. But on the same salary, on the same side, it is also the most responsible and even most guilty if this matter is not settled. You can't just take all the credit from being single in the next three months without taking all the blame for these things. I'm sorry, that's just the way it is. Neither did all these cases happen, and not only this decision in the National Assembly, but also some of the previous decisions taken in the previous mandate and previous mandates were those that have unified Slovenia's policy to the greatest extent possible. It's not just the Brionic statement, there are some other decisions. But I can't help but feel that this coalition is operating extremely slowly. On 8 December, the government submitted the law to the National Assembly and only on 22 January, that is to say after a month and a half, this marriage came to work, that is to say after a month and a half, and at that time we arrived a month and a half late. We had a series of meetings, including emergency meetings, extraordinary meetings of the working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy, and we had a series of meetings of the National Assembly. However, as important a point as the ratification of the Association Agreements was, it was not included either in the meeting of the working body which should process the matter and not later in the meeting of the National Assembly. And from here, there's a lot of trouble, a lot of the time that we're in. Some have previously warned that ratifications can be a problem. We were aware of this, and many warned of this. However, I think that without the necessary warnings from some political parties, as well as the work of civil society, we have been completely unjustifiably ignored. You've warned us that you've overlooked those who put a great deal into cooperation with civil society, in conversations, in coordination. It took the government itself two weeks to process or submit this act to the National Assembly, which is also part of the delay. I don't understand, for example, the Secretary-General of the Government and those responsible in the coalition, in the State Council for Acts, that no one has been paying attention to these acts lying here for so long. In these three months, as long as we have a new government, we have only produced two months' delay on the ratification project. We also produced two months of delays in the normative work. I think that if you want Slovenia to develop further, you need to prepare this efficiency and process things much faster, as you have predicted in accordance with the normative plan; and these acts, which are linked to international activity, and also acts that are or are more judicially linked to the internal organisation, internal stability, to reforms, if you want, because of the conditions in which we are in. I also observe that, in fact, no one or almost no one plays those original roles. The representative of the parliamentary group, not the foreign minister, shall negotiate with the representatives of the parties on foreign policy issues. He is not the holder of the ratification project in the State Assembly Foreign Minister. Today we have been having this debate for about five hours, and there has been no debate by the Foreign Minister on this subject. I think that's a big problem. We have a similar problem, say, with banks. We have a law on the SID Bank, and the carrier is not a finance minister, but another minister. Everyone in this government is clearly doing some hobbies, and it is these hobbies that are becoming the main activity of these people, not that primary activity, not that activity from the work circle of the individual department. I think these things need to be arranged in such a way as to run as you have in the government's organogram. So the delay at the beginning was, I can say, the first tactical error of the opposition when it did not take place in time to address this act. Another tactical error - not the opposition, the coalition, and another tactical error of the coalition was the vote against the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party on the working body. I think you need to be so critical that you are aware of the activities that follow. I think that the Government, which has so many excellent advisers, should know how to anticipate a continuation scenario in this project or another project. And also to be aware of the consequences that will take place. However, I cannot help but say that many debaters are stumbled by the final account of the Republic of Slovenia. The government could have suggested that, too, sooner than in ten days. Amendment - Correspondence decision by the Government, if it has been decided, and decision-making at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly - could be done much earlier than in ten days if this is already such a major problem. But obviously no one cares about dynamics, no one cares about hands, but things happen the way they do. And I strongly recommend that you pay much more attention to all such things, as well as very much time, especially to any agreement and discussion within the coalition. I hope that this correctional examination, which the coalition has with this decision, will also be a good school for the continuation of this mandate. I think it's going to be a good school, even though we've already had two or three expensive schools in this very short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. You were the last debater on the list of Members and Members, so I did not warn you that you were also talking about things that are not the contents of this agenda item. I'm asking, does Mr. Secretary want it? Mr. Zbogar, would you like a word? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the motioner, Mr. Jakob Presecnik? No, no, no. Then I note that we have concluded the debate on the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a decision is accompanied by an amendment of the parliamentary groups: Social Democrats, the Slovenian Democratic Party, Zares, DeSUS, LDS, the Slovenian People's Party and an unrelated Member, together with an amendment to this Decision. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the complementary proposal for a decision of the said parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Nobody. I propose this amendment to the vote. We're starting the vote. Excuse me? Who wants a word? Mr. Contic, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u96	Mr. Vice President. I ask you on a case-by-case basis for a 10-minute recess before deciding on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. He wants--no. [[...]] I'm giving you 10 minutes' leave to consult the parliamentary groups. We'll continue at 7:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Please take our seats so that we can proceed to further work. Mr. Bojan Kontic, you requested a recess. You want a word? No, no, no. Mr. Kontic doesn't want a word. Once again, we turn to the vote on the amendment to the updated proposal for a decision on non-recognition of the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been tabled by all the members of the National Assembly. Excuse me. Except for the Slovenian National Party. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour of Members and Members, 64 in favour of Members and none in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment amended to the amended proposal for a decision has been adopted, so we are moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision, including the amendment voted on. I propose a decision to vote. We're starting the vote. I note that 71 Members and Members voted in favour, 65 votes against 4. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a Decision on the non-recognition of the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and thus conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - REFERENCE FOR THE DESCRIPTION OF THE LEGAL REFERENCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE PROTOCOL ON THE ACCESS OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA TO THE NORTHERN ATLANTIC TREATY. The initiative was tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimenite, for an additional explanation of the initiative. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Today Mr Sanader is visiting Turkey. And when he spoke to his colleague Erdogan, he said that Croatia was entering the European Union, then the Pact, that there was no question and that he was essentially asking our President Turk to sign a document on the ratification of the said Protocol. That's the last of the news. And that's how Croats do it with regard to Slovenia. It doesn't matter what happens in the National Assembly, nobody cares, Croatia will enter, because yesterday the representative of the NATO Pact on TV said that NATO has no other plan at all, but simply that Croatia will go to NATO Pact. Here you can see how many words the Republic of Slovenia has. How much we can talk about this and what we can decide in our own way, as sovereign, independent citizens of the state of Slovenia. They don't give us much time off. And that's why Croats work with us this way. They're probably celebrating there right now, and they're not even allowed to get in the way. Sanader also thanked Turkey for its support for Croatia's entry into the NATO Pact. Slovenia, except for the fact that the President of the State has to sign the Protocol, has not even mentioned it; there is no Slovenia for him. There seems to be no such thing as a lot of Slovenia. For the first time in history since 1991, we have risen. For the first time, the current government said, "Enough! We're not going to let ourselves get limped and thumped anymore." But then she took a step back and said, "Okay, let's leave them in the NATO Pact, but with the European Union, we're really not going to let ourselves go!" But--what's the joke? Hec also said in these negotiations that it is real that Croatia will also conclude negotiations with the European Union by the end of the year. Does this mean that some European bureaucrats, like some of Nat's bureaucrats, will "keep milk around our mouths"? That these people will act towards Slovenia as if it were their protectorate? Are we Slovenians really "unworthy garbage" or are we, as some say, "sniffers of the Court of Vienna" - looks like the Washington Court or maybe in time the Court of Brussels - or are we a proud country?Oh, my God! I always thought we were one proud country of proud people who hope for something. It looked like this in 1991, and then it looked different for a long time, and now something was shining in the horizon again, and the clouds soon covered it again. I don't know what else to say, because it's hard to say. You can't tell, the command's down, you'll do as you're told. If anyone thinks in his own way, let him forget this, for if he thinks in his own way, we will agree once more to vote; but if anyone makes a mistake then the Government will call the meeting again and we will put the same matter to the vote again until we vote as it is right. Slovenian Parliamentism has fallen deeply, the Slovenian Parliament has fallen deeply, and I fear that our beloved Slovenia is slowly, but we are constantly losing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The initiative was taken up by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Ivo Wigel, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u101	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. The Committee on Foreign Policy considered the initiative to call for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty at its 9th urgent meeting on 18 February 2009, pursuant to Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the opening, the representative of the proponent, Mr Jelinčič, presented the reasons why the SNS Group tabled an initiative to call for a legislative referendum. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the initiative in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and considered that the initiative was consistent with the Constitution, the Referendum and Human Initiative Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The opinion was presented at the meeting by the Deputy Head of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Marta Briška. Mr Samuel Žbogar presented the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the initiative. A short discussion followed, in which representatives of all parties, with the exception of the SNS as the proposer, took the view that the referendum on Croatia's membership in NATO was something Slovenia could not wish for and would be contrary to our interests. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the basis of Article 184(2) and the relevant application of Article 56 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered that the initiative for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty was appropriate. Three members of the Committee voted against the proposed opinion. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy considers that the call for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty is not appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for an introductory explanation. Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u103	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. With regard to the consideration of the initiative of the Slovenian National Party Group of 13 February this year to hold a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty, I would like to highlight only a few key elements on behalf of the Government. The Law on the ratification of the Protocol, as you know, was passed by the National Assembly last week with five-fifty votes, which represents a significantly more than the prescribed two-thirds majority or more than 80% of Members voted in favour. In the opinion of the Government, the political will of the National Assembly regarding Croatia's accession to NATO is clearly demonstrated. However, following the adoption of the Law on Ratification, some doubts arose earlier that the ratification of Croatia's Accession Treaty in NATO would not sufficiently protect Slovenian interests on the border issue. The government considers that Croatia's accession to NATO does not give an initiative to promote the predecessors of Croatia, but at the same time the government has also agreed with the decisions of the National Assembly just adopted to protect the interests of Croatia's accession to NATO. It should be pointed out that the decision of the Member States to invite a particular country to NATO is, in particular, a political decision taken by NATO members by consensus as a whole within the framework of the Alliance. This political decision is based on a common assessment that a certain candidate has fulfilled the conditions arising from Article 10 of the Washington Treaty. This provides that the Parties may, by agreement, invite any other European State capable of upholding the principles of this Treaty and contributing to the security of the North Atlantic area, to accede to this Treaty and so invited, may become a Party to this Treaty. Involvement in NATO is not based on adapting the rule of law of the candidate country to the NATO acquis, such as negotiations for membership in the European Union. Slovenia, in the process of integrating the new state into the union, only confirms its readiness to conclude an alliance with the new country. NATO's progress report on Croatia does not contain controversial Croatian maps as presented in Croatia's EU membership negotiations. The conclusion that Croatia's entry into NATO would endanger the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore not based on our assessment. As regards the border issue, to re-expose the following, the border between the State has not yet been definitively and contractually established or established, but both parties have committed themselves to respect the territorial "status quo" as it existed on the date of their independence until the final and negotiated decision. After the independence of both countries, Croatia has done several unilateral actions that have tried to change the state or prejudic the border between countries. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has properly protested against all Croatian unilateral developments, thus protecting the interests of the Republic of Slovenia at international level. In the process of Croatia's involvement in NATO, Slovenia has already taken certain decisions, including Croatia's invitation to the NATO meeting in Bucharest. On 9 July 2008, the Republic of Slovenia signed the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty in Brussels, together with the other Member States of the Alliance, and also committed itself to ratifying this Protocol as soon as possible. In view of the fact that Croatia has not obtained any advantage in this process in the case of border resolution through the third, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the referendum decision on the Law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Image, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 February, is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Once again, I would like to stress that the referendum on this issue would not and will not benefit Slovenian interest in finding a solution to the border issue. The representative body, that is, the National Assembly, you have clearly expressed your will. I am sure that this referendum would not lead us to a solution to the border issue, but rather it will move us away from the solution that may be suggested through mediation. Today we decide on membership or a referendum on the membership of the neighbouring country of Croatia in NATO, we do not decide on the border issue. The protocol is short and does not prejudge borders. The border dispute is supposed to be resolved in another context, perhaps also through the intervention of the European Commission. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a referendum, as it considers that there is no need for a referendum decision on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The first is Mr Franco Juri, who will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u105	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The Zares Group will vote against the initiative of the Slovenian National Party for known reasons. In the previous debate, we have highlighted the reasons why we estimate that the referendum would be detrimental to our interests. We support the explanation given by Mr. Secretary. The fact that the possibility of European Union mediation is approaching means that a new phase of bilateral talks is opening up. In this context, a referendum would of course be a major obstacle, which would also trigger a very negative climate, both politically and socially, and would also, of course, damage relations with neighbouring countries. In terms of constitutionality, the initiative is flawless and also properly submitted. We respect the action and determination of colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, but as is known, the Zares Group and all Members of the Zares Group will vote "against" in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u107	Mr. Vice President. Dear Foreign Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will not support the call for a legislative referendum. We believe that if a referendum were not needed, it would awaken irrational emotions on both sides of the border. With broad support for the vote on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty, the initiative is indeed a non-trust initiative to the National Assembly, which has made its decision very responsible. The referendum would certainly also harm the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. In our belief, the referendum would harm the Republic of Slovenia in urgent future procedures for regulating the border between the two countries. Without need, we would spend a few million euros at a time when we should be saving, not spending money and so on. For these and other reasons, which are also an argument to others in this Chamber, our Group of Members cannot support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u109	Have a nice hello again. The Slovenian National Party has tabled a referendum initiative for several reasons. Surely one of these reasons is that Croatia, as it is, has no place in relation to NATO. However - what is also wrong with all these matters? It is wrong that the Government could not obtain the right documents, which were forwarded to Croatia in connection with NATO, and therefore the Government simply speaks about the fact that certain documents are simply not available. They were not able to find them on a mission in Brussels where, it appears, more or less, the whole mission slept on laurels and had a "fine" in those Brussels bars. The government says when we said about the national annual plan for the implementation of the membership action plan that this document does not have the status of the NATO document. Then why did the government submit it when we requested documents that had the status of Nate's documents? Then why did she submit a document that doesn't even have this status? And as the government goes on to say that NATO's progress report on the Republic of Croatia does not contain controversial maps, this is actually true because it contains a national annual plan to enter the NATO Pact. And this national annual plan was submitted by Croatia. NATO's report is just a summary of all of this, where it simply writes what this national annual plan includes. And it's beautifully written there that it's a defense doctrine, that it's a detailed state defense plan and so on. Tell me which country in the world can make a defence plan without a map! It's not there yet. Virtual maps that would be implanted directly into the brain - not yet. It can be implanted into the brain of something else, but certainly not plans and maps. These maps shall be accompanied by the documentation submitted at the time of entry. But that's just the way it is. The government doesn't want it. The fact is that accession negotiations also need to address the impact that changes will have on border areas. Here too Croatia, like Slovenia, had to do the same things to Italy towards Slovenia. It also had to prepare the entire project of the border of Croatia with Slovenia. I will not descend on the other regions, because it was also necessary to do so in the face of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro, but on the other hand, once the problems already being pointed out have appeared. But well, the government says it doesn't mean anything. Croatia even says, "What are you doing, Slovenians, because we did not prevent you from entering the NATO Pact." Croatia is so far away that, like those judges who are supposed to determine whether Slovenia should ever enter the NATO Pact or the European Union. Now, of course, with their lobbying, which is mainly based on bribery, they also acquired the Vice-President of the Czech Republic, who said, "Croatia must go to NATO and the European Union as soon as possible, because we need European California." And then, of course, he clumsyly added that he went to the Croatian coast every year. Very nice. At least he said something about what he was doing there, and he probably went to his own house. The Croats have this habit of giving a lot of money. We don't even seem to have our own sea anymore when they pick up what little we have left. Of course, you all say, "What will Croatia say?" What the Slovenians will say - you don't care. And I think that's exactly what we have to submit to - what the Slovenians will say. I'm not interested in Croatia. I don't care what they say, even though I have to say that they say a lot of things that our government hides. Like I said, morning leaf, 30. 1. page 5 describes these incriminated maps of which I say they are, and they are, and of which the Government says they are not. The government doesn't have them - but that doesn't mean there are no maps. The Croats said that only how is it possible that those maps presented for NATO are not controversial and that the same cards are the biggest problem for accession to Europe. None of that! And Croatia lies ecclaatically in all areas! Yesterday we watched on TV how Croatia said that Piran had only 7 Slovenes, about 7 thousand Italians and about 7 thousand Croats. Data were taken from this book by Catasto nationale dell Istria, which was published in 1945 and 1946 in Susak and where, of course, gentlemen under the Communist dictatorship virtually all the inhabitants of Istria were declared Croatian. But let's just go to Piran, what the statistics from 1910 were used by the Croats for Piran. The inhabitants of 7379, the Croats were nothing, not one, the Slovenes 7, the rest were mostly Italians. And in 1945, in order for Croats to be excused for anything else, it was, despite trying to correct the number of inhabitants of 5035, of which 7 Croats, 430 Slovenes, and the rest of the Italians and some other nations. In short, the documents talk about the lies of Croatians, about their perfidious game, played in front of Slovenia. They are preparing this game to be played in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina and towards Serbia and towards Montenegro. These countries will never see either Nate or the European Union. The Croats will take care of it. But you give them the opportunity to boast about it! I hope the Slovenian people will write you your judgment!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. I am pleased or pleased that, at the beginning of today's meeting, we have changed the order of treatment of points 1 and 2, and I am pleased, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we have adopted conclusions and complementary conclusions, the amendment to the conclusions first formulated by the Committee on Foreign Policy and lastly, we have tabled this amended proposal together today. These conclusions are behind us, and we have always stressed that if such conclusions, similar to those adopted by us, fall short of all the reasons for us to participate in any way in the preparation of the referendum, or in the implementation of the referendum, or in the collection of the signatures necessary for the implementation or invitation to a referendum. Therefore, we will not support the call for a referendum in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u113	Good-bye to all of you again! Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to both ministers! Such matters as we have tonight would be best kept silent, for things are more or less clear in themselves. However, since it was a success for the Slovenian Parliament this evening, it is only right to bring it to a successful conclusion. We oppose the referendum in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. The referendum on this story is certainly legal, far from being justified or legitimate, as we often say. We were just wondering, some of the predecessors, how deeply the Slovenian Parliament has fallen and how Slovenians feel about it. The Slovenian Parliament has spoken about this several times. For the last time, he said that this ratification was supported by 75 Members and Members, today he added another important majority message to this decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I think it was 65 or 64 votes for, once nothing against the amendment, and once four votes. Therefore, of course, the numbers speak for themselves. We, the 90 Members and Members of the people, must also take this responsibility and say what we think, but not the decision that is necessary and important for Slovenia, leave to the expensive unnecessary referendum, which in difficult and harsh economic circumstances would draw taxpayers out of their pockets somewhere between €3 million and €4 million. Simply, the data speaks for itself. In all of these stories, a number of Slovenian media have carried out a number of public opinion studies, and none of the public opinion polls on the referendum, the tightening of Croatia's entry into NATO, have been confirmed. Once again, the security of Slovenes and Slovenians is greater if the neighbour is also in the alliance. Finally, Croatia's entry into NATO and in the long term also into the European Union, in strict compliance with all the conditions that we will lay down, even in the national and economic interests of Slovenia. That is why, because it is in Slovenian interest, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will oppose the referendum initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the referendum at which people would be asked "are you in favour of implementing the Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Treaty of North Atlantic," is unnecessary if not even harmful. The time when we could ask questions and seek answers to them was about a year ago when we agreed to invite Croatia to join us in relation to NATO. Any reservations should be made public before Slovenia agrees to invite Croatia. There were no formal objections to Croatia's entry into NATO in the documents in which we had a view of the Members and Members. There is no map or disputed act in these documents that would jeopardise Slovenia's national interest, as is the case when negotiating Croatia's entry into the European Union. At the same time, there is no reason for us not to trust the Slovenian government, which has been very determined to defend Slovenia's interests in the process of joining Croatia to the European Union. The decision of the National Assembly last week, with five-fifty votes, clearly demonstrated the high consensus of our Parliament. In considering the proposal for a referendum, we must reiterate to the Social Democrats that a referendum on a matter on which there has been several prescriptive consensus has been reached is unnecessary. Responsible and aware of all the political consequences, we will vote against the call for a referendum because we want to protect the interest of Slovenia and the credibility of our country in the international public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first word is Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today, much has already been said about recklessness, even the harmfulness of the call for a referendum on the protocol for Croatia's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. Last week, as has been said, the National Assembly voted to ratify this ratification with fifty-seven votes. I must say myself that I was on a business trip in the Czech Republic that day, because the Czech Republic is now presiding over the Council of the European Union, and when it was here, the National Assembly would vote in favour of this Protocol with sixty-seven votes. Today, the proposer of this initiative expects to win sixty-six votes in favour of a call for this referendum. I would say that, of course, it is naive to expect those fifty-seven or sixty-six Members to now give sixty-six votes to go to the call for this referendum and thus question the correctness of their decision last week. Or we could call it stealing time and money from taxpayers. Since there has already been a talk here today about how someone in another place has spoken with representatives of the member states of the Defence Union, then I should say that on the very day that the National Assembly ratified the Protocol on Croatia with 75 votes and that I have informed some of the interlocutors in Prague, and there was a meeting of the Committees on European Union Affairs of the national parliaments of the European Union, and these interlocutors have all in turn stressed to me that this is an extremely good message from Slovenia. A message that relates to the fact that our withdrawal of our consent to open or close a number of Croatia's negotiating points for entry into the European Union was not a whim. It seems important to me to stress this and it is important to point out that just after we ratified this protocol for NATO, we have maintained our face and maintained our credibility in those other reasoned and consistent positions that we will not support those negotiating points that Croatia has attached to them documents and even maps in some cases that prejudge the final resolution of the border issue between Croatia and Slovenia. That is why I think it is completely pointless and naive, and I allow myself to say, even very unintelligently, that the initiators for this referendum expect the consensus of 46 Members here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u119	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! It seems to me that it is important, at this point and in this context, to remind us that our membership in NATO meant a great deal to us when we did not realize it, in 1997, when we actually wanted our first Euro-Atlantic integration to join it to be NATO, because at that time the perspective of integration into the European Union was still very far away. I believe that this is why Croatia is looking at how the ratification process is going, how it is happening with us. Membership in NATO, and this was highlighted in this Chamber on various occasions, not only by membership in a military organisation, but by an organisation that is committed to certain values by Member States. And I think Croatia's NATO membership would contribute to some, perhaps stronger and better, awareness of Croatia's need to join and accept such values. I think that in many ways, which also appears to be a reaction to certain controversial and different debates in our country, it is actually an expression of some typical nervous state reaction in transition, with some post-war traumas and syndromes. Croatian politics, I think that, although we speak mainly to our constituents and to our public, I know that we are very closely following the television networks of the neighbouring country, they and us, so I think it is worth giving a message that Croatian politics towards Slovenia behaves very unfriendlyly, very hostilely and from time to time undervalued, as well as arrogantly. The media in Croatia, when it comes to Slovenia, even when it comes to the open issues that we are discussing, and the problems in which we are involved, are what is referred to as 'glajhsalted' in purgerian. And it is difficult on the Croatian media to find criticism of the Croatian official position. I'm glad it's different with us. That our media are critical, perhaps often critical of how we represent our important national interests here. I'm joining my colleague Jelinčič, although he's not here right now, in his assessment of the style of lobbying. I think that the way Croatia lobbies for its views and actually against us and tries to present us in some unsympathetic light is not exactly correct. That these irregularities were also found by some lobbyists, well-known lobbyists, who repeatedly appear as engaged fighters and activists for Croatian positions and do so quite uncritically. I watched, say, the Austrian socialist, MEP Swoboda, criticising Slovenia for late ratification of Croatia's NATO membership agreement and, of course, they do not ask questions about Austria's membership in NATO. And I think the last person who can point to this is an Austrian politician. Nevertheless, I think it is right that we try to make our relations a little more patient, a little more open, a little more well-intentioned. I think that one of the very important policy tasks is to take care of good neighbourly relations. The adoption of a decision on the invitation to tender would certainly be a contribution to the opposite, sharpening and increasing intolerance. I therefore reiterate that I think that such a proposal is bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian national party shall have the right to submit a proposal for the invitation to tender for the subsequent referendum. All the questions that he has been thinking and thinking about since the first day of this country's creation have been harmful to Slovenia. And that's what we did. I know that many Members are tired. And I also know that whoever's in charge can't hear or remember everything. Let me first say that one of the Members has said that our request is illegal. I ask the National Assembly to state whether the proposal for a subsequent referendum is indeed an illegal act. For the first time, this is the ignorance of this Member; for the second time, this is an insult. An insult to the political group, which is a parliamentary group. Secondly, a serious insult was expressed that the act of one of the political parties, namely the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a subsequent referendum, was unintelligent or, if you want, domestically speaking, stupid. How does this National Assembly hope and allow its colleagues to say about what has a legal and legitimate right to be stupid? And this is for an action that protects Slovenia and Slovenian territorial integrity. I really felt like I was in the Croatian Parliament, not in the Slovenian Parliament. And please don't let that happen. Our initiative is supposed to be harmful. What for? Who is it that's hurting? In fact, it would benefit the Slovenian people. It was given because we believe in the Slovenian National Party that Slovenian interests are at risk. You all know and yourself have admitted that these interests have already been threatened before we even discussed Croatia's entry into NATO or the European Community. Everyone, first to last. It is true that this House has achieved a high result for, I will say at home, the entry of Croats into NATO. However, if you look at today's public survey in the central or one of the central Slovenian journals, what would be the outcome of the referendum decision, you will see that the result was half-and-half. 39% were polled for Slovenia ratifying the Treaty of Accession of Croatia and 38.7 Slovenia and Slovenians opposed it. And as far as I am aware of the third term, I am only a Member of the entire Slovenian people. I have the right to represent the 38.7%. Grief at me and here I thank Mr Wigel's words on how badly the Croats, who we serve in everything, are treating Slovenia. If I do, they want to beat us by stepping on our shoulders to be bigger than us. That's not fair if we want to compare. It is not nice to lobby in a way that is ugly against Slovenia, rather than speak well of ourselves; we also devour it. They are proven unfair to Slovenia by their actions, they are unfair, they are arrogant and, most painfully, they even underestimate us. And for the third time, we have been arguing or convincing each other in the Slovenian Parliament, when, colleagues and colleagues, we have done everything and more for good neighbourly relations with Croats. And they're wandering around the world, sitting at home, drinking coffee and growling. They didn't move either! Instead of arguing in Parliament, what must be done, what must Slovenia do, what must Croatia do. They didn't blink with their finger! They didn't use one word, one minute of their behavior. But we're fighting, and we've done everything for them. I'm ashamed. And once again, as a member of the Slovenian National Party today, I will vote in favour of the subsequent legislative referendum with only one goal and one wish: we do not wish to give our own. Otherwise, we do not want anything bad to the Croat neighbours, but we want much good to do with Slovenia and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I wish today we would not call for a referendum, as well as avoid collecting 40,000 signatures for the referendum on Croatia's entry into NATO. True, 30 signatures of Members or 40,000 signatures of citizens and citizens are very difficult to collect. Also, when a referendum may be called for once, a very small percentage of people usually attend this institution of universal decision-making. In the National Assembly, Slovenian policy adopted the Act ratifying the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty with an enviable high percentage. A total of 75 Members and Members in the National Assembly endorsed this Protocol, only 11 of them voted against. This is significantly more than the two-thirds majority required. We have taken even a special decision on the non-recognition of the rules of the Republic of Croatia, which violate the integrity of the Republic of Slovenia, by consensus, almost entirely, and yet one of the more peripheral political parties insists on the activities concerning the invitation to a referendum, despite being given the word that they will not do so. The proposal was also intended to have a referendum with elections to the European Parliament. It is said that for more than three months we would talk about Croatia's entry into NATO and in some ways poison the political atmosphere in Slovenia and the political atmosphere with neighbouring friendly Croatia. In addition, we would significantly narrow down the space of manoeuvre on border mediation and also on Croatia's entry into the European Union. This term of office of the National Assembly and this term of office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would rather be filled after a successful fight against the economic and financial crisis and an ever deeper recession, rather than a period of permanent conflict with neighbouring Croatia. Croatia's possible refusal to join NATO in the referendum would jeopardise the reforms implemented by the Republic of Croatia in the military sector and enforce NATO standards, weaken civil control and parliamentary control of the Croatian military, and automatically increase instability in the wider region or the Balkans. None of these three things are in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia, since the Republic of Croatia's entry into NATO means promoting reforms in the military sector of the country, which was not so long ago in the war in the Balkans, to increase civil and parliamentary control of the military and to ensure greater stability of the entire Balkan area and thus the whole of Europe. That is why I think we must do everything today to prevent the collection of 40,000 signatures for the referendum and not to sign a referendum today, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will not discuss it. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. First of all, I cannot help but dissuade the allegations that I have just heard from my colleagues and colleagues here. Severe accusations of the harmfulness of our offer, purely legal, legitimate initiatives and well-meaning initiatives for the referendum. It is sad that this is what Members and Members of Parliament have said in the 18 years that have put us in this mess. I'm sure it's not the ninety-nine newbies. And such Members and Members of Parliament have the face to tell us that we are shortening their time. How long has it been since this problem of eighteen years has not been resolved and has escalated so far that we can sit here for hours and hours, we are having an infertile debate, because we are in a corner anyway. And I'm not going to let anyone accuse me of any harmful initiatives in the future, and I'm not going to let anyone accuse me of wasting my time. How much time did you cut when you were eighteen? It's probably been hours and hours, if not months. Then a statement by another party's representative that this was a successful evening for the Slovenian Parliament today and that it is a shame that we are discussing this further. If this has been a successful evening for the Slovenian Parliament, this will show time, because we have entered into a pact with someone who occupies our territory, that we will not say any worse terms, and I do not want to be in the military pact, nor in society, nor drink coffee with him until he withdraws from my country, the land of the Slovenes. Therefore, I cannot agree in any way that Croatia is entering the NATO Pact. I don't even agree that we're Slovenians in the NATO Pact, if that's what we're on. The 1949 Washington Treaty survived its own. The geopolitical situation in Europe and around the world has changed globally. Then, speaking of which, it's all about itself and the American arms industry. And that's what we're paying for. We're paying millions of dollars because we're forced to buy a weapon that's going to rust in there after some military warehouses and it won't do any good. So, not only that, then the Pact even exacerbates the situation in Europe by setting up no rocket launchers. Russia is no longer what it was. Communism has failed, the Warsaw Pact has failed, what this Nato Pact is now. We allow the Croats to go to the NATO Pact, at least it'll hit them in the pocket, and it'll cost them when they buy that old iron, the American iron, and I don't know what Israel is. Not to mention the debt. Colleagues and colleagues, we have missed the first train since 25 June 1991. We missed the last train, that was in Bucharest. And please, did anyone then ask the Slovenian Parliament whether that government asked what we thought about Croatia's entry into the NATO Pact? No, the government did this on its own. Now all this burden has come under the burden of this Parliament, in this reference, in this mandate. Please, I'll finish. I won't be long. However, I am sure, I believe and I hope that 46 of you will vote in favour of our initiative. I'm pretty sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u127	Thank you. In the previous point, the Slovenian People's Party convinced the National Assembly that our negotiating points for the border with Croatia are on the 25th day. 6. 1991. I see no reason for us to decide on the referendum at this time. I believe, however, that we will still have many opportunities to decide on the referendums when we talk and give our neighbours our consent to join the European Union. That is why we will have this opportunity, if we do not resolve the border problems by then, to discuss the referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Yosko Godec has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Luka Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sylven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u129	Your Honors are here! The proposal of the Slovenian National Party for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to call for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Act ratifying the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty is relevant and necessary. The government has not presented all the documents that Croatia should forward to NATO, including those that prejudge the border with Slovenia. We are talking about good neighbourly relations all the time, which is by no means the case with Croatia. It is too small if Slovenia invests a lot of energy and good will in this direction, if Croatia clearly rejects it. Croatia voluntarily adopts Slovenian territory and declares its right. Some responsible and also present in the National Assembly are blindly following and sneezing the Croats. The interest of Croatia in maintaining the occupied territory of the Republic of Slovenia is unswerving, uncompromising and violent. They are not willing to admit that Slovenia has naively ambushed them and allowed them a temporary border crossing in Slovenia, which Croats now oppose and own, despite the fact that the written agreement was very clear, but by our representatives of the people is unprofessional and to the detriment of the state of Slovenia. Under the pretext that we are saving the tourist season in some way with this Croatia, it is certainly unacceptable that these negotiators should know that the territory is not being borrowed. Croatia has clearly demonstrated by its views and actions so far that it does not intend to deviate from its own views at any cost. She's taken a very aggressive tactic, and she's pushing us into an unacceptable defensive position, which is certainly not good for us. Of course, the referendum is one of the forms of democratic expression of the will of the people, and this must be respected. Giving up some other country's territory just for the sake of reputation is cynical. I don't understand how Slovenians can argue with each other, or whether we should give in to blackmailing Croats who, with a little goodwill, could solve this conflict in a moment, but they don't want to. The Croats let the Slovenians fight among themselves instead of them. It's not a problem on the Croat side, but it's a problem in ourselves. We try to fit in for good neighbourly relations, which is not detectable by Croats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. [[He won't discuss it.]] The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, there was some nonsense in this hall. Among other things, how we're going to spend, I don't know how many millions of euros for the referendum. However, Mr Školč has today demanded half a million euros to build a mosque in Ljubljana, and this is no concern of anyone. When it comes to Slovenian interests, it's a waste of money when it comes to other things, I don't know who, for every carcase, that's no problem. And if we look at how Croats treat us, I think it's no wonder that we let them treat us that way. If we look at Mr Jandrokovic's statement when he met with Bosnian Foreign Minister Alkalaj, who, by the way, is also a Croatian citizen and has a house in Slana, Jandrokovic said that anything other than Slovenia's support for Croatia's entry into NATO would not be taken into account. What are we now? Is Jandrokovic Slovenian Foreign Minister? Is he Croatian Foreign Minister? What's going on?Oh, my God! And when the Messiah speaks of his nebulosis about demanding a corridor to Austria, because we were once in a common country, and that it might be. That's bullshit! It's a simple nonsense that the moon is pleased to repeat! The media - they accept and the Slovenians - confirm. Unfortunately. It's all so fucking sad. And instead of putting ourselves on the brink of such a disgrace in the state of Slovenia, we will be delighted to welcome the Croats into the NATO Pact. And I have heard the praise of how good they are, how they let the civilian sphere into their army, how well they arm themselves, how ready they are for not knowing what they are all about. Please! What do we care how ready they are? Slovenia is in trouble. And Slovenia needs to be saved, and Slovenia needs to be taken care of! Not for neighbouring Croatia. You will see what will happen in two days and what the Croatian media will say. You'll see!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I did not mean to advertise anymore, but since some in this House do not understand the concept of 'legitimate' and 'legality', this has also been revealed to me in the presentation of the Group's position, then a little look at what is written in these stories and is such a matter. We at the parliamentary club said that this initiative was legal. Legality means legality and, in a broader sense, the legality of a social behaviour or a social institution. And there's certainly nothing to add to that. In contrast, legitimacy means, above all, eligibility, acceptability and subjective assessment. And as I told you, the concept of the legitimacy of some decision is our thing, my judgment. And so when you talk about these concepts at a time, you have to make sure of it. As far as Croatia is concerned - it is in Slovenia's interest that security is good for our neighbours, which makes security safer for us as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u135	If you'll excuse me, President, I'd like to respond to a few comments. First, I would like to answer why we support Croatia's entry into NATO. Not because any of us would ask for it. Not because Croatia would ask us to do so or because the Croatian foreign minister believes that we must do so. No, no, no. Firstly, we think Croatia is a democratic country that meets the conditions for membership. That's how they ruled 26 of Nate's allies. We think we support Croatia because it wants to go to NATO and because it is its national interest. We support stability, and stability borders are spreading south of our borders. Finally, we support it because it is better to have an ally at our borders than a frustrated neighbor. In this ratification, NATO is mixing the border issue and it is not clear why the issue of border resolution, which is a relevant issue, is mixed with this ratification of NATO. I understand that documents are particularly concerned with the Slovenian National Party. And the president mentioned the issue of documents that we say are not. We have given more documents, we have presented even more than is necessary. We presented those documents to which we agreed, as well as the Croatian documents. Croatia, when it has to present its defence plans, is not about plans, maps, but about plans for defence preparations. Neither in the process of entering NATO did we give any maps, we did not include any maps, and we do not have these maps. But because I understand that there is concern that these maps are somewhere that prejudge the border, this is the best way to solve the border issue, and then that problem is gone. I have a problem here with how the referendum solves the border issue. I understand that the referendum can stop Croatia on its way to NATO. However, it is not clear to me how this will protect Slovenia's territorial sovereignty by a referendum talking about Croatia's NATO membership. We agree on the objective, I think we are on the same side as we are on the target. But the way to it, I think they're different. We believe that the referendum is not the right way to this end or that it distances us from that goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The speaker has a request for a referendum, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The maps are in every defensive plan. Once again, I will say that our team on the mission in Brussels was unable to obtain these maps or she did not care to obtain these maps. Maps will come along in time, and then, of course, it will be said again that these are not maps or anything like that. The Croatian General Staff has drawn up some detailed plans for these maps. Not only compared to Slovenia, but also compared to Serbia and Montenegro. As far as Bosnia is concerned, there have been several different variants of these maps. Including the Republic of Serbia and without the inclusion of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, it's pointless to talk about these things here, to say that it's not. It is. But good. It's just like that. The government says it's not there, and then it's not there. We used to be used to that in the old days. I didn't know it was coming back, but it's coming back. And if the government decides there are no maps, we'll also delete them from all documents. Looks like that's gonna happen, too. If not, we will vote again on the same thing or twice, or three more times, until it is all right. I think we are wasting Slovenian national being and Slovenian national space. I'm pretty sure of that. Although some colleagues do, my political parties and our parliamentary group deny legitimacy, it would be good to remind ourselves that we are in democracy. Despite the fact that my colleagues who deny it are in the ruling coalition, we will not allow it in our client. Our initiatives are legitimate because we know how to defend them. If he looks at legitimacy differently, that's his business. But keep it quiet and don't talk nonsense. Above all, let no one in this National Assembly hang on to illegality. I think we will do it today, not in the Slovenian National Party, we will vote right. But I think you'll make a mistake. Okay. That's the decision. Democracy is such that most prevail over a minority. Of course, that's acceptable. I just hope that people will eventually miss where the mistake was, whose side was the mistake, and why and how the underlying reasons should have been the other way around. That's what you deny. It is denied for political reasons because the previous Government has promised without question in the National Assembly and without discussion in the National Assembly that Croatia will go to NATO Pact. And if Croatia is prepared and promised to go, then it must be. Then it doesn't matter what Members think anymore and even less what voters think. Voters will forget after a while what was at all, on this account, and they will vote again for those, especially not those who stand in their positions, they will, but those who turn in the wind, and forget that first. And again, they're going to sail in their boat a little in the government, a little outside the government, and then back in and out again, and so on. In short, we don't get along well, but if most people make up their minds, that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone still wish to discuss the rules of procedure of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm asking you to sign up. Bogdan Barovic applied for the debate. Mr. Barovich, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, I was privileged to have a sad speech when we buried the firstborn, the memorial bearer, the honorary citizen of the congregation of Trbovlje, the first - union prize winner. When I was driving from Celje, where Mr Aloise Ribič was buried, I listened to an excellent conversation on the radio Slovenia with Mr Erjavac, former Defence Minister. The question related precisely to this and was: "Can the possible Slovenian 'no' for Croatia's entry into NATO have consequences for Slovenia?" Mr. Erjavec said frankly and honestly from his own experience, "Yes, you can." To the question of what, he answered, "such as I have already experienced," pressured Nate against the Defence Minister of the State, Republic of Slovenia. And what are they like? And he said, "for example, they asked us to send more soldiers to Afghanistan, and such pressures will happen again." So much for all of you to know before the last moment you press that decision you're about to make.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: A legislative referendum on the implementation of the Act ratifying the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty is being opened. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 59. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 59.]] On the basis of this outcome of the vote, I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 3. On behalf of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, this is a proposal for the election of the candidate of the Republic of Slovenia to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. By letter dated 23 January 2009, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Mark Ilešić be elected as Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Eric Kerševan, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We would just like to point out that today's action by the National Assembly has concluded the process of appointing a candidate as a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities from the Republic of Slovenia, and we are very pleased that we can offer such an important institution a known and distinguished expert as Dr. Marko Ilešič. The participation of the best lawyers in the institutions of the European Union naturally enhances the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia even more widely. I would therefore like to point out that the President of the Republic of Slovenia has carried out the procedure as quickly as possible and that today this proposal is before you and therefore I ask you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. He wants a government representative? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u145	Mr. Secretary, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u146	These are the initial problems of ministers. On behalf of the Government, I would like to say that, at its meeting on 7 January, the Government addressed the request of the President of the Republic for an opinion on this candidacy and that the Government had decided that Dr Ilešič was a suitable candidate. This decision was based on extensive data on the CV and the professional activities of this distinguished lawyer, first of all the theoretics, now also practical. In this regard, I would like to clarify that there seemed to be some problems in view of the short deadlines for carrying out the procedure. However, after the assurances we have received, this will not happen. Perhaps all of this is due to the fact that the invitation to tender itself was published somewhat late on November 7, last year. In view of the above, the Government proposes that the National Assembly decide in accordance with the decision of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We will support this proposal from the President, because Mr Ilešič is a great expert. I hope that he will use all his expertise to defend Slovenian interests and that, like Croats, he will defend and lobby for our country. This may not be a legal argument, but this is a Slovenian argument. Croatia seems to be very successful in flying international policy and very successful in proving that this is the best way to achieve results. That is why I wish Mr Ilešić a successful job and as many friends as possible with other fellow lawyers and, of course, encouragement for Slovenian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble. Of course, I should present my position behind the bar, but whatever. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Good evening to you all again! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will certainly support the excellent candidate proposed by the President of our country, in agreement with the Government and the opinion of the Council of Justice. Such people, who have exceptional expertise and also important human values, can only be happy and proud in Brussels. Above all, because the candidate has already done difficult work and has certainly done so. Therefore, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will be pleased to support the proposal that will certainly strengthen Slovenia's reputation in Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! As for the previous two points, we are also needlessly late. Although more than enough time has been available, due to extremely long decision-making deadlines in the Government and in part to the President of the Republic, we will also be late this time. According to the documents, the candidate should have been decided before 15 January of this year, i.e. more than one month ago. Although we had several meetings at this time, regular and extraordinary, the proposal was not included in any session. And that's how we're going to decide today with an unnecessary delay on an undisputed candidate. The government, which requested the President of the Republic to give an opinion on the nomination of the only candidate, Dr Ilešić, received on 12 December, took almost four weeks, almost a month, to issue an opinion. And the President of the Republic waited until 7 January for the government's opinion. This once again shows that the coalition has problems with timely processing even in the simplest decisions. This coalition approach certainly does not strengthen Slovenia's reputation in the European Community. And even in this case, it is not possible to blame the opposition. If I may recall, the first two points were devoted to complications and I am delaying the ratification decisions, and this delays the appointment or proposal of a judge to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. That kind of kicks surprise us, actually. Even now, when there are no serious burdens when there are no legislative proposals, when the regulatory plan is not implemented, only one or three of the 17 laws in this programme has come to the National Assembly and two or three have passed this programme. And that surprises us so much more because we have often heard that Slovenia can lead better in the pre-election period. This is also surprising because individuals, such as the Secretary-General of the Government, who, in his previous mandate, has always had three best answers to any question he has asked himself or Members or the Government, that he is somehow unable to process such simple matters. And it's only now that you can see what can be expected of such personnel. Even in procedures where there are no dilemmas or complications, where a large majority or even all of them support the proposed candidate, such a scam will take place. It is probably more important for the Secretary-General to regulate the list of surpluses, to make a list of staff for redeployments or to write discharge decisions than to adopt in due time the opinions of the Government on the candidate for Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. At the same time, I can only remind you that only Romania will be among the delayes in this process. We also expected another candidate to run for office in the Group of Members. However, as in some previous cases, there is also no choice and it is likely that a wider range of experts who would be fit to perform important functions in the European institutions will have to wait. However, I hope that something will move in this area as well. We will support the candidate in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u154	Your Honors are here! Although it is only one candidate in this case, I think we can be happy that it is such a candidate. The professional and other qualities of Dr. Ilešič are indisputable. In his case, it is a matter of re-election to this function of Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, where the President of the Fifth Chamber of this Court is also present since last autumn. If there is a rule elsewhere, two lawyers, three opinions, it seems to me that in this case the rule of opinion of Dr. Ilešič applies. I think that despite possible concerns about any procedural shortcomings, Slovenia will be a very credible candidate in this court, and I hope that it will take particular care of the interests of law. Interests are real, which are also Slovenian interests. Of course, it is not too possible to mention all his credits for Slovenian football and sport in general. In the Group of Members, we will be very happy to support this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate of the Republic of Slovenia as Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts on Election, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Alexander Ravnikar, Ivan Grill, Franci Kek and Guido Kres. I, too, am a member of the Commission as chairman. Ms Mojca Prelesnik, Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? I see you don't. We are moving on to a decision on such a composition of the Commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid, and there shall also be invalid ballots from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting materials. The vote will begin at 9.05 p.m. and will continue until 21.20 p.m. Members who will assist me in the vote, please meet in room 217 after the vote. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 9:40. Of course, the vote begins, as mentioned at 21.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-18-SDZ5-Izredna-07.ana.u156	We continue with the suspension of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate of the Republic of Slovenia as Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate of the Republic of Slovenia for Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, Dr Mark Ilešić. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 18 February 2009. 68 ballots were distributed. 68 ballots were delivered. There were no invalid ballots. There were 68 valid ballots. 67 Members and Members voted against by one Member or Member of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Marko Ilešič was elected candidate of the Republic of Slovenia for Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg by a majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate Judge Dr. Mark Ilešić on his election. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much, good night and a nice hello.
