ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Milenko Ziherl and Milan Gumzar, until 2 p.m. I invited the President of the Government of Borut Pahor and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franceto Križanič, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 3rd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 9 July 2009 meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by considering the draft law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons, as part of the urgent procedure. You received the proposal by letter of 13. Seven. 2009 The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the voting devices, the orange light must be on the right side of the card inserted. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. I find that we are not concluding, so we will repeat the vote. We're voting. There are 37 Members and Members present. The assembly is not adjourned. I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. We'll pick it up at 10:12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. We move to a vote, which is the third time we have voted on the proposal for a broad agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 44 Members and Members present. The vote was not final. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in 30 minutes. We'll continue the session at 10.45. I inform you that after the third vote, we will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! Attention, please. Fourthly, we are voting and deciding on the proposal to extend the agenda. Please check the voting devices, the orange light must be on fire. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The Assembly will consider this item to be the 2nd point on Friday, 17 July 2009. We have not received any proposals for withdrawal from the agenda items. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference, with the addition or amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the 2009 budget for the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, to present the proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will use my introduction before the presentation of the budget rebalancing by Minister Križanič to present the circumstances that led the Government to propose this important document to this high assembly this year. In the first quarter of this year, the economic crisis in Slovenia continued to deepen as GDP fell by 6.4% in the last quarter of last year. The key reasons for such a decline are the decline in export activity, by slightly more than 21%, and investment activities, by slightly more than 23%. Both were the main factors for high economic growth in recent years. Private consumption stagnated in the first quarter and the growth of public consumption was positive. On the production side, the deepening of the added value contributed mainly to processing activities, as well as to construction and market services. Only public services maintained similar growth as last year. The value of the economic climate indicator remained unchanged in June, after which, for the first time in 16 months, it did not fall, but the promise, I must say very clearly and loudly, is still quite uncertain for the coming months. After a sharp fall of all short-term economic activity indicators in the last two months of last year, these remained in the first four months of the year and did not fall again. Current indicators suggest a slight improvement in export orders in the second quarter. For the second month in a row, the export order indicator has improved and the expected export values have also increased again over the next three months. This has also slightly improved the indicators of expected production, as processing activities in foreign markets are more than 60% of sales. However, all of these indicators remain well below the long-term level. The balance of the current balance of payments account was overstated for the first time since January 2007, due to a large reduction in the deficit in the commodity exchange. Labour market indicators are also deteriorating as the number of active workers has decreased by the number of registered unemployed 86 000 481, but growth is dying as the number of people who have lost their jobs decreases, which is also estimated to be the result of a short-term subsidisation measure. The difference between the number of people who lost their jobs and the number of unemployed who received their jobs has decreased, but remains almost once more higher than one year ago. The impact of direct and indirect economic incentives is not yet visible at this time, but we expect results to be visible at the end of this year and next year. With low economic activity and low oil and food prices, inflation in Slovenia and across the euro area has been rapidly decreasing and approaching the zero rate since June and deflation has taken place at the level of the euro area as a whole. Of course, the effect will be short-lived, as we expect inflation to rise again against long-term balance levels in the autumn. We are aware that this will lead to the need for a change in excise policy, oil derivatives, which we are also counting on in the budget balance presented. The value of the economic climate indicator remained unchanged after more than one year of decline in June. Trust has deteriorated slightly in construction and retail trade and has improved slightly in processing and service activities. The decline in short-term economic activity indicators in the euro area continues despite some signs of stabilisation. The OECD also announced that we are close to the bottom of the crisis and they are forecasting 4.8% of GDP decline this year and stagnation next year. Similarly, the expectations of other institutions are similar, among which the new forecast was announced in June by the European Central Bank, which expects a decline in GDP for the euro area this year between minus 4.1% and minus 5.1% and between minus 0% and 0.4% next year. The situation described required a new and lower assessment of revenue in all public finances and the maximum possible adjustment of expenditure due to the nature of the rebalancing, which represents a mere correction of the budget, to automatic stabilisers and less structural changes. While the economy is facing downsizing and a limited possibility of obtaining funding, the budget is facing a decline in income due to the crisis, as well as the consequences of changing the structure of taxation. The tax structure has changed in recent years to favour components that are more elastic and therefore more subject to the influence of the economic cycle. The proposed budget rebalancing will therefore significantly reduce tax revenues, which will be only for a slight over-nominal level in 2006 and almost one billion below last year's level. Let me briefly explain what is going on with the revenue side of the budget and remind you of what the Government has done with the first rebalancing this year. With the definitive abolition of the tax on paid wages, tax revenues will be reduced by an additional 230 million this year, due to a lower tax rate of lower economic performance in last year and certain anti-crisis measures adopted, the revenue from the profit tax will be reduced by 510 million and will almost halve compared to last year. The expenditure side of the budget has not adjusted to a lower extent in tax reforms, on the contrary, the scope of legal obligations has increased. Thus, the expenditure side of the budget is relatively current, since more than three quarters of the budget expenditure is determined by legal rights or obligations which we did not want to change due to the economic situation described above. This will be decided when the 2010 and 2011 budget is drawn up. The total volume of the necessary reduction has been determined by assessing the maximum possible budget deficit in this year, which will not jeopardise public financial stability in the future. We have ruled that the proposed budget deficit of 5% would further ensure that over the next two to three years, depending on the speed of recovery of the economy, they can again provide a government deficit below the 3% limit. This will be possible with a restrictive spending policy in the coming years, which will require some important structures also in the form of structural reforms. In my view, the proposal for a rebalancing is good and the content of the proposed redistribution of expenditure is optimal in the light of the changed circumstances. The Minister will complete my introduction. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister of Finance, Dr. Frances Križanič, to present the 2009 Draft Balance of Budget. Mr. Križanic, for the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present my part of the second balance that we accept in a situation of acute financial and economic crisis. The budget is one of the most important economic policy acts in each country. In a small, open economy, which is part of a wider monetary union, the budget is probably the most important act of economic policy. During the current period of crisis created by the asymmetric fluctuation of economic activity in a modern mode of management, based on flexible information and telecommunications technologies, and on the very strong interdependence between financial entities in particular throughout the global market - we call this interconnection a systemic risk - there has been a need for an economic policy response in both monetary and fiscal areas. For the first time in history, the world has reacted relatively uniformly. Economic policy responses were uniform and concerned both monetary and fiscal policies. The European Union, of which we are part, reacted with a free monetary policy of the European Central Bank, the advantages of which we were given to a great extent in Slovenia, and with a specific plan of harmonised fiscal policy adopted at Ecofin and then at the Council of the European Union last December, and we named it "The Economic Recovery Plan". In this context, the first balance of the budget was drawn up, which, as an integral part of other fiscal policies of the European Union countries, with a strong expansion fiscal policy, contributed its contribution to tackling the consequences of the financial crisis, as well as to the ideas for the start of economic growth. His effects should show up in the summer months. If they are too small, a new one will have to be adopted in the autumn, an even stronger injection at European level to put an end to this crisis. It turned out - we had several similar crises, the first was in 1987 and since then there have been at least two more - that after a certain period of economic optimism again prevails, demand again begins to increase and economic growth returns. Our exit strategy after the end of the crisis will depend on how fast and how strong this growth will return. What have we done to this day? To date, we are in a monetary area that is regulated according to our membership in the European Monetary Union. So, in particular, under all the rules and restrictions that the Union gives us, we first accepted, before we were established as economic policy holders, a guarantee from banks to the population already in this Parliament; it is said that there is a 100% guarantee of nutritional contributions. We then accepted a guarantee to perform on the interbank market; it is said, a guarantee to banks that they can draw funds on the global interbank market, in particular on the European interbank market. The first such project is now being completed. It was difficult to perform because the banks understood it as stigmatization. Then we chose a guarantee or accepted a guarantee from banks to economies. This project is already underway. And now, I think tomorrow, we will re-accept the guarantee from banks to the population to facilitate life in this crisis to the most affected and vulnerable parts of the economy, as well as to encourage construction as a particular sector. At the same time, with the second balance of the budget, we have increased public finances. According to my assessment, with a multiplier total effect on about 7% of GDP. If it had not been accepted, the decline in economic activity would have been even worse by 7%, but of course the significant decline comes from export demand and the decline in the share of investment demand linked to economic optimism. In the first rebalancing of the budget, where we have also adopted measures coordinated with the European Union and adopted not to Ecofin and then to the Council of Europe, we have begun to introduce the qualitative incentives for economic growth that have been missing in our previous economic policy. This was in particular the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in increased investment activities and the launch of intensive activities by the Technology Agency to promote the implementation of new products and new technologies in larger companies as well. This is where the calls came in. We expect that there will be a major shift through significantly better quality and faster introduction of technological progress into our economy, by raising quality, increasing market share and finally in the balance of higher wages and higher standards of our population. The activity of the Slovenian Export and Development Company, which we have recapitalised, has also been linked to this by allowing it to take part in the global capital market and the placement of quality credits for the development projects of the Slovenian economy. This bank has an important link with the European Investment Bank, where we have also started to use funds to promote technological development, partly in the field of energy and to a lesser extent in road construction than was the case in previous systems. In the first rebalancing, we also opened funds for Wencher capital. I think that this capital will be conceived by law in the autumn period and that it will then be able to work. This will be an important shift in the economy in Slovenia, as this venture capital fund allows small businesses to grow into large enterprises. We've had a great manna here in the past. We have devoted much of the balance to actions on the labour market that will enable the crisis not to increase poverty, allowing everyone to be given adequate assistance in retraining, finding new jobs or simply helping them find a solution to their existence if they find themselves in an unfavourable position. The second balance of the budget is adopted due to a fall in income and savings on the side of material costs and slightly reduced investments. With this, we have reduced the multiplier effect, but we remain within the framework that the European Union has asked of us or asked for, but we will also reduce the pressure on interest payments and debt pressures in the coming years. I'm just going to introduce the structure a little bit more. The main reasons for the budget's proposed rebalancing are: different trends in budgetary revenues from forecasts and different forecasts of macroeconomic aggregates, those on which the budget was based - at that time we expected stagnation -; different expected revenues from the pension fund and consequently higher transfer expenditure from the state budget to the pension fund amounting to EUR 125 million; changes in some measures to mitigate the economic and financial crisis; a new balance between the expected budgetary revenues and the maximum possible expenditure at a higher budget deficit. The proposed national budget rebalancing provides for revenues that will be lower for a good 1.7% of gross domestic product or 617 million euros than last year's realisation and 2.4% of gross domestic product or 863 euros less than originally planned budgetary expenditure. The adjusted budget expenditure, which will also provide EUR 125 million of additional transfer expenditure to the pension fund for the smooth payment of all pension rights, will be lower than the budget adopted by 0.4% or 157 million. This is the net deficit that we introduce with this rebalancing. Therefore, we call it a technical rebalancing, without great substantive emphasis. The budget deficit will amount to €1.8 billion or 5% of gross domestic product after this rebalancing and will be 2% higher than originally planned, but lower than the average of our partners, the Member States of the European Union. The revenue budget takes into account the new macroeconomic forecasts and we are therefore planning 7 billion 920 million euros in revenue. Of these, €6 billion 727 million in tax revenue, €352 million in non-tax revenue, €27.3 million in capital income, donations and transfer revenue, and €814 million in the European Union budget. We have formed specific working groups, which have managed to improve pumping, so that efficiency is significantly improved according to the structure we inherited when we take over economic policy. Newly planned revenues for 2009 are lower than the approved budget of €863 million or 9.8%, i.e. tax revenues of €746 million or 10.2%, and tax revenues of €38.6 million or 9.9%. The funds received from the European Union budget are lower than €60 million or 6.8%. Tax revenues accounted for the most reduction in value added tax revenue by €400 million, corporate income tax by €310 million and income by €62 million. Due to the new assessment of the capacity to implement certain projects, the funds derived from the European Union budget for the aforementioned EUR 60 million are also lower. Expenses. The expenditure of the state budget is reduced by EUR 157 million by this new rebalancing. Due to the statutory obligations of the state budget to the pension fund and the reduced original income of the pension fund, budgetary expenditure should be increased by EUR 125 million. In order for the budget deficit to remain within sustainable limits, the remaining budget expenditure had to be reduced by EUR 282 million. The total reduction in the expenditure of the state budget, as mentioned above, amounts to EUR 157 million. Additional liabilities for pension funds, anti-crisis financing, increased expenditure on social security, contractual obligations to be incurred for military equipment payments and the removal of funds from the European budget reduces the possibility of a greater reduction in budgetary expenditure in the short term. The total reduction in expenditure on goods and services is material, according to the budget adopted, of EUR 55.2 million for direct budget users. If we add to this the part covered by the transfers of public institutions is the total volume of the reduction in material costs of EUR 68 million. The projected level is 2% higher than that achieved in 2008, with an overall increase of €38 million in expenditure on equipment in the military and police, despite the fact that we have reduced this expenditure by a new balance. If we deduct from this group of budget expenditure expenditure expenditure expenditure on specific materials and services, where we consider the expenditure on purchases of military and police equipment, then the expenditure on goods and services is reduced by a good 2% below the 2008 level. Taking into account the significant increase in funding for projects financed from European funds, which is why the volume of expenditure on goods and services in this year's budget increases by almost €14 million compared to last year's, means that budget users have reduced expenditure on goods and services, such as regular expenditure, by a good 4% below last year's level. In the context of expenditure on specific material services, funds of EUR 28 million for the payment of the first delivery of Patria 8x8 are planned for the implementation of contractual obligations from last year. Total investment expenditure is declining by EUR 118 million in relation to the balance sheet of two, which still means almost 24% more than the investment expenditure achieved in last year's economic year, which the government still sees as a positive contribution to economic growth. In doing so, they will remain in the development programme plan almost entirely for projects whose implementation is not questionable this year. Despite the decrease in total funds for investment, funds for investment transfers to municipalities are increasing, where we will respect the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and we anticipate additional investment transfers to municipalities amounting to €50 million, which will be financed mainly from the revenue of the European budget, and will in particular represent more projects for regional infrastructure and the establishment of broadband networks for electronic communications in municipalities. This is one of the anti-crisis measures financed directly from the European budget and in line with the economic growth recovery plan adopted last December at the Council of Europe. All investment programmes have been re-evaluated in terms of both the projected implementation dynamics and the value of each project. In particular, projected expenditure on new construction, reconstruction and adaptations - a reduction of €37.8 million - and project documentation, supervision and investment engineering - has been reduced to €36.2 million. At the same time, budgetary users have also carried out a rationalisation of the envisaged purchases of buildings and premises and transport assets totalling €7.9 million. The developmental orientation of the budget as a strategic definition of the current economic policy and coalition. Despite the austerity measures, the developmental orientation of the budget remains reflected in the proposal for a rebalancing. Despite the decline in funds for some budgetary purposes, key development areas continue to increase significantly compared to 2008 and even in previous years. Thus, the cost or expenditure of the economic budget increases by EUR 552 million in A and B, amounting to EUR 820.4 million in 2009, representing a 206% increase or a 106% increase in relation to last year. Science, technology and technological development are increasing by 50% or 106 million euros compared to 2008, and education is increasing by 7.4%, but by 118 million euros. The government would like to devote more resources to the country's development projects, but under these tight fiscal conditions, only those programmes that we can implement this year and which are estimated to be the most effective. The restructuring of the budget will require more funding for programmes with positive development effects in the coming years, and political agreement will also have to be sought to end or reduce programmes that do not have such effects or have minor positive effects. To think that only investment is a development-oriented budget, of course, is not appropriate, although, in particular, in times of economic crisis, investment financed from public funds is significantly encouraged or maintained by individual parts of the economy. Despite the fact that the proposal for a rebalancing reduces funds for investment, the growth of funds unchanged from 2008 is clear and we can say that the budget is still development-oriented and macro-economically expansive from this point of view. We will continue to meet with the adoption of a development-oriented budget, a new budget structure that will also allow Parliament to look at the expected effects of individual development programmes, in particular since we will combine budgetary planning with indicators of the impact achieved and the expected effects of individual public financial policies, while at the same time we will have to adopt an exit strategy at this high assembly, it is correct to limit expenditure to levels that will allow a reduction of the budget deficit and, during the period of the transition, also the achievement of the budgetary surplus. We have a lot of work to do here, and I think we will find an appropriate consensus and that Slovenia will also be successful in this area and will still be among the more developed European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft budget balance was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. To Anton Rope for presentation of the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u8	Dear Members, Members, Government representatives, Mr President of the Government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a rebalancing at its 14th meeting. Seven. 2009 In their opening remarks, the government stressed that the main reason for its submission was an exceptional reduction in budgetary revenues, resulting from the global financial and economic crisis. The proposal for a rebalancing is mainly for two sets of expenditure reductions, namely in the area of material costs and, in particular, in the field of investment, for almost EUR 100 million, while the proposaler sought to maintain the developmental orientation of the budget as well. According to the proposal for a rebalancing ahead of us, the budget deficit will amount to €1.8 billion or 5% of gross domestic product and will be 2% higher than originally planned, which, according to the proposaler, will still be slightly below the average level of the budget deficits of partner countries in the European Union. In the debate on the Committee, opposition members of the Committee made critical assessments on the proposed balance, which dealt in particular with the issue of the size of the projected deficit and the way in which it was covered. The evidence of undevelopmental orientation and the excessive amount of expenditure devoted to financing the State or the public sector, rather than promoting economic activity and technological breakthroughs, as well as the lack of respect for the latest macroeconomic forecasts in the preparation of the proposal for a rebalancing which, according to the opposition, is therefore not realistic, is not development-oriented and is therefore likely to be expected in the autumn of this year's rebalancing. In the debate on the proposed rebalancing, some members of the Committee stressed its crisis character. In particular, the fact that the deficit could be reduced if public finances were more cost-effective during the economic period, more savings and not politically desirable increases in future public finances are made in the short-term and long-term unsustainable burdens on public finances. As a result, the current government is obliged and obliged to implement certain projects of the former government, which were adopted without the provision of sustainable financial coverage. At the conclusion of the general debate, representatives of the Government specifically pointed out that this time the National Assembly adopts the so-called savings rebalancing. However, some Members have warned that this is not primarily a balance of savings, but a balance sheet for reducing the country's investment and increasing its indebtedness. Dear Members! The Committee identified up to 27 amendments to qualified candidates submitted in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not support any of them. In the context of the examination of the amendments tabled, the Committee has given the utmost attention to the amendments made by some Members, who, in view of the fact that the Ljubljanas had not received the necessary and promised funding in the amendment to the Law on the Financing of the Communities and that, despite the promises and assurances made by the previous and current Government of Ljubljana in accordance with the Main City Act, they have not received the necessary and also the promised funds, they have submitted amendments to at least partially fulfil the promises made by the two Governments and provide the Ljubljana with at least some of the necessary resources. The signatories of the amendments thus propose co-financing of some extremely important investments for Ljubljana, in particular in the area of non-profit housing supply - the deficit is far-reaching in Ljubljana, in Slovenia there are more than 2500 such apartments - and in the area of environmental rehabilitation. Despite the principle of support for the necessary search for a system-wide solution to the under-funding of the capital of Slovenia, the proposed amendments on the committee were not supported, but the promise that the funding problem for Ljubljana as the capital would be resolved within the framework of the following budgets. In the context of the consideration of the amendments, in particular those tabled by the SDS Group, it was reiterated that the budget item on the return on investments in the public telecommunications network, which is planned to amount to EUR 38 million, or to the fictitivity of this budget item within the framework of the user of the Ministry of Finance, was controversial. In the debate, the representatives of the Government argued that the State was in favour of these funds. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] After a decision by the Court of Auditors, it is incumbent on the Court of Justice to order until such time as it sells the shares of Telekom. [[...]] The Committee, as has been said, as a mother of labour, does not support any of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! The 2009 state budget was prepared and adopted in 2007. To date, there have been huge deviations in most macroeconomic indicators for 2009. Let me just point out a few. In the first quarter, the economic crisis in Slovenia continued to deepen as GDP fell by 6.4 per cent over the last quarter of last year. Compared to the first quarter, it was 8.5% lower. Labour market indicators are also deteriorating, where the number of active workers is decreasing and the number of unemployed registered in June was still increasing, which was already 86,481, and the rate was 8.8%. The credit activity of domestic banks, according to data from the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, remains modest as the banks approved loans of a good quarter of the same period last year during the first five months of the year. So, that's Umar's data. For six months we have been dealing with the banking system and the liquidity crisis of the Slovenian economy. Most of the crisis measures were intended to release the credit crunch. And what have we achieved? Statistically, I stress, the statistics found almost nothing worth mentioning. With these facts, we can give precisely to those, for example, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who claim that the measures so far are ineffective, unfortunately. According to Umar, even the loans were paid off net by the companies. I stress, I repeat, that according to Umarje, the credit companies even paid off net. What does that mean? This means that there are no effects of six years of crisis dealing with the banking system, but we have achieved almost, we can say, counter-effect. Instead of releasing the liquidity assets and giving up the credit crunch, companies even reduce the net debt to Slovenian banks. If that is true, if you are held by the statement of Umar, the esteemed President of the Government, something is seriously wrong. Who, then, bypasses liquidity problems for whom? Banks to companies or vice versa. The key reasons for the fall in GDP already in the above mentioned amount, i.e. eight and a half percent, are two: a decline in export activity by 21% and a fall in investment activity by 23.6%. We all know that for the first reason, any direct influence is difficult. Our exports depend on the economic climate and consumption in the countries to which we export most. So it will increase once the economic climate is stabilised on a European scale, of course also on a global scale, unless individual companies are able to do something on their own in this area by searching for new markets. On the other hand, investment activity can be affected through public sector investments and private sector investments. In explaining the budget, let us see the assessment that the investment orientation of the budget, despite the austerity measures, is still reflected in this proposal for a rebalancing. In response to my question, honourable Prime Minister, you have said that the Government for the Economy is spending EUR 552 million, which is twice as much as was envisaged in the basic budget. An additional 106 million is earmarked for science and technological development, an additional 118 million for education and knowledge transfer. Overall, according to you, 24% more resources than were realized last year, which is a positive contribution to the recovery of economic growth and this is certainly good. On this occasion, I would point again to the position of Umarja in the updated autumn forecast of economic developments in the work that assesses the effects of economic policy measures on mitigating the effects of the financial crisis on economic movements, and I quote: "It is worth stressing that the increase in expenditure in small, open economies such as Slovenia has a relatively limited range due to a smaller fiscal multiplier, while higher expenditure increases the public financial deficit and thus public debt, irrespective of the size of the economy. So the same increase in public debt in small economies is driven by smaller incentives in the economy. Increasing public debt increases risk and risk premiums, which may lead to Slovenia's perception of financial market participants getting worse or worse than other euro area countries." End of quote. We estimate that at 1.8 billion or 5% of the deficit is dangerously close to this limit, if we have not even crossed it. In your reply to my question, you also said that, with such a deficit, public finances are still sustainable and debt will not go beyond acceptable limits. The Magnetogram also records your assurance that today's problems will not be passed on to the shoulders of the next generation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we hope so. So we can find that public sector investments have reached a dangerous high limit in terms of the circumstances, maximum if you want. We are therefore left with only a reflection on how to stimulate private sector investments; investments that will trigger the Slovenian economy and provide longer-term economic productivity. This is an area where, in our view, too little has been done. As I said before, most of the measures aimed at the banking system have not shown the best effects. However, the measures aimed at the economy are unfortunately aimed, so to speak, only at extinguishing the fire, but not at stimulating economic activity. The first and only measure to be taken in this direction is the measure of the guarantee scheme for loans to the economy. This isn't going as well as you'd like. According to some data, most of these funds will be for reprogramming existing loans and not for new loans, i.e. for new investments. So what can we do or do? It is imperative that the Slovenian economy be encouraged to start investing or to encourage investment activity. In our opinion, at this point they can reverse the course of events as they are. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have therefore prepared a new proposal to supplement the Law on corporate income tax, which will give a temporary incentive to all types of investments in order to rewind this round. Public investment has therefore reached its maximum under the circumstances. A further increase of these can only be expected from the private sector, of course with an appropriate initial incentive. Finally, the last area that would be touched in this recital with regard to the adoption of the balance sheet. The public administration must share the fate of the Slovenian economy, whether we like it or not. It is a menacing finding that, in fact, expenditure on goods and services, i.e. public consumption, is increasing from the balance sheet to the balance sheet. If we deduct the funds taken from the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of weapons, we will quickly find that the net consumption of public administration is increasing. On the one hand, we will bring the Slovenian Army to its knees and the public sector behaves as if it lives in another time, in the other world. On the numbers by which I will support this implementation, and on the following, when I speak on my behalf. This is, in our opinion, unacceptable and irresponsible. Dear Prime Minister, in your reply on Monday, you told me that you have been very serious about reducing the costs of public administration since the beginning of February this year, when you adopted the starting points for austerity measures of which 46 have been taken so far. Unfortunately, apart from you or your cabinet, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Public Administration, obviously nobody takes these measures seriously. Who's the boss here, would you say my fellow Member Guido? So in the SLS Group, we believe and believe that more could be done in the area of savings or public consumption. At the very least, what they would show would be the respect and responsibility of our citizens and citizens, who for the most part share the hard and severe fate of the Slovenian economy. Thus, the public administration must share the fate of the Slovenian economy with its use and all employees in the public administration must accept it. More than that, in our individual thinking about this balance that lies ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues, especially to the President of the Government, the ministerial team, about which he would say that they have done an important job in preparing the budget, and the assessment of the Liberal Democracy Club is that you have done the work in good quality and correct. Something you don't have you can't share. The balance of the budget is not ideal, but it seems to me that it is, of course, ready on a realistic basis. If we are trying to briefly describe the second balance of the 2009 budget, we can say as pessimists that it is necessarily evil, but if we are optimistic, we can say that it is the best thing to do in this situation or in this crisis moment. The reasons for the new, we can call it the crisis rebalancing are mainly in the fact that the changed economic situation dictates a reduction in the revenue side of the budget, and these changed economic conditions are also reflected through a severe fall in gross domestic product, which has a bearing on the fall in income from the budget. As everyone is aware, data show for the first quarter, and the opposition is so pleased to point out that the gross domestic product decreased by 8.5% in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the quarter of 2008. According to the Slovenian Statistical Office, the biggest declines in investment in fixed assets were also measured in all forms of investment, such as investments in construction buildings - less by 22%, and a strong fall in investments in machinery and equipment, where investments are indeed lower by up to 27%. Exports and imports also decreased significantly at the beginning of this year. These are, of course, the consequences of the global crisis. This crisis did not arise in Slovenia, and the only key to a solution is unfortunately not in the area of Slovenia. However, it is necessary to be honest and correct when citing the data. 8.5% of the decline is detected only in the first quarter, it is said, measured only according to the first quarter, while at the annual level the latest forecasts of recognised international institutions, say, the European Commission, Umarja, say that the decline in economic growth will be 3.4%, or if we take into account the World Bank, 3%, Business Monitor International is 5%, some other 4%. In general, in the end, Umar's forecast is a 4% decline in gross social product at the annual level. And these are the real and necessary bases that must be taken into account in both revenue and expenditure planning. I think the government here has done the right thing, the best it can do. Several of the most frequent criticisms about the free fall of gross social product, inadequate, too slow measures and so on are cited. Of course, time also shows that the solutions proposed by critics and they persist in repeating them are not responding to the challenges of this time. In order to be more objective, I will also quote the European Commission's opinion on the anti-crisis measures that were written in June 2009 in the publication of Public Finance in the European Monetary Union. I quote: "Further support to the economy should be with swifter decisions by both governments, past and present." On the part of the previous and current government - once again, it must be honest and acknowledged that everything is not so pink from before and that everything is not so bad from now on. Let us all acknowledge that the painting is not yet as black as the image of the opposition. As we have also seen in the print media, the famous credit rating house has not changed Slovenia's credit ratings in any way, while it has been reduced, for example, to Luxembourg, Portugal and others. In this house they also add that Slovenia remains one of the safer countries for business in Central and Eastern Europe and that Slovenia's rating does not deteriorate, as it still poses a low risk of financial instability. What if we go back to the budget rebalancing? In fact, the facts mentioned above about the fall of the social product have led to an additional decrease in revenue, with a second balance of 863 million below the budget adopted. This in numbers means that we will realize around €7.9 billion in revenue. Logically, the biggest reductions are planned by tax revenue. However, we are probably justifiably concerned about the poorer realisation of income by also using EU funds. Even though we know that this money is not permanently lost, and this poor dynamic of using this money poses some additional risks, so that we do not talk about costs, lost opportunities. However, if we analyse the expenditure side of the budget, despite the various anti-crisis measures for which large amounts of money are allocated and despite the increase in social transfers due to increased unemployment, the government has managed to reduce total expenditure by as much as €157 million by certain austerity measures, which is an important and valuable achievement. When we look at the difference between income and expenditure, we get the budget deficit, which is due to the above-mentioned facts, which is a relatively higher reduction in income compared to reduced expenditure, increased by 2 percentage points according to the first rebalancing, and will be EUR 1.8 billion and measured in gross domestic product 5 percent of gross social product. The public deficit of all four cash registers will amount to around 5.5% of the gross social product. We are also all aware that these deficits are significantly higher than the Maastricht macro-financial framework or Stability Pact, but in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that the social security of citizens and the start-up of the economy is still a vital interest of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will temporarily accept the exceedance of these restrictions. At the same time, we expect the Government to have a plan to remedy this deficit and the associated external debt, which will increase significantly. As we have already stressed in the debate on the first budget rebalancing, we expect early action, but also concrete action in terms of long-term deficit and external debt reduction. Such views will be strongly enforced within this government coalition, as we are aware of the importance of the country's macroeconomic stability in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. On the other hand, it is satisfactory for the Government to save on expenditure on goods and services, since the total reduction, together with transfers to the public service, will amount to around 68 million euros. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome such austerity measures, because these expenditure is those with which something to save, without significantly jeopardising the development activities of the country. In doing so, we believe that some additional reserves could be sought, and there is still a number of efforts to be made. In the field of investment, however, although investment is one of the key drivers of economic warming through the country's consumption and economic development itself, a rebalancing is planned to reduce investment expenditure by almost €100 million. In the House of Members, we are aware that the budget is limited and that due to the crisis we need to adapt to the situation, but in the light of past investment experience, we will be careful to monitor the very implementation of investments. We will pay particular attention to the fact that only those investments that represent actual priorities and are, of course, urgently needed will really be implemented. The third set of important expenditure is the expenditure financed by the EU, which is reduced by €64 million in the proposed balance with respect to the budget already adopted. Noting that, despite the planned lower implementation of the expenditure, these funds have not yet been lost, we believe in the Parliamentary Club that the Government must pay particular attention to how to improve the efficiency of the use of these funds. That is why it is so important that the most priority projects that deserve co-financing are identified as soon as possible, of course, under the most important condition - that this project is also realistic in practice. In these times of crisis, we must not paint too many castles in the clouds about ideal super projects, but we must take advantage of what we have been given. If I reshape the Slovenian proverb, then I should say as follows: better Brussels Euros for real projects in the Slovenian budget than Slovenian Euros in the Brussels Treasury for idealised projects. This is particularly important in the fact that the EU funds are the only nominal source of the budget, which is not directly dependent on the economic activity of our country, but because the European Union is only reserving this money for Slovenia, and of course we must be able and ready to make use of it. If we move to the area of anti-crisis measures, we have been able to see that funding for full-time subsidisation is falling by €177 million in this package, so in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia we expect that the funds will be reallocated into even better measures and we welcome the so-called low-value measure, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. In our parliamentary group, we also welcome the additional provision of funds for the continuation of the implementation of the instruments through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, especially such as the P1a and P1b tenders for guarantees of a subsidised interest rate, since they have in the past proved to be very attractive and demanded by entrepreneurs. An important message is that measures that are interesting and effective continue to be implemented, with the ultimate objective of relaunching this economic crisis. Despite the relative reduction in technological development resources in the light of the budget adopted, we strongly support the increase in funds for the so-called SMER call for small and medium-sized enterprises for technology projects. If the tender for guarantees with a subsidised interest rate has proved effective in increasing the liquidity of the company, the SMER tender has proved to be effective in promoting technological development projects of small and medium-sized enterprises and this is good. We also believe that special attention should be paid to Mura, MIP, LTH and similar problems. In alleviating the social consequences, however, it must not only remain so, but people must also be shown what they will do tomorrow, what they will do tomorrow. Before the rhetoric of healthy kernels, perspective programmes and the like, it is necessary to present concrete operational plans, concrete solutions, what kind of personnel workers can hope for future employment in companies that will be made up of those who fail to survive. With concrete measures today, social pressures must be addressed so that tomorrow these people can see the future of jobs that must reach beyond one year. Due to a lack of courage and a lack of thoughtfulness in the past, in these times of crisis, you don't want to bite into this sour apple. In the near future, we want to see how budget resources will focus as much as possible on this aspect of co-financing, where the criteria for redistributing money, raising added value to the employee and promoting the production of high-tech products that we will be able to export in the long term. For many years it has been seen as the structural weakness of the Slovenian economy just too little added value to the employee. This was the result of too mild structural reforms or adjustments in the past, but not only at the expense of the previous government, more should be done before. Indeed, we must be aware that only sufficient added value brings safe jobs and a socially sensitive country. And if I finish, we will support the proposed budget crisis balance in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, although I think that we will all do it together with a rather bitter taste, which unfortunately, because of the global crisis, we cannot sweeten in any way. But the past teaches us that the Slovenians know, can and want to succeed, but without some clear vision or solid concept, where we see each other in 20 years, there will be no success. Nor will this success be without a carefully designed operational plan or strategies to do so. Therefore, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we call on everyone to make a serious and responsible budget for 2010 and 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. The second rebalancing proposal was created due to the need to adapt the new macroeconomic situation, which led to the second rebalancing of negative 4% of economic growth, resulting in an automatic reduction in the tax revenues and incomes of the pension treasury, whose hole of EUR 125 million will have to be covered by the state budget. In view of this additional increase in transfers to the pension fund, it was necessary to reduce and restructure budgetary expenditure. As a result of the change in the economic growth forecast, the total volume of consolidated revenues of the four public finances will fall by almost €1.1 billion compared to the forecasts of the adopted state budget rebalancing. State budget revenues will be cut the most. As a result of the reduction in the number of employees and lower wage growth, income from contributions to pensions and health care will also be lower, totalling EUR 200 million, of which EUR 130 million to pension and EUR 70 million to health allowance, requiring an additional transfer from the state budget to the pension fund, thus amounting to EUR 125 million and causing a deficit in the health treasury at the level I mentioned. On the basis of the facts presented, additional austerity measures were needed to reduce the hole created by the changed macroeconomic situation. Taking into account the new macroeconomic forecasts and the functioning of automatic stabilisers and government expenditure without measures planned by the Government with the proposed balance sheet, the government deficit would increase from 3.4% to 6.4% of GDP this year. The proposed rebalancing of the budget reduces the general government deficit to 5.5% of GDP. For this reason, the budget had to exclude all investment projects for which there was a guarantee that they would not be realized by the end of the year and that they could not be implemented. Despite the reduction in funding for investment projects, the budget remains development-oriented compared to the 2008 budget. Key development areas are still significantly increasing compared to the previous year and even in previous years. This increases the economy by 552 million and amounts to €820 million in 2009, representing a 206% increase. The area of science and technological development is increasing by almost 50% and 106 million euros and education, which is also increasing by 118 million euros and 7.4% respectively in 2008. The government wants to devote more resources to the country's development projects, but only those programmes that can be implemented this year and which are estimated to be the most effective under these acute fiscal conditions. The restructuring of the budget will require more funding for programmes with positive development effects in the coming years, and political consensus will also need to be found to reduce programmes that do not have these effects or have minor positive effects. Due to the new macroeconomic situation, new anti-crisis measures are also in the new 2009 budget balance. In order to implement the intervention law on partial full-time subsidisation, EUR 230.4 million was allocated to the adopted budget. In view of the lower integration of employees in employers from the originally planned implementation of this measure, the funding for this measure is falling to €53 million. This law allows the maximum number of jobs to be maintained at the time of the downsizing of contracts and the reduction of production. According to the Minister of Labour, these subsidies are intended to maintain 8,000 jobs. At the same time, funds shall be provided for a new measure intended for companies with a reduced operating volume of up to half. To this end, a new Law on Partial Reimbursement of Salaries has already been adopted, allowing businesses to assign workers to temporary waiting for work, with the State covering part of the employer’s costs under the law of a certain compensation. EUR 47.6 million is foreseen for this purpose. The proposed intervention law aims to preserve as many jobs as possible in the context of the global economic crisis with the aim of keeping as many people working as possible and thereby preserving their rights and reducing the pressure on open unemployment. The proposed law therefore aims to maintain up to 25,000 jobs in companies facing reduced operating levels and to train employees in these companies to acquire new skills and skills and their pre-qualification or re-qualification. In the context of intervention measures, funds amounting to €40 million are also planned for the low-value aid implementation programme, which is one of the measures, a package of measures to help businesses during the financial crisis. Activities such as self-employment and re-employment of employees or groups of employees will be carried out under this programme. As an intervention measure, expenditure is also foreseen for the implementation of the Special Supplement Act of 15 million euro. This is an intervention law, which was also adopted by the National Assembly yesterday by vote. Under this law, the socially disadvantaged will receive a single amount for their existing remuneration. The amount of the allowance will range from €80 to €200, depending on the income of the family or individual. Its purpose is to alleviate social pressures due to the economic crisis. In addition, funds are planned in the budget balance sheet for possible needs for the recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, New Bank of Maribor. At present, the capital adequacy of those banks, based on the supervisor’s findings, is relatively high, but in the current situation of the global financial and economic crisis where the duration and depth are unpredictable, must be ensured that a rapid response is possible in the event of changes that would negatively affect the financial capacity of banks. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats supports the proposed willingness of the State to recapitalise the state bank in the event of a deterioration. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we can certainly assess that the balance is going in the right direction and is an appropriate response to the changed situation. This is also confirmed by the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission's estimates. These institutions assess that anti-crisis measures are timely, appropriate and temporary. They are also temporary because the deficit of 5.5% of GDP is unsustainable in the long term and structural reforms are therefore needed to increase the sustainability of public finances and structural reforms to increase the competitiveness of the economy. However, structural reforms require an intergenerational agreement that goes beyond the mandate of one government. For example, let me mention Ireland, which has adopted a social agreement between 2006 and 2015. As a result, development dialogue is certainly an introduction to such an agreement. Slovenia, as a small, open economy, must be prepared for future recessions and other external shocks. This can only be achieved through structural reforms. Restructuring of the economy and promotion of job creation based on higher added value is needed. This is also encouraged by the Government through a development-oriented budget and through the preparation of a programme-oriented budget for 2010 and 2011. Slovenia could be better prepared for recession if the previous government carried out structural reforms and created reserves for worse times. But she didn't do it. As a result, the manoeuvre of this government is limited. Nevertheless, the Government is preparing new and new anti-crisis measures. Anti-crisis measures are prepared in a timely and not too fast manner, which is why the most difficult quarter will see a guarantee scheme already in place. We also now accept a guarantee scheme for natural persons. This law will provide a state guarantee for new loans from young families and employees for a certain period of time and guarantee and refinance the loans of those who have lost their jobs since the start of the crisis, with the introduction of 100% of the state guarantee. As a result, both guarantee schemes will help to boost economic growth in the second half of this year. However, the proposed second budget rebalancing for 2009 must also be adopted in order for all anti-crisis measures to work. With regard to the current global economic situation, it should be pointed out that the global economy is at the beginning of the end of the recession. At the beginning of the trial. Financial conditions have improved more than expected due to interventions and due to recent data giving positive signs. Of course, the recession is not over and it will be a long-term recession. Nevertheless, the International Monetary Fund improved the April forecast for economic growth for 2009 and 2010. Positive signs in Germany also show that the economic situation for Slovenia can be improved. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have committed ourselves to the balance of economic and social development by the performance of our government. The above mentioned interventions in the economic field, investments in the field of the economy and the package of measures that we have already taken in the National Assembly to preserve jobs, of course, with a view to following the objective that I have said is still important for the Group of Social Democrats; hence, the balance of economic and social development. In view of the above, of course only one logical conclusion can be drawn. The Social Democrats Group will support the proposed budget balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Janez Janša, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Respectable, colleagues and colleagues. President, members and members of the Government. We have before us a debate on the balance of the budget; the corrections to the correction, that is. Today we are not discussing and deciding how to correct the 2009 budget, which would have been planned at a time when the crisis had not yet taken over Slovenia or during the previous government. We are correcting the budget adopted by the current government and the current government coalition just a few months ago. Four months ago, the government coalition, with this first rebalancing or amending the budget for this year, dramatically increased its consumption, although new alert estimates on economic developments in this year were already available a few days before the adoption of this amendment. At that time, we warned that it would be more difficult to save at the middle of the year than at the beginning, because much of the money will already be spent, and today we are here. Today, it is also officially confirmed that the decline in growth in the first quarter was even more drastic, as was the decline in industrial production, investment and exports. At the time of this fall, however, the Slovenian state spent significantly more than during the same period last year when growth was high. Even in today's second revision of the budget, financial transfers to budgetary users are increasing in particular. We have a forecast of a huge deficit that we are charging for the younger and future generations. And we impose without such funds investing in or in their knowledge, whether in infrastructure or in their knowledge. And that makes me feel extremely bad about today's decision-making. The situation is so serious and time-consuming that the development rebalance, although much has been discussed in the last hour, is too much of a expectation in this situation when resources have been drastically reduced, and at least the development sequels should be more clearly reflected in these documents. But, as has already been said, this is a great expectation and probably unrealistic, and this second revision of the budget should be counter-crisis. That's right. In the crisis, the speed of action is as important as the contents of the measures themselves. The time for rapid action in the first months of the crisis has unfortunately been delayed, has passed, I can only express my regret that our proposals, the results of which would be immediate, have not been accepted. Direct measures by taxing the economy would produce significantly better results than indirect measures by dividing taxpayers' money through complex bureaucratic mechanisms. Today, this has to do with the fact that we have missed direct action or that we have not taken it at all, unfortunately, an empirical confirmation of the over-average decline in growth and the drastic increase in unemployment; officially recorded and hidden through various subsidy measures. The government, of course, claims to have done everything possible. One is if the government says it for political reasons, and another is if it believes it. One is if, for obvious political reasons, the government claims that the second balance is good, and the other is if it believes in itself intimately. If we believe in this, we are on a steep road down to disaster, for this means that the government believes that Slovenia can do nothing more than what it has done, that we have accepted the backlog of the developed or have surrendered to fate. The documents before us are missing one very important thing, this is a comparison with the environment in which our economies operate and operate, at least the main macroeconomic statistics of the European Union and the euro area should be present. They are particularly interesting comparisons with Central Europe, which means that we belong more directly to it in one way or another than the European Union. If we look at, say, two countries - the Czech Republic and Poland - both had significantly worse Lisbon ratings at the end of last year than Slovenia, but today they are in a better position than we are. Our assessments of the Lisbon reforms have been better, so it is foolish to say that we are in such a fall today because of past unreported reforms. They weren't all that could have been performed. We can talk about how your support was when they were proposed. If there were only unreformed reforms, then the fall should have been in the other Central European countries, where there were even fewer reforms than ours, but it is not. It is not because they carried out a number of anti-crisis measures in due time, especially those direct ones, and we are not. Development between 2004 and 2008 was also not only the result of global and European conjuncture. If it were, Slovenia would also develop at the average speed of the European Union, not at 3% faster than it does. At the end of last year, Slovenia recorded one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, we were the second least indebted country in Europe, we had the lowest excise duty on motor fuels, which the Government has raised dramatically at that time, and thus, of course, a much more complete budget. All of this means that this year's deep recession in Slovenia is not only the result of the global economic crisis, it is also - for sure; but it is also so deep because we have missed timely measures. Now this feeling is even more bitter when we say it because these measures were available. They were proposed and some even repeatedly, some also very simple, without any negative fiscal effects, were rejected. If measures were to be taken in a timely manner, if they were somewhere at the level of what they took elsewhere in Central Europe and in the European Union at all, then our decline in macroeconomic indicators around the European Union average would be perhaps 10 percentage points higher, given that we are somewhere 90% of the European Union's average development or average standard by purchasing power per capita. Nor can the laws adopted at the time of growth be an excuse for spending in times of crisis. This is what we have been listening to for half a year now in the previous mandate and earlier passed laws that increase certain rights, and how this limits the Government's use of public funds in measures. Legislation that is adapted to those situations is always adopted. At the time of growth, employees, including public administration employees, have the right to demand, above all in the economy, that their salaries receive the same growth as growth in the national economy at all; and it is normal for certain rights to be increased at that time. It is also normal that when the crisis, when revenues are lower, these rights are smaller. Every government must respond to the situation. And here you have the majority, you have the favor of unions. At a time when the previous government was just thinking about some reforms, 40,000 people protested on Ljubljana streets, at least they said that there were so many, nothing had been adopted or proposed. Today, when there are drastic situations for non-action, there are no protests other than paper. This can be good or bad; for the government this is good, this favour allows greater room for manoeuvre in reforms, including in amending legislation that you consider to increase public spending; so do it. Not to mention much of the politicised civil society or media owners who are all supporters of the current government option and also media support is provided. Therefore, do not excuse that some laws have been passed earlier and that this prevents action or saving. The crisis is an extraordinary time and requires extraordinary measures. The crisis is not an opportunity first, but primarily a threat that must be effectively countered first and, at the same time, a longer-term solution to its causes. It is only in such a way that the crisis opens up opportunities. The crisis brings greater social variability for reforms, but I fear that the time of the first year of the new mandate, in which it is easier to trigger this process of change to the greatest extent lost; also lost because many of the ideas that are written in the still existing development strategies of Slovenia and which have been implemented in previous years within the framework of the plural partnership for development have not received their continuation. However, the proposed deadline for participation in this mandate was arrogantly rejected by the government coalition. The state must always make it very clear, even when adopting budget corrections, that counter-crisis measures and high-resources are temporary, and plan how they will withdraw from these practices and how the temptation and exceptional need for economic intervention will not grow into something in itself conditional or into a long-term practice. It is unacceptable, for example, that a deficit of 3% to 4% is projected in this second budget rebalancing until 2013 - for the next four years. By promoting economic activity and reducing costs, the government must bring both deficits, budgetary and public finances into the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact at least from 2010, at least they must plan measures in this direction. There can be no doubt about this, this is the task of every government, and this is also our framework obligation within the EU. It is also the task of every housewife to spend about as much as he gains or creates. Small and medium-sized enterprises and services are traditionally the toughest part of the Slovenian economy, in this rebalancing they are virtually ignored, despite the fact that jobs in this sector are the most easily achieved and also the cheapest goal. With the amendment of our Group of Members, we are trying to at least symbolically correct their position. The miraculous word of the fight against the economic crisis is a job, not artificially created in administration or artificially maintained in programmes without perspective, but a job created by healthy economic growth, an entrepreneurial idea, self-employment. This national assembly and this or any other government cannot directly create such jobs but must create conditions for them. This consciousness is almost gone in the submitted materials. There is talk of an increase in the capital of the economy, or a very large index is mentioned or mentioned, but it is essentially EUR 300 million of recapitalisation of the two banks. This can only be indirect, and this question, what and when, help the economy. It's unfair to operate on this index because it's just a delusion. Even though the government cannot solve the crisis only by increasing economic resources through the budget, this is the biggest illusion, the resources must only allow the economy to invest. The mindset must change immediately, or it will mean that this coalition has created the most jobs in bankruptcy managers, which with astronomical awards becomes its symbol, as well as a symbol of chaos brought about by the uncontrollable crisis. This second balance this year should be a summary of all other anti-crisis measures already taken or a covert anti-crisis act. I'm afraid that's not the case. The technical services of the ministries were too challenging to prepare this balance: it is impossible to make a good summary of bad or unaccepted measures. However, the economic situation of Slovenia and the European Union is more serious than we could conclude from the proposed materials of this balance. The crisis is deep and global, recovery will be relatively long and painful. While financial systems are partially stabilised, they are still far from sound health. Measures for their recovery have, as a rule, increased the risk of moral gambling. At the time of recovery, this fact will have additional negative effects. That's what you need to count on. It is unrealistic to expect a quick return of time from a few years ago, before the beginning of the crisis. Those potential investors who have money will also be very careful about investment decisions for a long time. Personal consumption in developed countries is likely to stand permanently at a lower level than in pre-crisis times. At the end of the recession, expected to be the second year, there will be a longer period of low economic growth and persistently high unemployment. Slovenia cannot afford to cushion the crisis for a number of years in a row only with increased indebtedness at the expense of future generations. Reducing the share of public spending in GDP is essential. Thinking about new or higher taxes is a complete madness in this situation. Dismantling the economy and creating conditions for the creation of new jobs is, however, a fundamental national interest that must be the fundamental guide of each government at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Nice greeting and thank you for your word. The proposed second balance of this year's budget is an urgent response to the changed situation due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The tight macroeconomic situation has a negative impact on the revenue side of the budget while at the same time requiring the adjustment of the expenditure side, in particular some of the increased costs, particularly in the area of social transfers or the costs of anti-crisis measures. The planned revenue of the state budget is thus reduced by the current budget by EUR 842 million and by EUR 616 million or 7%, in view of last year's realisation. The maximum budget revenue shortfall is a tax revenue drop that is falling by the current budget of EUR 765 million and by even 959 million or minus 12% last year, depending on last year's realisation. Within tax revenue is planned the maximum deduction minus 28% from income taxes, both on income - by the way - minus 16% - and even more from corporate income tax, minus 41%, at the time of the definitive deduction of budgetary revenue from the abolished salary tax. In the field of taxes, no new tax burden is foreseen either in the form of new taxes or in the increase of tax rates, except in the field of excise duties, where, within the framework of its legal powers, the Government is currently adapting excise duties on oil derivatives and thereby partially compensates for the loss of other tax revenues. Similar to tax revenues, even more so, minus 25%, non-tax revenues are being reduced, especially at the expense of profits and dividends, except that their negative impact in absolute terms is less sensitive. Under the given circumstances, the applicant retains the amount of planned capital revenue or almost doubles it in relation to the realisation of the previous year, mainly on the basis of the sale of fixed assets, but given the structural share of capital revenues, they cannot substantially compensate for the tax and non-tax revenue shortfall. A major change is in the area of European funds, where, despite a slightly reduced amount in terms of the budget in force, revenue in terms of last year's realisation, €363 million, increases by €450 million or more than twice. Budget expenditure increases by a balance sheet, depending on the budget in force, by 159 million, or by a billion €289 million or 15%, in the light of last year's realisation. In doing so, current expenditure is maintained approximately at the level of the previous year. A significant increase in the realisation of the previous year, almost a billion euros, is the current transfers, although they are kept at the current level, at the level of the current budget, mainly on the basis of subsidies, transfers to individuals and transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions, including municipalities representing the fourth public treasury, which the only of the four public cash registers has not yet felt in the area of current expenditure the negative consequences of the economic crisis, and in the field of investment, this public treasury is even increasing, which is good, especially at the expense of European funds. Under the given circumstances, it was also necessary to cut after the reduction of the funds allocated to investments at the state level. Although these resources are falling under the current budget, they are still higher than last year's implementation, and investment transfers are higher by €222 million or 46% in terms of last year's realisation. In addition, investment transfers to municipalities increase by EUR 4 million in terms of the current budget or by more than EUR 260 million or 83% in terms of last year's realisation. Despite significantly reduced budgetary revenues compared to last year's organisation and without additional or even reduced tax burden and relatively high cost of counter-crisis measures, the state budget is providing for the needs of the pension fund missing EUR 125 million due to the loss of contributions, for the economy 552 million euros more or even double in terms of last year's realisation, for science and technology, EUR 106 million or 50% in terms of last year's and for education 118 million more than last year's realisation. Let me finish with the characteristics of the proposed second or technical balance. Reduced budget revenues, in particular from tax revenues that fell to 18.4% of GDP from last year's 22.7% of GDP, without increasing tax burdens, provision of funds to increase the necessary social transfers, including additional pension funds, increased costs of anti-crisis measures and the retention of current budgetary costs, despite new legal obligations, only for salaries had to be provided 150 million additional resources and maintained its developmental orientation. This, of course, results in budgetary deficits and the need for additional but manageable debt. In the light of this, we will support the proposed balance in our parliamentary group, but we will not support any of the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor within the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to everyone, with the promise that at least in the DeSUS Group we will try to contribute something to start a vote some minute earlier than five a.m. tomorrow morning, which is why my position or position on behalf of the DeSUS Group will be relatively brief and not too often later on. The numbers, figures, reasons, assessments that we have heard in the past days on different work bodies are repeated and repeated today, and with repetition they do not gain credibility, nor validity, nor on anything else, which is why I renounce repeating these numbers. However, it is probably necessary to mention, although the numbers are the same, different relations to these numbers and interpretations and individual emphasiss and forgets any numbers and any overemphasis possible. This is also what we want to avoid in the parliamentary group, because it is clear to us that this relationship is a relationship that does not tolerate the equation between the opposition and the coalition, and this is perfectly normal, but it would be a shame to waste too many words for it. In the DeSUS Group or I have this task to present simply our position, which is that it is necessary to maintain the balance and the position that it is proposed to adopt. And that it is also necessary to insist on not yielding to different ambitions after the amendment of what has been submitted, it is not to be taken into account, from which species it comes, either that it is of the opposition species or that it is of the coalition species. We express our satisfaction at the Government's insistence on what it has put forward and that it does not yield to the ambitions expressed in the various amendments. We don't think the amendments are bad. There are many amendments that can be very much supported, many that bring good content. It is likely that many will be taken into account when we prepare the 2010 and 2011 budget, but if we agree to perforate this ship with one amendment alone, which is called the budget rebalance, we would probably multiply these holes and we would sink the balance. So we do not consider that amendments are non-controversial, but we believe that we must insist on keeping the balance of the budget above water. We've got some thoughts ourselves. In the DeSUS parliamentary group, we are not satisfied with everything that has been recorded in the budget, even with what is written in the balance, we are not satisfied with everything, we lack many of our ambitions, our interests, but we have renounced that we will not persist in the rebalanci, but it is right to point out that something is bothering us and that we will try to do so when we are preparing the budget for the next two years. So, because we have promised to shorten the time, let me just repeat it again: that we do not intend to support any of the amendments, that we will support the rebalancing and that we think that the government must continue to fully balance, as it is now represented, because it has been written in a spasm; when it is written in a spasm, it is not possible to resolve all ambitions and individual interests, whether local communities, Members or Members, for this will be an opportunity once again, we must now get out of this most acute crisis in a way that we can also start preparing structural and other changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! My name is Bogdan Barovic and I am a member of the Slovenian National Party already the third term, the ninth year. So far, in nine years, I've been "contaminated" by people to understand. By having been so valuable to me for nine years that yesterday at midnight, when I sat in my seat, I received a piece of paper that said what was going to happen today and tomorrow. But I didn't get this for the last session or for today. I fought with my colleagues because I think we're worth at least enough to get it. If this is, respected representatives of the government, saving, if this is saving, that I don't have three papers - 90 times 3 is 270 papers, calculate how much it costs! While Mr Secretary-General of the Government gets 5% more in the budget balance, which is at least a thousand times more than three papers worth, then I will say thank you very much for such a rebalancing, but I will not! It is only in the knowledge of the National Assembly that we are not worthy enough to know what will happen. The Slovenian national party will support the rebalancing. This rebalancing is not a budget, the rebalancing is an urgent evil, it's a crisis rebalancing. This country doesn't have a magic bag to take something from and share. It's not! Of course it's a question. I'm not going to say that today we've heard ortho Communist socialist speeches from the 1960s, we've heard liberal communist and socialist speeches, we've heard neoliberal speeches, numbers. If I were Bogdan Barovich today sitting at home in front of a TV screen, I wouldn't understand anything. No offense, you might think I'm stupid, but people don't understand all the millions, billions, presentation, plans, blah, blah, blah. People understand this: four are in the family, living normal, having plans. They want to study kids, they want to buy them a computer, and they want to go on vacation. And suddenly one loses his job. Now what? This family needs to figure out what she's gonna do at home. Either she's not gonna buy computers or she's not gonna let her kids study where she thought they were, but she's gonna give them to someone else, or she's gonna give up her vacation. And here we are. What are we going to give up? Everyone sees their own vision. Everyone has their own garden. We all do. One likes flowers in the garden, the other likes a garden where it has vegetables, the third likes a garden where it has some exotic plants if it grows. If it's a common garden, everyone likes to take something. It's the government that's gonna decide where she's gonna take it and where she's gonna put it. We're the ones who're going to judge or think something's right, but there's something out there. But the government has to take it. There's no magic bag. He's got to give it somewhere. But what hurts us in the Slovenian National Party is that about 860 million euros in revenue is almost 600, 700 million in taxes. Okay, so much less taxes. While we were talking yesterday about people who allegedly did not pay these taxes on their earnings and carried them to other countries. It's not just the ones we talked about last night, it's a lot to go back to! These taxes went to other countries. Some think that the Schumachers are going to Monaco, others think it is better to pay taxes in the Netherlands than in Slovenia and so on. Who's gonna get hurt? People in Slovenia who don't have a job that doesn't have money that doesn't have a job - suicides, despairs. It's always someone's fault. Of course, it's always the misunderstanding in the family, whether it's the alcohol, or whether it's the fault, I don't know what else. That's not true! It's the despair of a man who does what is right. And for honest work, he wants a fair pay. Since he has no job, he has no salary, and even if he has a job, he has no fair pay. The balance we are talking about today is urgent. Yesterday we talked about how dissatisfied we were with the construction of Slovenian roads, with everything that was going on. I believe there is a lot of truth in this, but today, with the Ministry of Transport's balance, we are taking 59 million. Yeah, what we're going to have: we're unhappy with what happened, but we want to take it now, and then we want to criticize how nothing happened! We can hear how we can't get young people to choose a soldier's profession. We decided to go to NATO, and we decided to have a professional army to defend our only one, my favorite country, the Republic of Slovenia. People don't. Why not? Yes, because with the budget rebalancing, the defense is 79 million! Let's ask ourselves, is it right to say one thing yesterday, today we're talking another -- and I don't mean left-right now. That's the truth. While we bear it peacefully - and I will not judge this work because I believe that I will never do it, even if I could - I would not do it - to give 5% of the increase to the Secretary-General, we give 5% to the Office of the Government for Religious Communities - to bureaucracy. We can't give the Muri anything because we're giving it to the Secretary-General. Is it really so bad that it needs 5% more? Health, Article 1 of the Constitution, at least that's what I learned in nine years: Slovenia is a democratic country. Article 2 of the Constitution: Slovenia is a legal and social state. What does the social state mean? That every Slovenian who works honestly has the right to an honest pension and the right to an honest social health care, insurance, and the right to go to a doctor. I don't think you can say here on the left and on the right, or in the middle, not yes, no. That's right. And if we are going to "scramble," but we will, because we have to, in this area, then we can delete Articles 1 and 2 of the Constitution. After all, some want to change their constitution! Let us sum up paragraphs 1 and 2 and write that Slovenia is a presidential state, and in Article 2, let us write that Slovenia is an illegal and non-social state. I don't care, change it! But as long as it is, as stated in the Constitution, people have the right to health insurance, to health care and people have the right to pensions that they have earned in 40 years, at least by clicking in Zasavje, and many workers in all 12 statistical regions in the Republic of Slovenia. And what's going on? And they're quiet and they're going to eat, and they're going to eat that if we save the country together. I'm not gonna read it to you, but I have all the numbers written down. We all know there's gonna be a third rebalancing in the fall. We know this moment! For the first time, I heard on my mother's working body in nine years that he was one minister, and to me, he's a handsome gentleman, and he's my friend, I personally appreciate him, he said no amendments would be supported by the government. The government has always supported the coalition amendments and has always opposed the opposition! This is the first time we've heard that! And as soon as I look at it, I hope the government will keep that word. And we have to eat that too! We have amendments, too. In the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine there is already money to close, where there is still a crisis, where we will be with these people, from the guaranteed and guaranteed money takes a rebalance of 1 million and a half! I'm going to eat it, and I'm going to eat it for this rebalancing. I will! And I hope that the people in the Bellies and the Oaks will also eat it. I hope so. So that, according to the promises of the government, one day it will be better. As I will not, I will not support what my esteemed colleague, Mayor Jankovic, in Ljubljana, may have lost, it is said, at the expense of the previous government. It will also consume 60 million euros if Trbovlje and Hrastnik need 1.5 million more. Let's be so honest! And today we're sitting down, and we're actually done today, and we're already in session, and we're gonna be done tomorrow. It doesn't make sense. It really doesn't make sense. We know that the balance of the budget is second, and we know that it will be third in autumn, and we know that there is a crisis balance, and we know that each one has his own nursery and everyone wants to move something left to right. But let us tell the people in sight that we are going to drive this boat out of the storm into the calm sea and that when we create a budget for the Republic of Slovenia, the most beautiful country in the world, we are going to make a budget that will grow slowly. That is why we will risk something, including my respected colleague sitting there in front of me, sharing local problems, and also all the other colleagues I respect, on the right and on the left, but in the hope that we will have a budget next year to come to the peaceful sea and continue with the intensive development of all our beloved countries. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party we support the balance of the budget Even when we talk about the amendments, we will support some in the hope that these amendments are only an equation, no one is taking anything but equal. Some of whom we believe to be right would be 300 000 euros for the development of health care in the demographically threatened and impoverished area of Gorička and Murska Sobota is no sin. And that's why we're going to say honestly, "We're behind this amendment," even though we know the government's position, and even though we know that the coalition is likely to stick and reject these amendments. But if it were a smart judgment, any of the proposed amendments, whether "magari" is coalition or opposition, would be worth receiving, not because of the amendment, not because of the numbers, not because of the rebalancing that needs to be done again, but because of the people concerned by these amendments. If there are no doctors in the demographically threatened area now, and this is so widespread that there are no doctors at all who can go 70 or 50 or 30 kilometers to one of you when someone needs it. I'll be damned! Who will drive a man on the line between life and death, where he will wait seven hours after three hours? My buddy's from over there! I've always fought, in nine years, even for the intestinal hospital, and I will, but this time because I recognize the balance because I support it because I know it's hard, I'm going to eat it and I'm going to have to eat it. We have a new law to discuss. And I believe, for the last time, I believe, and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party believe that Mr Pahor's Government will also improve and light all the laws it improves this year and the second year! For the last time, I believe and support them because I know they're trying, and I know they've fallen into a crisis situation. And I stress: not pointing to the other side now, and this side has tried and created something, and we are in crisis. Now we have to get through this crisis, and we have to get out, and we won't have a fight - just together. And for the last time, I'm going to give a parable: someone took a Chinese wand and broke it like that--when he took ten of them, he couldn't break them. That means we're strong together. And there are some areas where we need to be together, whether we're green, red, yellow, black, blue or white, whatever you want. But the elections will be in 2012, and by then, "screw". It's like running 2,000 meters, the one that drives the first 500 meters is usually the last. Remember that, let's all remember that. We must not go to the 2012 elections, we must make sure that people survive, that they will have pensions, that they will have health and social insurance, that they will be patient, that they will believe in us and that they will have some optimism. That is why maybe this moment the opposition blames me or not - whatever it is - we will support the balance because it is a crisis rebalance and because it is oriented as it is. However, I know that the Government will make an effort or I hope, for the last time, that this rebalancing will be different in autumn, that it will punish all those who did not pay taxes by paying them to this country because they have to pay them like every honest Slovenian; that this Government will think about how much money we will spend on the various groups of people we are arguing about and throwing sand into people's eyes just so that people do not see the real problem. That'll be over. Colleagues and colleagues, let's support this rebalancing. In the case of amendments, let us make our own decisions. We will support them -- not real ones -- those we think are real, those we think are not. I know that they will not accept, this is the position of the Government, and probably it will be so; but in the hope that in autumn we will accept a rebalancing which will be better for the Slovenes and Slovenians, not for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and not for the Secretary-General and not for the Office of Religious Affairs, and not for some individuals who, of course, have gathered through slalom to raise funds in the rebalancing which in principle is falling. And one more thing: don't lie to us, not talk about a 5% drop in gross social product today, if we all know it's going to be 8% in three months, well. Let's say today that it will be 8% and today let's start acting so that it won't be 8%. Not as we sat on the Committee on Finance, where we were told that 1% was going to fall, but they already said it was higher, but they can't tell. I can't forget that! I said it would be 4% as predicted. We can't say! Yeah, why the hell not? It is what it is! Our goal is to correct this decline in GDP, gross social product or product, which is lower. And today, it's nice to know that this is going to be 8%, but it's not supposed to be 5.5%, and when we know that in October, it's going to be 8.2% in data. Don't lie to each other in the eyes! Let's tell ourselves the truth! It just happened. It happened because of coincidences. The Americans have caused this crisis, the crisis has taken over the whole world, the Americans have saved themselves with the help of the whole world, and they will not save us. But we will save ourselves and no one else: not America, not Europe, but Slovenia and us as the legislative branch of power and the government that we have to trust because it has received most of the votes of the people. When the future comes, we will trust those who will receive most of the votes of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. The following shall be considered as an individual part: 1. General part of the Proposal for a budget rebalancing, 2. Special part of the Proposal for a budget rebalancing and 3. Plan of development programmes. We are moving on to the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, I'll open the application. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your words! Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! In order to make myself known to the introductory words, this is because I would like to answer Mr Barovic's question at the point of his concern that, due to the needs of operational capabilities and commitments made by the Government or the National Assembly in the past relationship, then, given the number of soldiers who will make up our military capabilities, and that, due to savings in public administration and in the past, due to the lack of interest in these jobs, these objectives will not be possible to achieve, I would like to inform you of the following. Savings in public administration, as we have done, have also been very thoughtful. At the point of the necessary employment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it was undeniable that from 2004 to 2008, for the reasons you stated, the condition of the uniformed work was in fact the same, even reduced. For this reason, we have succeeded in removing the common human resources plan, which we have reduced by 2%, but in the civil part of the state administration, and this is what we are following and we are also succeeding in this work, and have in no doubt allowed young people who, due to the situation on the labour market as they are today, will be able to express their interest in joining the military species. For this reason, it was up to 7. Seven. By the end of 2009, a total of one hundred and sixty soldiers will be employed by the end of 2009 and another two hundred and nineteen soldiers on the basis of the previous week's adopted Common Staff Plan. So the total number of soldiers will increase by three hundred and ninety-nine, even in the crisis year for all the reasons I mentioned earlier. Therefore, I would like to say that the Government takes into account all the circumstances in the design of the austerity measures and, in fact, where it is not possible to save and where it is estimated that we should not, for various reasons, do not do so. So much in explanation in this part are things released because of the interest to enter in 2009 we left the door open here and, as we can see, the Ministry of Defence will also have sufficient resources in the area of salaries for these soldiers. So much for an explanation. I would also like to respond to all the obvious in terms of public administration must share the fate of the real sector. However, from the current proposals for the rebalancing, it is estimated that honourable Members and Members, in fact only some, do not. I, as a coordinating ministry, can say with responsibility that the public sector, the public administration, shares in a significant part the fate of the real sector. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that an agreement was reached in August 2008 after four years between the former government and between the public sector staff and the introduction of a new pay system that has been implemented. Therefore, the financial implications were already foreseen in August 2008 and with the dynamics of the elimination of wage imbalances in 2009 and 2010. On the basis of this wage reform, wage growth in the public sector was projected to be 9.9% in 2009 by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. Our government assumed its mandate in early December 2008. First of all, we have faced the issue of whether a wage reform, which has yet to come to an end or not at all, can be halted due to the forecasting crisis. From this point of view, I would like to point out that the social dialogue that took place for four years was ended by the conclusion of a collective contract for the public sector setting out all the elements of public sector wages - most of them except for the civil sector wage system officer. The first austerity measures in the area of reducing public treasury expenditure, which have effects throughout 2009, were achieved following intensive negotiations in January with the social partners, where we achieved that the payment reform, the elimination of the pay imbalances in a significant part of the shift from wages to inflation in 2009, so as not to pay for the regular performance of public servants, to pay them back in 2008; in short, this arrangement meant reducing public spending in 2009 in the area of the salaries of all 154,000 public servants in the public sector and stopping wage growth to 6.6%. It could not be stopped at a smaller percentage. Why? The second elimination of wage imbalances was agreed for January 2009. Social dialogue could not be concluded within the three weeks we were in power in these three weeks. Therefore, January's harmonisation of wage imbalances still shows disproportionate wage growth in the real sector against the public sector, says the imbalance. However, it is important to take into account the fact that public officials in the period 2004-2008 refused to coordinate wages up to half with inflation in order to create savings that would then eliminate wage imbalances, which were then coordinated in all four years. When we reached this agreement and in this part frozen absolute wage growth in the public sector for 2009, we reduced officials, mostly by 4% - but this was indeed about reducing wages - in the second part of the preparation of the second budget rebalancing, however, we have made efforts to reduce public spending in the field of material costs and investment in fixed assets for public sector work. Here I can even agree that savings could be higher, but there is no way to ignore that we have made this balance possible with significant savings. The material costs in those items, which also mean fixed costs and cannot be reduced, were negotiated in a procedure that is unusual for the public sector in smaller amounts. We went to public procurement, we went to all areas, which we reported to you on almost 33 pages. These effects are not fully visible today, by the end of the year and when new budgets are drawn up, all the effects will be even greater, I am sure. The ministries are being reported to the government, we are now preparing a summary report on savings in specific areas. So that where so far possible, a budget user has saved less than others, it will be possible to call on these regular reports to save more effectively those who have not done so, who have no reasonable reason not to save. So, after intensive wage savings, halting employment in the civil part of the state administration, including in the public sector - if you'll excuse me, I can serve you here with information that is very clear. Despite the fact that we took up our term of office in November, there are 7 months of civil government employees' balance of employment, although we were able to employ four people in the cabinets of ministries, so at least 80 people could bring us for a certain period of our term of office, today we record 11 more employees than at the time of our term of office in the civil part of the state administration. Which suggests that we absolutely stick to the agreements, that we do not replace people leaving, and thus, I say, we will reduce employment in the civil part of the state administration by the end of the year. We will deliberately employ guards, soldiers and police officers to a limited extent, minus 2% of the overall human resources plan, as we have set ourselves. We are doing this with arguments, taking into account the fact that, to this day, we have not had a mechanism to monitor the growth of public sector employees subject to the Public Sector Wages Act. After monitoring the IAPES data so far, they show the number of hours spent by staff in the public sector, then we share these hours with 8 and get the average number of employees. In December 2004, employees in the public sector were paid under the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act under this methodology, 150.177. In December 2008, when we took power, 156,381 or 6,204 heads more or so divided into 8 hours. We have found that if we want to reduce the pressure on wage expenditure, we must immediately establish a mechanism to monitor the number of employees in the public sector as a whole, not only to the extent of 35,000 employees in the state administration visa 155,000, 156,000 employees in the public sector. All ministries in the field of health, culture, education and so on have been tasked with each and every one of them in their field with the same rules as in the public sector. I would like to say that, if we took over public sector employees in December 2008 following the methodology of 156.381 people, there were 156.301 in March 2009. So, with the measures that we are already extending to the whole public sector, and we are also establishing a methodology for the management of public sector employment as a whole, we want to achieve a reduction in public sector expenditure in the area of wages by a comprehensive approach, not one that would be reckless and detrimental to the efficiency of public sector work, which I hope you share with the Government that these times of crisis, when laws are adopted, are very burdensome for important services that perform public services precisely because of the mitigation of the crisis in our country. Employment institutions, social work centres, many institutions need to be strengthened due to these accelerated activities. We are doing this through the internal redistribution of people with the help of these sectors in order to do these services to people as they expect us to do. Thus, austerity measures in the public sector are designed to prepare rebalans for the benefit of the real sector and to help people who lose their jobs in these difficult times. Therefore, I do not share the opinion of Members and Members who conclude, when preparing both rebalances, that the public administration, the public sector, is not sufficiently involved in saving. I do not deny that it could be even better, but we are working again every month to improve our saving skills and I think we will be better in this area than we are now by 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Good day to you all. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Minister of Finance, Dr. France Križanič, said that this budget balance was the first budget to be developed in the modern history of the Slovenian people. I know you won't admit anything good to the government of Janez Janša, but this statement means that all previous governments, including the Magi government, are. Anton Ropa and with all the governments of Mr Janez Drnovšk, that all these governments have adopted non-development budgets. Indevelopment budgets are, of course, poor budgets, backward budgets, and I hope it will be a mag. Anton Rop reacted, given that we've already seen him in this hall today. Of course, the statement made by Minister Križanič can be understood differently, that is, that modern Slovenian history has only begun to be written with this government. That's a pretty self-inflicted explanation. If all the previous governments, the governments of the indevelopment budgets, then I ask you how it is possible that Slovenia has come to the European Union, how is it possible that we have come to NATO, Schengen and that we have adopted the European currency if we have the first developmental budget in Slovenian history on the table today. Today, we have heard several speeches about the Slovenian balance. Colleagues and colleagues, this would indeed be a unique example in modern Slovenian history, in order to adopt three rebalans in one year. Where is this developmental orientation of the budget balance? For the economy, the item is increasing by €5.25 million and amounts to €820.4 million in 2009, representing a 206.1% increase. Nice and good, but let's see: in this area, in the field of economy, an additional recapitalisation of NLB and NKBM of EUR 300 million is envisaged from this sum. It is said that the recapitalisation and rehabilitation of banks that held a candle to tycoon loans and went into trouble also because dedicated friends were given such credits "to the best of their eyes". The area of science and development, indeed, is increasing by 50% or 106 million euros, the area of education is increasing by 118 million euros or 7.4%, depending on last year or the previous budget, but we can see that this sum is still much lower than it will be intended to recapitalise both state banks. For science, development and education, this is what is meant to give some development momentum in this country, giving this budget rebalance of 76 million euros less money than to recapitalise both state banks. Of course, this term "developmental orientation" can mean very different environments. In this rebalancing you are reducing money for investment in transport infrastructure. For Koroška and also many other environments in Slovenia, transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for development, which you like to talk about. For Ljubljana this may be a new opera, for someone else there are various investments, perhaps even in Ultra and so on. The environment along good roads is growing faster. This has been proven both in Slovenia and in other countries around the world. If someone is in traffic cut off from the capital, just as we are cut off by Korosci and many others, then these environments certainly develop slower than all others. With this other rebalancing, transport and transport infrastructure and communications are reduced by more than €78 million or 10%. With various statistical acrobatics, this government tries to cloud the real situation and instill some false hope as to how the decline occurs, economic growth, the reduction of unemployment, and this is compared in different ways. Sometimes it's compared to a week ago, sometimes it's compared to a day or a month. Compared to December of last year, unemployment was 27.6% higher in May of this year, and unemployment was 38.2% higher this year than in May of last year. Or the following information. According to April this year, 5.5% more workers were permanently redundant due to bankruptcy. Workers have agreed to employment and bankruptcy managers in this country are losing their hands. Of course, there is no way to get rid of this information that some bankruptcys are deliberately caused so that bankruptcy managers can first earn their earnings, while in the second stage someone from bankruptcy would buy this bankruptcy property cheaply. So let's wait for the third budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Thank you. The actual budget framework is set by the government with its own measures, which can be professional, non-professional, timely, untimely, before actually proposing the act itself. And that's what we're really talking about right now. This has also been discussed by the predecessors, and I must say that I am very glad that the coalition has shown a very big sense of humor in two points. The first is the SD representative who said [[Quote]] : "Government in due time and professionally sufficient action," and remained completely serious. This, I'm sorry, has to be respected. And in order to prove that even in the opposition we know something to say in a more distorted way, to support these words and to prove these words to the evidence that the current government, unlike the previous one, has held only two records, is holding an absolute record when it comes to matters affecting the budget framework, the current government already holds five absolute records when it comes to those things that directly affect the budget framework. Let me count them. Thus, the previous government had only two records, the highest economic growth in the history of Slovenia and the highest employment in the history of Slovenia alone; only two, so on. The present has five: the fastest debt in the history of independent Slovenia and the greatest debt in the history of independent Slovenia. Look, from a balanced state in a public cash register, even a slight plus, we're in a state where for the end of the year we're predicting a violent minus, there's about minus 5, let's hope not minus 10%. Then the second absolute record is the rate of decline in economic growth. From growth, which was 2.5 times the European average, we have come in just a few months in a 3-fold faster economic decline than the European Union average. The absolute record of the current government. As for the growth of the unemployed, the rate of growth, the number of unemployed is significantly higher now, in just a few months, than in the entire previous term the rate of employment of the previous government. So, even here, the trend is faster, the absolute record is obvious. And all five records are kept by the current government, which proves the words of the well-respected forerunner. This is, of course, based on some real foundations, which are certainly a constant conflict in the coalition due to the permanent staff cleansing that is now taking place from the Golnik hospital world to the last company somewhere near the coast, and of course still the division of electoral spoils, which is also a kind of record after so many months as we have witnessed in the transfer of electronic communications to the hands of Mr Gregor Golbič. From this point of view, it seems that when it comes to this framework of this budget, in fact, the financial minister Dr. Križanič had already issued the greatest state secret months ago when he said that everything that could go wrong was already under this government. What is this really? That's Murphy's law. You know, Murphy's marriage says, "Anything that goes wrong will go wrong." And it's obviously the only law that regulates the work of this government, and that's certainly one of the more secure state secrets. From this point of view, allow me to add another Murphy law that says that the natural development of things is from bad to worse. And that is why it is in a way natural that we today are faced with such a proposal for another budget rebalancing as it is before us. But please don't get me wrong. I know a lot of people, including those who once voted for the current coalition, say you'd better not be. But I don't agree with that. In the long term, it is extremely important for the development of the country and for the development of political culture. And look, from this point of view, the existence of this government and the existence of this coalition and all of its records are extremely important, because it is only in the light of these records that the current government will be able to properly appreciate the outstanding quality, expertise and success of the previous coalition. And this is of exceptional importance for the development of Slovenia in the long term. This can also be at a symbolic level. Sometimes, even in colors, this picture appears very nicely on the cover of Work: Think wisely and decide wisely that you will not find yourself in the red field. It's a very simple logic of things. To leave these things aside for a moment and to finish with a slightly more serious topic, I will, however, underpin it with another anecdotes, only to warn; this rebalancing is obviously a temporary rebalancing from the previous one, which was actually a predatory one, and whose only result was a drastic increase in the minus in the public treasury, to the next one, which, hopefully, is already a developmental one, and that the only increase in investment in quality jobs and infrastructure that makes it possible, but not an increase for Mr Squil, will be able to send any more mail to Finland if its mandate is now as it was in the previous term. But what we should be worried about is this red thread, which was present both in government statements and in the statements of most coalition parties: ensuring that nothing will change, that all governance will be carried out exactly as it has been so far. You know, this only reminds a little of that story when Franz Joseph died and in the paradise of Austro-Hungarian in Vienna the crowd gathered before the palace and crying and the court chamber moved forward and wanted to comfort them, and he said, "Don't cry, nothing will change! Everything will remain as it has been so far!" Then hear thou of the multitude, saying, Therefore we weep. It's just a procedural proposal for the end. Given that Mrs Krebs has also shown a remarkable sense of government humor when she said, I quote: "We have taken a thoughtful approach to reducing the number of employees in the state administration." I propose that this video, which has escaped from the government's meeting, should now be turned around with the velvet vote of the President of the Government: "Irma...", which would certainly show this statement in the right light and also spread this meeting today, both for us and for everyone accompanying it. You know, humor is half healthy and nice to at least give it to Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Both the first and second balance of the 2009 budget were adopted or adopted during the greatest global financial and economic crisis since World War II. The second rebalancing had to adapt the government to the new macroeconomic situation, which led to this rebalancing based on a minus 4% economic growth. The fact is, nobody in the world could have avoided this crisis. That is why other governments, both in the European Union and elsewhere, are adapting their budgets and taking other measures to mitigate the consequences of the global economic crisis. With the forecast that economic growth will continue to decline in Slovenia, we announced in March that the first balance would soon be followed by another. At the same time, it must be said that the basic budget was adopted in 2007, which is at the time of the previous Government and at the time of the marked conjuncture. Many experts in public finances have already begun to draw attention to the problem of the government's public financial policy, Janez Janša. Even then, it was warned that the period of the fat cows would follow the period of the dry cows. During the period of high economic growth, particularly in 2006 and 2007, the former government should create savings and address the public financial deficit. In 2007, countries with lower economic growth and lower inflation had much higher surpluses than Slovenia. Thus, in 2006, with 5.9% of growth, the government was not able to generate any surplus. The savings in 2007 were also fictitious because Dars was financed outside the budget, which was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors and predicted that we would be paying back the motorway programme and debts by 2040 and even by 2050. However, the state budget still has a lot on its plate. All legal obligations are already in the budget for almost 70% of all budget expenditure. We have been alerting budgetary rigour since the 2007 budget rebalancing when we were still in opposition. A survey of the International Monetary Fund, published in June 2007, warned us, warned the previous government that Slovenia must reform public spending and change fiscal policy after taking over the euro. This is not what Slovenia did. That's the problem today. Due to the new macroeconomic situation, there are also new anti-crisis measures in the second balance for 2009 which, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, have already been discussed by colleague Bojan Kontic. Let me mention here the law on partial full-time subsidisation, which has been very well received. Thousands of jobs have been preserved this way. Let me tell you an experience from my area, where I come from, at the Idrian and Cerkljan industrial pool, more than 100 jobs have been maintained, more than 100 workers on the road in large companies such as: Kolektor, Hidria, Eta, if the Government did not adopt a law on partial full-time subsidisation. Then there is the Act on Partial Reimbursement of Remuneration of Wages, which allows businesses to assign workers to temporarily wait for work. It is estimated that this way we will be able to maintain 25,000 jobs in companies. Then there is €40 million for the low-value aid implementation programme, which is one of the measures in the package of measures to help businesses during the financial crisis. Then there is the Act on a Special Supplement for Socially Insecures of €15 million and so on. These measures are quite a few. And there's something else I'd like to say. With regard to the 2009 budget, I should mention that the previous government could have prepared changes to the 2009 budget, which would have been based on a more realistic basis, but it has not done so. Even the law on the implementation of the budget for 2008 and 2009 has amended that it should not have to prepare the budget, as it would have proved that it had not planned to cover the pre-election promises. And more such things could be cited by this government. Investment is certainly one of the most important development elements in the budgets. Despite the decline in investment funds, with this other balance sheet, this budget remains development-oriented in terms of the 2008 budget. A number of investments will remain in transport and transport infrastructure, although there is also a partial decline in funds. But this is where we run into a big problem. What did this government inherit? Nor is the fact that the former government has placed almost no or no development axis - not a third, not a fourth, not a third A development axis, and so on today, even if we had significantly more resources, they could not invest in the development axis because it is unprepared documentation because there is no placement of development axes in Slovenia. It will also be necessary to amend legislation in this area. This government has already announced the adoption of a law on faster procedures for the installation of line infrastructure in space, from the power lines, roads, railways, etc., and I hope that these laws and measures will take place in the autumn part of this year. Let me mention only from my area how much trouble we have when since 2006 the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport have placed part of the fourth development axis between Cerkne and Gorenje village, including the tunnel that connects the upper Sočko valley to central Slovenia, but we have not come so far as to start construction. If happiness and if these procedures are now accelerated compared to the slowness in the previous government, then we can realistically count on a larger one in 2012, 2013 in order to start with this largest investment in the area of the fourth development axis. At the time of the first rebalancing of March this year, I warned and challenged the current practice of managing investments, particularly in the area of investment management and the construction of large hospitals. Just a few details. The neurological clinic began to be built in 1996, announced at the end of 2013, then, the ORL clinic - early in 1996, late in 2009, the Oncology Institute also started the investment in 1996, end-of-year, the Paediatric Hospital began building in 1996, ending now, etc. The psychiatric hospital in Idrija began to renovate in 1998, ending in 2011 or 2010. We have more than 10, 15, 20 years from the start of an investment - how can we get these investments under the roof optimally if things drag on for so long? Here are new incentives, changes and repairs of projects, new management and so on. Therefore, in my opinion, and I repeat the initiative of the spring work to build large investments in infrastructure, in hospitals, in large cultural institutions such as the National and University Library, following the example of the establishment of a special company such as Dars for the construction of motorways, would also establish a special company for the investments of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to stop at the budget of the Ministry of Culture. On the occasion of the rebalancing, I have expressed great satisfaction that the Ministry of Culture's funds have increased by 30 million euros, especially at the expense of the law we adopted in the previous mandate, which we were Members and Members of the Social Democrats, and was also undermined by the then coalition. This is the Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of culture or cultural tolar or cultural euro, as we call it today. And despite the decline in cultural resources, they are still larger than they were in the 2009 basic budget, thanks to the law proposed by the Social Democrats in the previous mandate. I would also like to express my satisfaction that a number of investments from the Idrian-Church region, from the Idrian-Idrian region, remain in this budget rebalancing. Regardless of the fact that, in this second rebalancing, the funds for the reconstruction of the partisan hospital, Franje, have been reduced by almost EUR 400,000 to EUR 200,000, this investment will mainly be completed in this year or early next year. In this context, the crisis has also brought some good, as the bids of construction companies that applied for the tender have significantly reduced from, I would say, design evaluations, as was the case at times, when construction offers have significantly deviated from design prices, so we will restore the partisan Franjo hospital. This investment has already been invested in the budget by the previous government, and this government will continue this investment and will also successfully complete it in the coming years. In addition, there are 13 measures in the area of state road infrastructure of more than 3 million and a half euros in this budget balance for Idrian and Church, if I stay at this local level. This year, the psychiatric hospital Idrija will begin to renovate, and then we have the funds provided here for the home of the pensioners in Idrija, which is supposed to be built on the principle of public-private partnership. The State is still concerned about the closure of the Idrija mine, the payment of mining damage, the financing of the mercury information and research centre, but the issue of the mercury mine will need to be re-examined in the National Assembly. I am committed to adopting a special law to complete all these works that are ahead of us and, above all, to transform the mercury mine into a public institution that would then carry out all these public services arising from an already valid law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine. I ended up at this local level, so let me conclude by saying that, of course, I will also support the second balance of the 2009 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I stress the general work, because we've been going a little bit into a special part, with this last discussion. Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government or ministries, welcome! Of course, we would expect and it would be logical that this second balance of counter-crisis rebalancing would be a key or most important measure in dealing with the crisis. This is also predicted by the Government, but when we read this document, two of us are numb: whether the Government is not really aware of the situation in which it is, or the other, that it has such inadvertent, weak or insufficient measures that are illustrated in the budget in the face of the crisis. As we were able to listen to the introductions, it was not clear what the government was thinking first or second, because the Prime Minister had a two-minute performance and had just warmed up the presentation or the in-depth analysis of the documents, and I do not know if half of the documents were used from 35 minutes announced. It is likely that the Prime Minister, as well as the Government, is ashamed of this document, and that they are disheartening it even now when it is in the process or before it is adopted. This I will try to justify by some arguments or by seeing how this correction should be presented if we want to possibly make up for the delay or prevent the further fall of the Slovenian economy in the free fall, as we experienced in the first quarter. If we want to deal effectively with the crisis and take appropriate anti-crisis measures, we must first and foremost make a real assessment of the situation in which Slovenia is located and where Slovenia was or is now six months ago; and this can then also be the basis for the adoption of measures. If we analyze the situation that Slovenia was in before this government's appearance, I could certainly argue that it was in very good places to deal with the crisis. Why? Firstly, in 2007 and even until this government's performance in all statistics, the government surplus, all cash and state budget were positive in 2007, and if this crisis did not occur in the last quarter and, of course, deteriorated in the end of 2008 as well, if we were looking at the first three quarters of 2008, it is also possible to end this. This is said, from this title, the government inherited a sustainable budget, the expenditure was offset by revenue and even more, the public spending fell by about 3% in the previous government's mandate. This is an achievement that will be difficult to repeat. So, with some stable public finances, taxes, despite the tax cuts, we know that we have abolished the tax on paid salaries and some have also reduced, despite the tax cuts, we have kept public finances and reduced public financial expenditure by 3% and created 0.5% of the GDP of the public financial surplus. This is an enviable basis that has been found rarely by a euro area Member State and the European Union at the time of the autumn financial and later economic crisis. Second argument. Extremely low public financial debt of the Republic of Slovenia or budget debt of the Republic of Slovenia. Extremely low compared to other countries - around 22, 23% of gross domestic product. This is very low compared to all other countries. So this creates a level playing field for the country in the face of the crisis. The third argument is an extremely low rate of unemployment. We were among the first three after the survey, the unemployment rate in the European Union. Austria and perhaps another country was better here than we were. Human employment, a huge number of active workers, is a very good starting point for dealing with the crisis. You could still list it. Of course, we had some problems, especially inflation, which was a good result of the rise in energy prices, especially oil derivatives, made this story bitter, and it was also used by merchants with adjectives and needless to instigate certain things, which was what this inflation spiral was doing, i.e. inflationary expectations that had created inflation needlessly. This was a problem that calmed down in the second half of the year. So, if I look at it, it was a good starting point. And this is the starting point for the government to get up and tighten up the anti-crisis measures. This is the starting point. And the government had two scenarios available here. The first scenarios are that the measures promote economic activity, despite the decline of orders, despite the decline in demand. This is said to create this economic activity by means of measures; this can be done in several ways. We have proposed them, one way is to encourage investment in development, through tax cuts, tax reliefs when there are a lot of them at the beginning. Some countries have also benefited from subsidies. That's what we suggested. See the case of Germany, Italy, Austria, France, which introduced a subsidy for the purchase of a passenger car. And if we look at their statistics, we can find that they sold a few percent more cars in the first five months of this year than they did in the same period last year. While sales fell by about 20% in countries such as Slovenia or other countries that did not introduce them. Thus, targeted subsidies for those products that are important for the national economy can also preserve economic activity and work and employment. For example, why not, why didn't you consider subsidies for example for buying refrigerators, that A class in Slovenian households for some symbolic or non-symbolic price? It's just, I'd say, one of the possible actions. So, instead of these measures, which would try to maintain or at least prevent a drastic fall in economic activity at the start, of course, it happened the other way around: waiting for or declaring more or less measures that have not come to life, not until recently. For example, the most scrupulous measure, which has been repeatedly highlighted here today, the measure of the guarantee scheme, has resulted in the fact that it was actually implemented some month ago, but not yet, the result is that loans, for the first time, are calvary for the adoption and birth of this measure. And of course also now - for the first time, it is interesting that this measure of guarantee scheme does not apply at all to independent entrepreneurs, so one important segment of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia cannot apply it at all because it does not apply to them. Seventy-seven thousand independent entrepreneurs we have in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the majority of the membership of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry - they are not subject to this measure. And, of course, another problem is that these loans have come so late in the economy that for many economic operators, in fact, they are unnecessary, or at this point in time in time. Companies needed loans and a guarantee from the State for these loans at the time of the crisis, December, January, February, rather than June, when they had already abandoned those plans they had at the beginning and would, of course, be more or less in resolution to their crisis. So instead of these measures, which would promote economic activity, we were given the start of problems. First, how to preserve some social peace and some fictitious employment by subsidising full-time, by subsidising waiting for work and so on. No job will be retained in the long term by these measures unless the company is restructured. Anyone who thinks that production programmes are going to come back, that production volumes in companies are going to drop to a level, I don't know, in the summer of 2008 in the middle of the year, is wrong. They're not coming back! Not for the next 5 to 10 years. Companies should be restructured, money should be invested in investment projects in companies in order to partially re-employ people elsewhere. Now they are waiting, they are paddling around these companies until the end of this measure, there is no order and there is no, of course, because there can be none, and the result will be a headache in six months when this measure is put out, or one year after this measure is put out. And then this army will come back, and the money will be spent. This could, in my view, have been a complementary measure to promote economic activity and, by no means, a fundamental measure tackles the crisis. Why am I talking about these measures? Because the figures of these measures are reflected in the balance sheet; and this is crucial. Since these measures were not for economic activity in time under the first rebalancing, we are now witnessing a drastic decline in tax revenues, that is to say, a reduction in the revenue side of the budget while maintaining, if not even increasing, expenditure levels: for the first time for all of these transfers that have been, and subsidies that have been legalised and promised, as well as with some other subsidies and extremely modestly, not to say insufficiently, austerity policy of the Government when we are talking about the public sector and the functioning of the public sector. I cannot help but conclude that this budget has actually been maintained and that this other rebalancing has kept the functioning of the state apparatus virtually intact, because some stability is being bought here in the country and some peace in the country. It is said that it does not interfere substantially with any sphere of operation of the State. None! If we're talking about an order of 30, 40, 50% fell in some company, but here we're talking about a percentage of where, it's not a drastic, anti-crisis measure. This is a measure in normal situations, even the previous government had a minus 2% or minus 1% project. Well, that's not anti-crisis. Now that public financial revenues have fallen, tax revenues have fallen, this part of the expenditure related to the functioning of the country is still running out of money for investments. Normal! Not only the normal investments but also the investments linked to the use of European funds. This is really a problematic, most problematic thing. In the case of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, where they can, I would say, these investment projects are concentrated in development, in the generation of some economic activity and value added, we can conclude: minus 5 million at logistics centres, minus 10 million at the promotion of entrepreneurship - in particular small and medium-sized enterprises - minus 6.4 million on tourism infrastructure, minus 10 million on technology development projects of the economy, minus 40 million on the competitiveness of enterprises at the MVZT. These are, in fact, those segments that talk about drawing on European funds. So, in the last financial perspective we have, we are stalling in a time of crisis, we are delaying the drawing of European funds. What for? Now we need to speed up the pumping. Praise what good results you have in drawing on European funds, and here you are, in fact, delaying these things. And it's not true, what some of you have said is that there is no absorption, that there is no absorption ability. Just one piece of evidence for that. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund has concluded a public tender, allocated funds for this year. We could repeat the call or aim it even better for counter-crisis, there will be no more calls this year because there are no funds, because now you have taken $10 million and we are trying to fix it with an amendment. Instead of strengthening economic activity, in order for the government to work on how the economy breathes, how the economy creates jobs, how the economy generates taxes, the government deals with the consequences of falling economic growth on individual status. I'm not saying it's not necessary. This is necessary, but this is because the first measures do not work. But there were no first measures. And this is a key indication of the functioning of this government and of course of this correction. The credibility of this government will be measured whether this is the last correction, or whether we will have a correction in the autumn. So, the balance of the rebalancing. And such planning, my respects, worries me as if I were to build a house and make a different room every day, and in the end, I would think that the result is optimal. The plan is made in the beginning, and then it's walled. And if you knew what the crisis was like and what the crisis was like and if you knew that you were on the right track, you would have made an anti-crisis plan and followed it. You didn't know that, so you've accepted some packages, one, two, three, in the end we have for one package that will work in 30 years, I don't know, in this modernisation of different systems and we'll be happy to monitor how they will then appear in concrete form within the framework of the legal texts. When there was a speech earlier that there are no projects for infrastructure plans and so on - in Slovenia we have in some way already regions, we have 12 development regions. Each of these development regions has adopted both strategic and implementation development plans a decade ago. You asked the regions if they "like to go" development plans. Did you ask? You didn't! And I'll tell you why you didn't, because I know you didn't. For example, the previous government has adopted and then you've made this even an affair, the state spatial plan of the Phoenix logistics center. This is the centre in Posavje, in fact at the border of two municipalities, which is at a fantastic logistics location, near the airport under development, and along the highway and near Zagreb. The State Spatial Plan has been adopted. The former government launched the tender and visited a private investor at a civilian airport as well as the others. What have you done to find anyone in this area or to attract them in this area? Nothing. Of course, there are no investors, if no one is looking for them, let alone talk to them actively and deal with them. They're projects, they're activities to make projects meat, unfortunately, they're not, and that's what I think is the worst. What does this balance tell us? This rebalancing tells us that when I am and will repeat that I am worried about spending, I don't know, countries in a narrow sense without investment, without drawing on European funds, so without development projects for generations and, of course, we can expect only smaller and smaller revenues, the deficit is rounded to EUR 1.85 billion. 1.85 billion euros will, of course, be covered by debt. This will increase our public debt by 5.6%, measured in gross domestic product. Who's gonna pay for this? Who? Worse still, in this government's mandate, you plan 3 to 4% of deficits every year. Each year, you will be indebted to citizens for a billion euros, and so you will end your mandate if I correctly assess according to these documents, at about €4 to €5 billion higher debt, not to talk about the risks taken through guarantees, which are, of course, another story and even wider. I ask you: who, in what way will the economic operator repay this debt in 10 years' time, how much will you increase taxes to be able to pay it then? With economic growth falling, employment falling - how will individuals who will work in five, ten years from now be burdened to settle what you are creating here today? This is my assessment of the disastrous predictions. I would have no problem if this balance sheet had EUR 1.85 billion in deficit and the deficit would be for investment in development, knowledge, infrastructure. Then I would know that these investments will build a new economic activity that will be able to pay for it. In this way, as money is spent here, I am deeply afraid that public services will become more attractive because they are safe even during the crisis. Economic operators are even more at large because they will be running out of money because these revenues that they are today will not be, and the result will be that we will have a two if not another number in front of the deficit when we talk about billions at the end of the year. Sir, I cannot support such a document and such a policy and such a message to young people or taxpayers for the future. I can't. This is not only a destructive policy for this government, but a disastrous policy for Slovenia; and this worries me. And if ever, Slovenia would now need a cognition of political species, of power. If ever - now! There would probably be no 15 hours of debate on this side of the debate, but five. However, those 10 hours of debate would be extended within 50 hours or 100 hours of debate, but at the development dialogues on the future of such situations. When I spoke earlier about those start-ups and I mentioned how public debt was, how it was with the deficit, how it was with employment, let me also add how it was with competitiveness and with the implementation of the Lisbon strategy. Slovenia has been among the leading or third countries of the European Union in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, the reform process to increase growth and jobs. So much in response to those who say today that Slovenia was not - I don't know, well prepared. It's, you know, a very subjective assessment, it wasn't well prepared. Nobody's ready enough for anything. That's always the power to say that you can be even more prepared. Even the Olympic champion who won the Olympic gold medal could probably set a world record or not. It's always the power to be better. And also, indeed, Slovenia could be at the top in all categories and in all scales, but it was in a very good place, in short, in some condition when facing this crisis. But now we've become a problem. Not only is there a problem in this unfortunate foreign policy area in connection with our neighbour. We have also become a problem because we will be faced with serious treatment by the European Commission due to such a growing deficit in the Republic of Slovenia and a drastic deviation from the Maastricht criteria. We are lucky that you did not manage to get Slovenia to fly beyond the Maastricht criterion, because you will probably not succeed until the end of your term if you continue as you did. Because six, seven percentage points of GDP will lead us from this 23% at the end of the term can reach 50% or via. But I hope this doesn't happen. So, options and opportunities were, this second rebalancing is also a landing after the wrong first rebalancing. And I ask you nicely, realize that the third landing after this second missed rebalancing will be even harder, probably not for the government. Unfortunately, he'll be the toughest for the people he'll ever hurt the most. And I wouldn't tell you today if I wasn't worried about the most vulnerable people who end up paying the whole price. They'll pay you. And one will soon pay for it, those who are also the most vulnerable, the Pomurci, with such a relationship in fact, and I fear that other regions will follow, and again those most developmentally threatened first and least developed at the end or never. So, respectable, I think it would be right for you to think at least a little bit about two things: first, whether it would not be wise to side with the opposition too, because we are the very political villains, the assholes and those who want to dictate, but we also care about the fate of this country. And secondly, please take a bite in hard nuts, even though this will cause some anxiety and shock. In fact, the reference that Virant's reform has caused me no idea what kind of hole and wage problem is only half true. Until the half to which it was adopted at the time, signed and coordinated. However, things have changed dramatically since the start of the financial and economic crisis. Many countries, all countries in the world have redefined their plans, their projects, and some that were still up to date a month ago, have become obsolete. The crisis is an exceptional matter, and, as Mr Janša said, it also requires extraordinary measures. And I don't know why it wasn't possible to bury these projects for at least a while. Because if we buried them, we wouldn't be facing such a drastic expenditure on salaries in this sector, as much as 10% in the first five months or in the first five months, January - May 2008, January - May 2009 from €408 million to €448 million. Thus, with the start of the crisis, like many economic operators and other countries, it would be appropriate to redefine a number of projects that have been or have just begun. However, not one thing has happened, except that there has been waiting for what will happen and that the crisis will be over as soon as possible. And usually, if it's waiting, unfortunately, it's not waiting, but it's delayed waiting time, and unfortunately, it can't be paid twice, and we're here today. You have managed to place Slovenia after a gross domestic product among the lowest Member States of the European Union in the last six months. At the annual level, the decline for the first four months is minus 9%. It seems to me that three countries, two Baltic and Slovakia, are even worse than Slovenia. So the country of Slovenia, which had, I don't know, the fifth, sixth result of GDP growth in the past, has now fallen to fourth place in the back, that is to say for some 20 cities, in fact the same business environment. Because Slovakia or those Baltic countries that I counted are actually operating with similar partners and in a similar way, as well as Italy and others. Germany, however, fell significantly lower as the most important trading partner. So, I don't want to give you any arguments, but I can and will, if necessary, be of a statistical nature that shows that the crisis was a bad one, and that the key action is to deal with the crisis, the rebalance one, the bad one, the wrong one, and that the one who wants to fix something is even worse. He's going to cause a third one to be really alarming. And I don't know when you're going to realize that you're going to have to take a bite out of some sour apple and ever have a hard bargain with anyone. So in the SDS we have the ambition to slightly correct this document. However, we have one greater ambition, this is that the Government will listen, not only to us, but also to the economic circle that they want to prove to it from day to day that the measures are insufficient and that they are not timely. These are the conclusions of all the economic summits organised and not organised by the Government. Just one piece of data coming from the last craftsman when the Chamber of Commerce and Industry did a survey between craftsmen. She asked them if they thought that they had enough credits and that access to it was easier. 80% of craftsmen think they can't get it at all or they can get it much harder than before. So much for efficiency! Then we have no surprise if we have such bad numbers in relation to economic growth, industrial production, exports and investments. It is sad that you are extremely squandering investments, which will help to make the numbers below worse than they could be. And once again, I'm not going to support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mrs Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs wants to speak first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. When they say that claims become truth, if they are not denied, the honourable Member would kindly ask, if you have not listened before, that you do not repeat things that do not. The government had a duty to "refine the pay reform project, but it did nothing," so you summarised. Don't hold it. I said very well earlier that January's harmonisation was a fact that we failed to agree on the postponements in the social dialogue, as we were able to agree below. Did we redefine the project immediately in February - yes! After one month of night intense negotiations! And we did the following: we postponed the removal planned in 2009 to 2010. Coherence with inflation will not occur in 2009. So there will be no pay valorization, all agreed with the former government. After that, we agreed that workers, public servants, the cancellation of the payment of 2% of labour performance and an important part of the payment of the increased volume of work should be paid. So their wages are falling. Then as for the agreed height, it's irrelevant. [[...]] In short, the amount for 2008 was rescheduled. Your deal with them was much bigger. In this part of the rebalancing process, we have saved in the public sector for the purpose of redefining your agreement with the public sector unions 100 million euros and further with the proposed laws on reducing the salaries of officials for the year from April 2009 to April 2010 by 4% - it is for 3,000 officials in this country together with the judges of the judiciary. The total savings in wages, which have been fully standing since we were able to do something, in 2009: judges in 2009 get nothing in this year, you will see when we consider the proposal in September. Read carefully the bill's proposal, financial impact assessments, and therefore the negotiations were lengthy due to the indisputable framework I had in the negotiations, so that compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision could be agreed only to the extent that the current amount of wages for judges was available. For this reason, their alignment with the Constitutional Court’s decision will be made by 1 because they understand the public financial situation. 12. 2010 as for all other civil servants. We estimate that with neutral financial consequences. That's right. Read the materials, many of them, because we are doing a lot of work and, as you say, in this part, we are also correcting the mistakes and shortcomings of your government. State investments. I'll be very clear. Where we invest, at least at the Ministry of Public Administration and also at other investments, the State's commitment was clear: in order to promote economic growth in 2009, we will carry out all the investments that can be made in relation to the state of the project documentation, i.e. the building permit issued, today we are in July. And all these investments in the budget are. The fact that we did not create savings in material costs and investments for our basic work in the preparation of the second budget rebalancing is simply not true. All together, in the area of labour costs, material costs and investment costs in our public sector activities, we estimate in 2009 to be slightly less than 1% of gross domestic product or around EUR 300 million. You can't tell us we're not in. If I read you a list of the actions of our ministry, these measures actually go into an area that does not mean reducing our effectiveness, reducing development in areas where it is important, but where we could actually create significant savings. We will not restore computers for a period like that before, but we will simply try to postpone these renewals for one year. In the case of leases, where we perform as a tenant, we have managed to reduce the amount of rent by almost a million and a half. External contractors - I apologize, for the time of the previous government, the laws were written through external contractors. The competence of national law-making officials has simply weakened and has thus become very weak. We have major problems in this area. Therefore, we can be calm because we have the Government's conclusions that we have drawn up in the framework of austerity measures to prepare laws within the ministries, in cooperation with external experts within the working groups, with a precise payment that is valid for all the same when it comes to external operators. Since we will provide these services with our own human resources potential, at least we will save around €220,000. Investment maintenance. We've assessed what's necessary for action and what's not. At least we saved 2.8 million euros here. The existing public procurement contracts - by negotiating for new lower prices, we have saved 2.4 million euros. In short, it is obvious that we have done nothing in public administration and the public sector in these months to be comparable to the real sector - not true. It just doesn't hold. Maybe we're not talking about this much, and we're not bragging about it. The Member of Parliament is now not listening to me so that he can repeat a new story. And about employment. The data speaks for itself. Unless I do something during my term in this government, I will not mislead the public with information that we have managed to reduce the number of employees in public administration, the public sector - people do not separate between these terms, but they are very important - for the first time in the history of Slovenia. It just doesn't hold. Two stories affect wages: the number of public employees paid under the Public Sector Wages Act and their amount agreed in the 2008 Social Dialogue. When we did the personnel analysis, when we took over the mandate, which every responsible master does, we found out the following - and I repeat. The public sector, which is essential, is cca. 155 thousand public servants, that's all who work in the state administration, the military, the police and the uniformed part - we're talking about cca here. 35,000 employees. Everyone else is employed in education, higher education, health, social welfare homes, employment institutions and so on. These are all people who provide public services to our citizens on a daily basis, because we are a social state and we have a lot of public services. In December 2004, when the previous government took over the mandate, APESA reported that 150 000 177 civil servants were employed. In December 2008, when we took over the mandate, there were 156 thousand 381. These data shall be calculated by dividing the number of hours performed by public servants - thus adding up the IAPES - by 8 and producing this number. The difference you have produced in your mandate was 6,204 more employees, or so many hours spent, which put pressure on the mass of salaries in public cash registers, health care, the state budget, PPIZ and so on. These are the facts. Tomorrow, look at the I.P.P.S. data. For four years you told the Slovenian public that you managed to reduce the number of employees in public administration by 2%. Hold on, in four years. But what quota did you measure - a civilian part of the government! 31. 12. was employed 17 139, 1. 12. 2008 16 723, minus 400, i.e. only in the civil part of the state administration, these are state officials. But you've been making a lot of wages. 5,500 new civil servants. So 6 thousand more in four years, minus 500 saved or net is 6,000, because in these numbers that I said before, the hidden hours that the public servants had done were for so many more. I have presented this information to you in the measures on the thirties which the current government is now dealing with, this is not a criticism of your Government, that is a fact. And the statement you're making about not dealing with anything, but I said here that we also tried this part, which you didn't with any systemic action, so the number of employees in the public sector, was controlled because it grew on average by eight hundred new people per year and so many more hours spent, according to the data of AJPESA in March 2009. So if we took over one hundred sixty-six thousand three hundred and eighty-seven employees in the public sector, today we have reduced them to one hundred sixty-three hundred and fifty-three hundred one. You cannot therefore tell us that we are not reducing the number of employees, or at least that we are actually limiting it as that significant pressure on the mass of wages. What did we consciously decide? The government and the crisis group have indisputably taken a decision not to support the reduction in the number of employees in the public sector by cancelling employment contracts for business reasons, as this would further increase the problem of unemployment and put additional pressure on the resources allocated to unemployed people, given the overall reduction in the number of employees in the public sector. This is an indisputable position of the Government for 2009, and we present to you, within these measures, the economic and social partners and so on. I'm asking you so nicely, the numbers speak for themselves. We are not saying that we are the best at saving in the public sector, but that the obvious that nothing has been done is absolutely unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u35	On behalf of the applicant, she asked for the floor of the Secretary of State of Mag. Helena Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Two wrong conclusions have already been made in the previous address by Mr Visiak, and I think it is right to comment on them or to say actual figures that do not justify these conclusions. It is about reducing funds drawn from European funds. In 2008, funds amounted to 363 million. Our plan is that they will be exhausted at 814 million. This is said to be not really a reduction, but it is more than 100% increase in expected drawbacks. The same applies to investment investments. This is not a reduction in funds either, but together, investment transfers and direct investments in the state budget are increasing by 24% compared to 2008. It is difficult to say that we are reducing these parts of the expenditure of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are going back to the debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! When we talk about whether someone is aware of the real situation or not, and when I listen to the debates of opposition Members that the Government is not aware of it, it is very clear that if we want to establish a dialogue with regard to the situation in both the financial and economic sectors around the world, we need to speak realistically from both sides. And the government certainly proposes a rebalancing because the reality is what all institutions that monitor either economic growth or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is the Ministry of Finance, which monitors what is happening in the public financial field. This is one of those very real indicators on which budget changes are also being prepared. I think that it is also clear to everyone who is trying to follow the preparation of budgets at least a little bit that, if the revenue side does not reach the planned resource, the calculation should also be harmonised or reduced on the expenditure side, or resources that reduce this difference in terms of the previously planned revenue. And that's what you do in the balance sheet. At the same time everyone voting against the balance is also opposed to counter-crisis measures, and they have always been an integral part of the rebalancing that we have adopted during this period in the National Assembly. And they are also needed to mitigate the situation in the economy and in the financial sector, and ultimately in each individual. Even when we are trying to make a comparison of who is making a real assessment of the situation today and how he sees reality even before today's situation, it may be that part of the former Prime Minister's debate, which he said in his parliamentary group, that legislation is always adapting to the current situation and that is the reality that we are facing today. The current situation under the previous mandate was such that economic growth was extremely high; but, look. Even then, the former Governor of Banka Slovenije warned that we must be very careful and that the government is making a very big mistake if it plans only on high economic growth and does not realize that this economic growth can also dry up and begin to decline at some point. What did the previous government do because of this warning? She replaced the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and sentenced him almost as someone acting against the interests of the State. This is this reality, and if we don't realize it, all we are talking about today is very unrealistic if we can't really assess yesterday as well. It is much easier to realistically assess yesterday than tomorrow, because it is tomorrow's plan on which we are planning something and we are trying to achieve it. And the balance, including the one before us, listens to some solutions for the future, taking into account what has happened in the past. But in fact, we are faced with the fact that what happened in the past does not want to be evaluated in real terms, at least by the opposition. In addition, the fact that many international institutions, particularly the International Monetary Fund, have also pointed out that we have too much budget in Slovenia. We have about 70% of all expenditure already cemented in the light of commitments already made, and in fact we have maybe 20, 30%, which we are committed to remind ourselves of some new projects and looking for new solutions. The International Monetary Fund has pointed to this in its previous mandate, but nothing has actually happened in this area. Even when we took over the euro, there were warnings that we would also have to adjust our fiscal policy, but that we did not really adapt it. And if it was, let's say, one coffee was valid for 1 tolar, today is coffee 1 euro. This is just one of those parts where it also did not follow the real situation and tried to adjust fiscal policy when the euro was taken over. Taking into account also the European Commission's warning to the previous Government that budgetary flexibility must be increased, as I have already mentioned, and that more efficient spending of public funds should also be actually prepared and more effective public administration should be put in place. In fact, nothing has happened in this area, on the contrary - we have increased public consumption and no greater efficiency anywhere. And if we return to 2007, which was presented by the opposition as one of the most fertile and successful years in the history of Slovenia. Since 2005, economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness. And it was in 2007 that this debt was already at the level of EUR 10 billion, which means that 6.8% of gross social product growth was actually on an unrealistic basis. So much for the most successful year in Slovenia alone. The fact is that the total gross external debt since 2004 amounted to 15.3 billion euros until 2008 when it amounted to 39.8 billion euros. 100% increase in gross external debt in the largest economic growth! Sorry, we really have to ask ourselves here what's wrong with someone who thinks in a way that when there's high economic growth, he owes the country 100%, as it was, say, in charge of those events. And if we add to this a very well-known fact that, at the moment of the greatest economic growth, we decided to go to finance the construction of highways with indebtedness, not with budget resources, it is just another roofing evidence or the next roofing evidence of how unrealistic it was planned and indebted - even the motorway when it was not necessary. And, of course, at a time when economic growth was already so very high, we were also promoting economic growth and promoting inflation, which was one of the biggest problems in the previous period. All of this suggests that Slovenia has come under an enormous burden at this moment of economic downturn and a very difficult financial situation in the financial sector around the world. So we were too indebted and too well organised to respond to the economic and financial crisis today in six months. And it is interesting to listen when presented as one of the most effective measures to subsidize the purchase of refrigerators. This was, in fact, the only concrete measure that a person could see in this debate, that this is some short-term measure that would change the decline of economic growth in Slovenia, but at the same time we hear a warning that whoever thinks we will still have as high productivity as we had in 2008, and that such products as they were produced in 2008, will still be produced, seriously wrong - yes, of course, and that is the problem! Even in the part where we could invest more in development and higher technologies and look for new markets that would be provided by new technological products, this did not happen at a time of high economic growth. And look, today, when we need really healthy and calm reflection with our managers, what do we face in Slovenia? We are faced with the need to remedy their unrealistic planning and approval of previous policies to rent loans to buy shares in companies that are significantly above the revenues that these companies could otherwise generate through their added value, which they should invest in development, but did not invest in development because it was necessary to own as much of the company as possible and thus to acquire equity. So, at a time when we should be preparing for the crisis, managers did not prepare, at least a large part of the managers, not all, to prepare for the crisis, but tried to increase their shares in enterprises on unrealistic fundamentals, which were also largely supported by the then bank. And today, instead of managers looking for new solutions, new technologies, they're smashing their heads with how to get rid of this commitment. And this is a very bad basis for us to be effective in these very difficult economic conditions. Therefore, it seems to me that it is also extremely important to drink pure wine during this period and also to say that, at a time when the number of employees is decreasing and when the inflow to the pension and health allowance is decreasing, it is probably extremely important and essential that the rebalance also respond to this reduced inflow to the pension and health allowance. And this rebalancing brings EUR 125 million of the budget, which we are replacing in the pension fund because there are not as many employees at this point as at some point in time in high economic growth can also be planned. And if this rebalancing hadn't been adopted, where would we secure the pension money? The same applies to medical bills. It is a very important task for the Minister of Health to face a deficit of EUR 125 million in the health treasury due to a further drop in contributions of EUR 70 million. This is an extremely difficult task that is being pursued and implemented through the reform of health care. And all this is done by the Government in the most difficult economic and financial situation, so that tomorrow will be financially sustainable and manageable. They're so obvious that they don't know the real situation, far away from it. We are well aware of them, so these measures are also proposed. If we look at measures that are expected to bring greater competitiveness to Slovenia in the future - concrete data from this budget, however, also talk about an increase in the budget by EUR 552 million in the economy, which means an even 206% increase compared to 2008. Science and technological development is also increasing by almost 50% compared to 2008. Education is also increasing by EUR 118 million compared to 2008. Therefore, the Government is already deciding at this point when it has to align its public revenue and expenditure, including with a development policy that will certainly also be reflected in new technologies, new products, but at this point it is necessary to rescue companies that do not currently have an open market enough to sell what they are able to produce. Therefore, working time is subsidised, both in large companies and in medium-sized enterprises, and legislation will also be adopted for each individual to mitigate this crisis. And also to the one who came into the crisis because yesterday, when he had a job, he also hired a loan to solve his problem, and that is why he takes over by means of a new bill, the State guarantee, in order to alleviate the personal distress of every individual in Slovenia. Therefore, the range of measures that relate to each individual to the largest economic society and to the vision of the future is, not least, possible in this budget balance and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I personally do not mind the first balance or the second balance, but if necessary, the third balance, if we want to adapt to the situation and achieve a better situation and the best results. It is true, however, that once again a rebalancing event and the opportunity for some here in this Chamber to be accounted for, to criticize the former government, and probably not all criticisms are justified, or for the former government to wear new medals, which is not always justified in all cases. However, I believe in a good purpose that the aim is the same for all to find as soon as possible and as short as possible the most effective way and way out of this situation as it is. The fact is that the revenues are lower, that GDP is falling, that there is an export problem here and that this situation dictates action by the state budget. And I know that the planners are the ones who have been looking for the best possible solutions in this situation, and that these possible solutions are here in hand and here before us - we are discussing them today. Of course, there are many amendments back here that want to redistribute funds in this budget, but when there is no funding, it is very difficult to allocate anything else. In DeSUS, we were also thinking about making amendments, but we weren't sure that this was good because we didn't have a choice, we had no idea where to take the money and give it for the purposes for which DeSUS took it. For DeSUS, all the items in the budget and in the balance sheet are very important and we have done a lot of research. It is important for us to have additional resources here to promote the economy, to maintain jobs, to put resources into technological development and technology. All of this gives us an answer to the question whether the balance is development-oriented. It is absolutely development-oriented in this respect, and even if these funds are not as much as they would like to, then the planner has tried to make at least what is possible of all these commitments that the budget and the rebalancing bear, to this end, which will generate new jobs and generate development, technological development and somehow make better conditions for the future. For us, of course, the part that concerns social transfers is extremely important. DeSUS is also particularly sensitive to the part relating to the maintenance of the pension register, which we see that the planner is working hard or the government is trying to keep it here, to keep in some way also the medical cash register, the health insurance register, that here all these social transfers, including those laws that were adopted yesterday, are said to be about the single cash assistance or financial assistance for the socially disadvantaged. These are the things that certainly make us happy and that we absolutely support them very much. However, the fact is that, like all debaters and probably every party, it is aware that the outcome of this crisis will be possible when we evenly share this burden of crisis. And this is about the public sector. This is a public sector that may not be as keen on belt tightening as some other areas. But I am sure that what the Minister has said is that it is also thought and that there is still a chance that something will happen in this area of the public sector and in the interests of an even better balance. Of course, in DeSUS, we believe that the way out is better and easier if we spend much more on investment. Of course, the answer is, if there's money, if there's money, then you can invest in it. Investments like generators of all good or new jobs and everything else are very important at the moment. At the time when we are talking about money, we cannot go beyond the fact - otherwise, State Secretary Kamnareva was responsible for drawing on European funds, but in this case we should see a unique opportunity, and there is an opportunity and opportunity, in drawing on European funds. The calls don't run at the same rate and with the dynamics we want them to. In a local community where the forces of significant investment supported by European resources are waiting for calls. There's not all the calls yet. We are aware that September is when the final deadline for drawing reports or the final deadline for issuing all situations for the accounting of these funds from these sources is. But there are still no invitations today - all those who would like to. The government and individual ministries may well know where the exits and the nearest exits are. The situation is that we can say that the balance, once said, is the most appropriate response to this situation. We cannot now plan some expenses, but if we have an ever-increasing gap in our incomes. All the recipes shared by the former government - well, about the government, even about the criticisms of the former government, we cannot accept everything. Finally, DeSUS formed an ex-government. But all the recipes that the former government shares with the current government are not acceptable. Because the former government has acted under completely different conditions than it did after the economic and financial crisis. Probably every guide and every recipe is welcome, but it's every single one to check and to clear up whether it's the one who's "pulling" or not. A worrying and, of course, dissatisfaction is the comparison with comparable EU countries. If in these comparisons Slovenia is seen somehow in negative trends and increasingly negative, then this is not cute. Then this is not what we should or should have the opportunity to give commendation to the delegation or DeSUS. I am confident that the measures, all the packages of measures taken by the Government and taken by it, may also be the next rebalancing that bothers me absolutely nothing. That these measures will once be taken in such a way that when we compare ourselves with other countries of the European Union, we will not be on the tail somewhere; that the situation will begin to change, that the situation will start to improve. So let me finish. This balance is acceptable to DeSUS. However, DeSUS will absolutely oppose all the amendments that have been tabled because each amendment in its own way would cut into this balance so that the situation would change completely, blur and become completely new moments to which we should react. So we confirm this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. The budget is not something we start again every time, but it is the result of a policy which, in an ideal situation, would always represent the continuity of some of the country's development ambitions. Today, this debate points to a deep gap between understanding the origins. Previously, we were able to hear long and wide about the golden heritage of John John’s day. Such interpretations of the opposition remind me of the words of George Walker Bush when he said at the time of the budget: "Of course this is the budget, because there are many numbers in it." Of course we won't get far this way. Why did Slovenia suffer such a fall in gross social product? Because we are an extremely export and open economy. The opposition has been blaming the current government for at least half a year and exports depend on something else. Indeed, of whether we are capable of selling the product we produce successfully on a foreign market. Unfortunately, with the exception of a few rare exceptions, which in Slovenia produce rounded, comprehensive, final products, there are some important exceptions, which also have strong brands and highly technologically sound development, our export industry largely produces components. In the case of the automotive industry, this in Slovenia employs a poor third of all employees in the economy, in fact, means that we usually work one product for only one buyer. That is why we are so vulnerable to influences and situations in other markets across Europe and the world today. Here we actually come to a key sin: the absence of developmental restructuring in earlier times, when we could, we did not create great surpluses. That is why we are always faced with the opposition, I think, successfully, building an alibi for the functioning of the previous government. This is a time when, instead of smart structural reforms, we have made some serious structural mistakes. This was the time when we started a high debt. That's right. With this rebalancing we continue this debt. But why? Because at a time when you were ruling, when you could create surpluses, you did not leave exactly any reserves that today would represent gold so that as a country and as a community could respond better to the new situation. Another time. You have created such an economic and corporate climate that has stimulated the size of ownership or managers' purchases, where the main focus of an important part of the Slovenian management focused on corporate governance rather than on their development restructuring. And if you want to be able to discuss this line again long and wide, I think we could come up with fantastic conclusions about your government's legacy. And finally high economic growth. Remember, that record Mr Grims previously mentioned was achieved in low added value sectors, typical of two cases: trade and construction. Id that high economic growth today as an economy and as a community we have nothing. Therefore, your conduct best describes the second quote, said economist Joseph I. Levine, who said: "You can fool all the people all the time, if advertising is right and the budget is big enough." Our government has serious problems because we know that it has some minor problems with its advertising, and especially because its budget is shrinking rapidly. This is why major structural errors of the past are being revealed today. And that. As we look at this scheme of comparative analysis of the fall of GDP in the European Union Member States, there is still one interesting conclusion that the higher decline in GDP in those countries that had equal or higher GDP growth in 2007 - the Baltic countries are typical of this. I think that in the balance that is ahead of us today, we are achieving an important achievement. I would like to see such an achievement, for example, by the former government. EUR 228 million of savings created, the rationalisation of the country's expenditure on the fact that this budget also increases investment and developmental orientation according to the level created in 2008. With this balance, we keep in the budget all the funds that can be operational this year; that is, those funds that we can use in 2009 and will certainly have a macroeconomic impact. I think that it is a fundamental task or goal of this rebalancing to preserve all key counter-crisis measures, to add something new, such as what we will take tomorrow, which, with the aim of preserving social security people, will increase the liquidity of the economy and also increase their competitiveness. And when we listen to the opposition's representatives; I consider these opinions to be legitimate, but I would like a little more objectivity to have a better cooperation between the coalition and the opposition in order to make this cooperation better. Because when I listen to Mr Visiak, I cannot help feeling that the crisis in Slovenia would not have happened if the government of Janez Janša were still sitting in that place. This is, of course, a mistake, and this does not contribute to the building of a bridge of constructive cooperation in this hall. And one more thing. Earlier, Mr Vizjak spoke about the Phoenix Economic Centre in Brežica, pointing his finger at the current government: you are responsible because you did not fill this economic centre with the right content. You know, this was an absolutely privileged political project by Mr Visionak in Posavje. 2 million, I mean, direct funds to invest in a logistics center that is today without content! And you dare to point your finger at the current government and say that this is the responsibility of the current government! No, this is the responsibility of your government, your attitude towards public funds, and, last but not least, a mirror of one of the responsibilities of the former Minister of Vision. I expect this rebalancing to give its results now in the second half - I sincerely hope so. I am one of those who have elected this government, so I join the right to be critical of it, and I want to increase efficiency in many areas. Above all, I hope that successful measures in the labour market, which have at least plagued the rise in unemployment, will not even stabilise employment in order to join these measures with a successful guarantee scheme. I think it gives results, but we need to do something small to make it operational for the economy or companies B and C ratings, to solve some more problems with this rebalancing to recapitalise both the largest state banks - the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank also to make these two banks more competitive in obtaining liquidity in foreign and interbank markets. Finally, these funds also directly affect the increased liquidity of the Slovenian economy, which is still the first task. Finally, in the coming months, we are talking about grants, direct and better targeted incentives, as you proposed in your set of proposals for action, for technological restructuring, research and development, for a more effective business support environment, for increasing competitiveness and investment. I think we have some positive signals. I personally expect a difficult fall, followed by a long period of stagnation. The sustainability of public finances is essential during this period. Even in order to be able to respond in the long term to the things that will follow, this rebalancing is short-lived in the long run.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellows! The adoption of the budget or the rebalancing of the budget is certainly the most important decision that the National Assembly has to make, as well as the most important document that the Government will give each year, showing how we will live in that year and in the coming years. While I have been making quite a critical assessment of the first rebalancing, there is nothing I can do to avoid saying critical assessments today. But, dear colleagues from the coalition, I am not misunderstood in criticising the coalition, criticizing the government and to a large extent the attitude towards this serious situation that we have. And on the basis of what has been said today, I think we should give this place a very clear message to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that we do not have the opportunity to adopt a good balance of the budget, that we do not have the opportunity to adopt such a balance that we would be satisfied with, but that we have a balance which, in my opinion, is in such a way that it seriously endangers the health of Slovenian public finances, is said to be our fiscal policy. When some numbers have been said today that I will not repeat, but I mention them just to make us aware that sometimes I feel that we are not aware of the reality of the situation in which we are talking about a development-oriented budget, about a good budget. Our budget is now so that it has almost 10 billion expenses if I round it. If we go in individual parts, we have 83% of current expenditure and 81% of revenue. We spend 200 million more a year to cover current revenues; it is said, from hand to mouth, and from then on come the investment revenues for which debt is required. In other words, we need 23% of as much credit as we have tax revenue to scrape these finances together. We are talking here about responsibilities and the health of Slovenian finances. The fact that we have to have a billion eight hundred net funding this year is a terrible information. Even more terrible data is that the net indebtedness of Slovenia in this year is two billion and a half billion. And now what's the difference between these six million, if you look at the financing account, is that the financial claims and investments account is six fifty million minus. So we have to invest another six fifty million in the Ljubljana Bank, in the KBM Bank, in the Sid Bank, so that the first two state banks are still capital-appropriate so that they can function properly and give credits and two hundred and fifty million in the Sid Bank to give measures to our economy. When we put this together, we see that we spend as much as 30% more money this year than we have at our disposal. And if from a simple farm of logic, because I grew up there, I say, on farmers, we say that our land is failing and that if we do that for a few more years, we will be sold. When we had this strong mathematics here today around public debt and these numbers, look, since we all have laptops in front of us, I pulled myself out: at the end of 2000, when the previous government adopted the leadership of this country, it was slightly less than €5 billion in public debt or 27%. Over the years, the country worked from 2.5% to 4% minus and increased public debt by two thousand four billion, which is seven billion and a half, by 50%. However, as gross social income grew, the share was that the public debt was 27.28% all the time. Since 2005, it has been said that at the end of 2004 this public tax has been seven thousand and three hundred and sixty million. The government, which is so obvious to her now, and according to Mr Vebra, how she owed her debt, in four years she owed a thousand billion and a public debt of one hundred million, is 1.1 billion. This means that the public debt was 8,8,473,000.000. This year, however, we will increase this public debt from 8.4 billion to 10.3 and 10.9, if we consider what we invest in banks. Last week, 14 days ago tomorrow, we had the opportunity to obtain the government's material, which represents the answers. Minister Gaspari presented an overview of the implementation of the anti-crisis measures, where on page 5 of this material is a threatening table for me. The table shows how at the end of 2013 we will already have 49.7% of public debt under the government scenario. If this happens, these are two budgets and more, we will pay 10% of the budget per year for interest. This is this cruel reality, which calls us to great responsibility, not to account for what the previous government has done wrong, what the current work is doing wrong, but to rent here some consensus that we will go before the Slovenian public, before the Slovenian economists, with which it will have to be decided that we will not, as it says in this document, have by 2013 under or around 40% of public finances and public finances at the level of 46,4, 47,5, 46,8, 45,9, 45,2. That's what I'm saying. We're gonna waste the country, the land, if we keep doing this. And where are these options? There's a lot of them! The government has been called on to play a proactive role in this area and it has certainly been said that there are two options: one is to create conditions where we will create more, that we can get more taxes with economic activity, without having a higher percentage of taxation, and that public spending will be close to 50%, but that we will release it below 40%. And on the other hand, in my profound belief, it is necessary to cut down on public spending. We are reducing by 6% this year's gross social income or what will be the reduction. On the other hand, we are successful if the expenditure has increased by 6.6% for public administration in paid work. I cannot agree with this and many governments, many countries have made cuts. They just found out, and I think we're going to have to do this work too, very badly, which is not going to be a broad social consensus, but if we're not going to have everyone on the street in two, three years from now, because they're not going to have anything else to do, we have to do today, to those who have bigger salaries, once again and more, to those who have smaller, I don't know, nothing or something small, and we're going to do crisis measures for two, three years, in which we're going to do this. Otherwise, I don't see how we're gonna do it. As far as the action is concerned. I also supported these measures so that people have, I don't know, four hours paid per week, eight hours paid. But the conclusion, not us, but the broader conclusion is that we will not be able to get these jobs back quickly, as we have in the past. I think we have to look, look for work for these 100,000 people who will be home very soon and will have nothing to do and will have to find and activate these people in some way. Whether it will be in the form of some public works, or whether it will be in the form of aid, I do not know if we will reduce through public works parts of the public administration and that it will be activated here, I think we need to find an active role very quickly, otherwise it will be a big problem. Such cuts and such crisis action, I am aware that it is not easy to achieve consensus in social dialogue on such issues. But I'm afraid because they were already very serious and very on the spot warned that if we don't do anything, and what this document says is that there can be a scenario if we do something, or there's a spontaneous scenario. Spontaneous scenario means that some assumptions from the past years are moving forward. The situation is so changed, so different that it unconditionally requires these structural changes. This means what has already been said today: the transition of this budget should be two, three, five laws to be adopted, and they would adopt a change. And that's what I think we should do at the first rebalancing, and we don't have it now. If this government starts with structural changes to seriously talk on vacations, as we have heard from the last meeting, that this circle is once again sitting down and starting a serious conversation, I am afraid, I am not very afraid, it is impossible to take this into account in the 2010 budget. I am afraid that this social dialogue will take you so far in 2010 that if anything happens in 2011, or there will be a problem because they will be back in 2010 and will accept the problem again. But if we lead our policy from election to election, we don't do well. I think that the claim made by the esteemed John Oman is that in some ways the government of Janez Janša "fell an axe in honey" because he lost the election. However, this does not dissuade anyone from taking serious and responsible cuts in budgetary spending and finding answers. Drawing on European funds. In the 2007 accounts, there were so many words about failed policies. I am monitoring very well, and we are actively implementing this policy at the local level: 90% or even more of the funds that will be absorbed this year are the funds that are based on calls from the past period. That is why we see that this policy has not been so wrong. This is our chance. These years, things need to be stepped up, all the resources involved. I do not hope to give my own judgment, but I see the Minister for Higher Education here, I sincerely wish that these measures, technological development, achieve their purpose and give results. I am aware, we are investing in colleges in the municipality and we are aware that the results are 10 years from now. I hope that the measures will really be targeted so well that they achieve implementation, so that, in the end, it will not only be spending this money, we will not ultimately have this necessary technological development. Otherwise, these funds from the European Union are present here. It is also important to be aware that we have more than 400 million of these resources on the revenue side this year, rather than on the expenditure side, that these funds will be in a significantly different relationship after 2013, and that this also requires fundamental structural changes, as there is another 1% of the gross social income down here that we now have positive at the expense of the plus from European funds. So on my part, unfortunately, I have decided not to vote on this budget. The table of amendments and the vote on the amendments in this House is for the opposition of Sisyphus, nothing is accepted, even if there is something good; and the responsibility, if it were such a role that such a budget should be adopted and proposed, would suggest a much more radical budget, so I will not vote on this budget today. And the coalition, I'm not avoiding any responsibility, but I just want to say that I'm not satisfied with this preparation. However, if there are 50 votes against 20 or 21 on the other hand, it does not matter, but my vote or my vote is an expression of disagreement with such a leading policy in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The list submitted for discussion to the general part of the proposal is exhausted. I see a desire to discuss it. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I must say that at some point it is true that there is not an ideal budget balance ahead of us, that there is not a balance like everyone would like to have together, and that perhaps the funds are not covered in such a form for all the projects that we would like to have, that we are also in the development direction of Slovenia and that we are fully satisfied with them. It is true, however, that despite the reduction in investment funds, projects remain largely budgeted, and this is also a commendable part of the team involved. Compared to the 2008 budget, key development areas are still significantly increasing compared to 2008 and even in previous years. This increases the economy by €552 million, amounting to €820 million in 2009. That's a big increase. This means almost 206% increase. The area of science and technological development is increasing by almost 50%, or 106 million euros, and the area of education, which is also increasing by 118 million euros and 7.4%, respectively, in 2008. Therefore, despite the very poor conditions for the composition of the rebalancing, some projects remain crucial, the items are improving, increasing, which is, of course, targeted and very important in these times. The government, as we can see, wants to devote more resources to the country's development projects, but under these particularly acute fiscal conditions, only those programmes that can be implemented this year and are estimated to have the most impact on the Slovenian economy. With the restructuring of the budget, let us hope, and we must all make every effort to do so, more resources will have to be provided in the coming years, especially for programmes that have positive development effects. Political consensus will also need to be found between political parties to abolish or reduce programmes that do not have or have minor positive effects. For example, there are some such good measures within the budget balance. It should be said that when we talk about measures, measures should be divided into two segments. One is those who are somehow mitigating the economic and financial crisis, and the other are those who are encouraging the economic work so that it can enter European and global markets more competitively. One of these, for example, when we are talking about measures that are mitigating, and these are also particularly important because people in these times are in distress, the Law on Partial Reimbursement has replaced wages. You have seen that €47 million is foreseen for this purpose in the balance sheet. The main objective is to maintain 25,000 jobs. According to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs have so far managed to maintain 8 000 jobs. With this reformed or better law or the continuation of this law, it is estimated that more jobs would be kept. The next measure under the intervention measures is then a low-value programme for the implementation of the aid. There are many companies that, due to the liquidity problems they have at the moment, cannot process the projects they have set up, say, at a time of economic growth. And it is not right that good projects, especially those projects that are development-oriented, stand at some point. It is therefore very encouraging on the part of the State that it has invested €40 million in the balance sheet, that these projects can also be encouraged, that they will not remain in place, and that liquidity problems will not be the main cause, say, that some things do not move forward. Then there is the Act on a Special Supplement to the Socially Introduced of €15 million. That's what we discussed yesterday. Even though there have been many debates that the target group or generation group should be helped at this time, it is necessary to know that all groups at some point today are at risk, all generation groups, and that all must be helped equally. This is why the government has decided on this special supplement, which, as you know, will move from €80 to €200. So between €80 and € 160 for individuals and €200 for families. What is essential is that we continue to look at the substantial increase in resources for an active employment policy of €23.5 million, which is particularly important during this period, as these resources will primarily be devoted to training and additional education, especially for those who are already employed and those who are barely entering the labour market. The next such measure is the promotion of public works. These will be after the new 10,000, which is 6,000 more than ever. Then there is co-financing of investments, development and new technological solutions within businesses of EUR 100 million. It is also a measure that somehow helps the direct economy to maintain those programmes that are good and encourages new ones. The area of young people, for example, has been regulated to some extent now, although we cannot be fully satisfied with, say, the law on scholarships. As we recall, the previous law on scholarships in censorship also counted the child’s allowance, pension, and all the other contributions that the family was making, leaving 17,000 young applicants most in need of scholarships at the door. The government has abolished this condition, it is said that this matter is no longer considered a censor. And more than that, we used to have a 60 to 65% minimum salary award, now this price is 65 to 86% minimum wage, 70% for single-parent children and special-needs children. This actually means that we can start with a new school year, and in these days it's also very important to start with 8,000 new scholarships. True, we cannot be entirely satisfied at this point. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already announced the restructuring of the law on scholarships in the sense that we will try to give the larger population better access to studies, in particular as regards financial salaries. Then there's the housing market. If ever, then, especially in these times, we can release mainly those apartments that have so far been empty and the country has paid 3.5 million euros a year for them, which is a huge contribution to the country. And these are basically the assets that have been throwing themselves out the window in the past few years. This must not happen to us, especially because of this, not because we want to make more effective use of state property. It is very encouraging that 170 apartments will be transferred to the Housing Fund in autumn, which will then be immediately available for use by young and young families. Further action - and these are quite something, you can see for yourself that the balance brings quite a few positive measures. In no way does anyone claim that, say, at this point, the Government and the competent services must continue to be active in this area and try to find even better and new solutions. Once again: it is not a problem to solve the economic and financial crisis in such a way as to allocate funds. However, since we do not have them, we need to look for so-called "wonderful" measures so that we can mitigate the economic and financial crisis and, on the other hand, promote development. Thus, it is one of the key measures that will be scheduled for tomorrow, a guarantee scheme for natural persons, which will also allow access to credit as a guarantee scheme for the economy to those who so far have not had it, and especially those who are employed for a certain period of time, young families and, in particular, those who have not been able to repay the loans. And at some point, dear colleagues and colleagues, something really worries me. On the one hand, we see the great willingness of all of us to resolve the financial and economic crisis. On the other hand, some statements in the media can be very irresponsible and have negative consequences. In doing so, we must note that such declarations may harm the economy of Slovenia. In any event, Janez Janša's statement was also made abroad when he stated that Slovenia could also go bankrupt. These are statements by a man who was Prime Minister and who, with such statements or other statements, can encourage consumer neglect and quickly reverse the vicious circle. These are not responsible statements especially of those who sincerely want the economy to continue positively. Just as there is no responsible statement by former Prime Minister Sanader that he resigned because of Slovenia. These are political games that responsible politicians and all those who have a picture of the country in front of you, unfortunately, should not go. And when we're talking primarily about borrowing. Today there has been a lot of talk about how this government essentially owes itself; and indeed, we will have a problem if we owe the young generations in the future in advance. But there's something we need to be aware of. This policy has also been established in previous mandates. For more than 100% of us, we have committed ourselves at the time of economic growth and, suddenly, the opposition expects in a time of economic crisis that the country can solve its problems in a different way. It's not working right now. But if we have a different recipe, we have a different recipe with him every day! Of course, it must be borne in mind that there is an absolute responsibility to public finances. And one more time to remember. In 2007, countries with lower economic growth and lower inflation had a much higher surplus of the wider sector, such as Slovenia had in 2007. I'll do it again. Denmark had an excess gross domestic product at 1.4% of economic growth in 2007. Spain at 2.3% economic growth 2.2% surplus. The Netherlands, with a growth rate of 2.5%, of 0.4%, and Germany, with major public financial problems, had a surplus of 0.1% in 2.2 economic growth. Slovenia is said to have had the same share of surplus in gross domestic product as Germany, despite the fact that Germany had three times lower economic growth than Slovenia and twice lower inflation. In 2006, the government at 5.9& economic growth was unable to generate surpluses, the surplus in 2007 was minimal and 6.8 economic growth and in 2008 we were again in the minus. And when we're so eager to teach others how to act and say that this government has taken the economy from plus eight to minus four and minus eight, it's just ballast. All together, at some point, the situation in financial markets has contributed to a lot of work on the implementation of certain measures, not to say that this is enough, of course, some measures will still have to be implemented, we all have to work together to do so. There is no simple recipe for a way out of this, but no one can say today that this government and this Parliament are not sincere, at least I hope that we can come out of this better or at least come out of it. We must be aware that at some point our country needs a single policy, and when we talk about dialogue and the call for us to sit at the common table and come to some negotiations in terms of partnership, trust must first come between us. I'm afraid there's still no such thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. The time we live is not pink or magical, it is far from miraculous, it is real, and at this time, I believe that there is no one among us who would envy any government president or everyone else in the government, ministers and ministers who believe and know that they have a difficult task of leading their ministry and being successful in times of economic and financial crisis, as much as at this time can be successful. However, I believe that the difficult situation of the economic and financial crisis can be mitigated at this time, and I am of the opinion that this is a success for the Government, regardless of its comments. This is also confirmed by the opinion of the European Commission, and we cannot help but see the positive views of the international institutions on Slovenia's anti-crisis measures. The European Commission estimates that when the Government responds to the European Economic Recovery Plan, it acted in a timely manner by adopting two stimulus packages, the first in December 2008 and the second in February 2009. The purpose, as I have already said, is to mitigate the impact of the crisis, as well as the impact on employment or job conservation. The main measure is to subsidise part-time work for businesses. Today's facts, not miracles, are the fight against the economic and financial crisis and the preservation of jobs. The goal has to be higher, and it's right that it's higher. I appreciate that if our goal was to maintain just a few thousand jobs and not to fulfil all that was entrusted to us, it would be kind of strange. Today, though, it is not fair, correct, and if there is any reservation to admit and to work together to see how to get to better times. I also know that it is extremely interesting when we call the balance in the accounting terminology and in the vocabulary of public finances, we can say another balance or say the balance of the balance. If I remember correctly, even in times of past governments, I don't remember ever hearing anyone accepting any correction, but it is true that each of us, each of us in the parliamentary groups, has the right to express our views in a free democratic Slovenia and also to name possible even financial statements or representations, plans, including with some other words, as it is usually. The Council of the European Union considers that the stimulus measures are timely and targeted because they focus on the worsening of the economic crisis, and, of course, as we have already said many times today, both the coalition and the opposition are temporary and show readiness for the times in which we are. However, what I think is right to repeat is that Slovenia could also be better prepared for recession. Today I have somehow felt in the debate of some colleagues, and I understand the distress of some who in the past were not used to acting in the opposition, somehow the decision was such that they were always in the coalition. This is sometimes the case with the fact that it may be difficult to be reconciled with the opposition. And of course, then it will be difficult to say a laudable word to the current government, difficult to commend the coalition. It has also been said that everything that is now being done will also be what the next generations will have for them - if I understand it, at least that's how I imagined the words of some - that this crisis will be felt by future generations. I don't know if it was meant for this rebalancing of the balance, but to somehow seal the fate of the next generation. I don't believe that's true. I cannot forget myself, I have already said several times here in the National Assembly, I will also repeat today, on 7 November 2008, so last year, we all sat here and each of us had the opportunity to discuss the confidence, the approval of the new Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. I remember also focusing in the debate on the area where I come from, and somehow also mentioning the distress experienced by our people. At the time, there were 250 seams left of the company Betty Metlik out of work. One of his colleagues, as a specialist in the economic field, expressed himself and somehow said, "What kind of crisis?Oh, my God! What kind of crisis?!" And so on, that I wouldn't possibly repeat the words wrong, and someone would have felt that I hurt someone. That wouldn't have been my purpose. I know that the debate was that there was no crisis, there was no low economic growth, there was no recession. I was here almost the only one who wondered the fact that the times of the severe economic crisis were coming. But I can see, but I didn't know that obviously I still see it well, if not, with my glasses, that's true. In January, my colleagues also began to resent the functioning of this government. I couldn't believe it, but "it's not true, it is," and it was. This government, this Prime Minister, was the main one responsible for: the decline in economic growth was first, then it was a recession, and now it is a crisis and so on. We are sinking and sinking, and so on some have declared. Of course, the balance of the budget, we probably know what the balance of the budget also means in the local community. The balance of the budget is also a finding whether it is the National Assembly or the City Council or whatever changes are made in the budget itself, to adjust to the circumstances or to the current situation. Here, too, in the balance sheet, we adapt to these situations. And if we're in a coalition, we're probably advocating a rebalancing of the balance, some in the opposition, some more, some less, we're criticising. I trust my colleagues that it is sometimes pleasant to be in the opposition, because the responsibility for work or even for some, sometimes even insulting statements, may be somewhat smaller or at least not the same. Of course, I particularly like the fact that we discussed this at the Committee on Finance's meeting the day before yesterday, which is likely to be a debate later, it is now a general one to be taken from the item where the funds were allocated to Revoz. It wouldn't be necessary there, but it would go elsewhere and so on. However, I was delighted by the news that the Government had taken a decision at the last meeting to listen to Revos from New City and through State aid to enable the company to develop further. However, it seems important to me, as we have seen several times in today's day, not only will jobs, jobs and jobs continue to increase. I think it's an important positive impulse. As the President has said today, the biggest opposition party will also see the end of the economic crisis in the coming year, which is expected to be the next year, when economic growth will continue to be low, when unemployment will still be firmly rooted and heating will be relatively painful and painful. I also believe that this is likely to be the case, but there is nothing; we are here together, I say many times, on the same wagon and I believe that we will drive safely on this wagon as well. Regardless of further discussions today and also of the amendments to be discussed later, the balance of the balance or, as one of the colleagues of the crisis balance said: in times of economic and financial crisis, it is necessary to say bob, to go forward, to confirm the issue and also to monitor closely, to monitor all ministries and the work of the Government, and to act if necessary. Also at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, what I and my opposition colleague agreed was that it was better to have as current, fresh data as possible. In the fall time or when data 1 to 9 or data 1 to 10 are available, everything that has been done this year in the work of this government will be visible. The public, too, are watching and listening. Some people sometimes tell me how you can handle it and listen to all the clues that a lot of you are not even guilty of. But in the last six months, this government alone cannot be responsible for all the negative effects of the recession that plagues us. Let us admit that we are here together, all on the same level, and that it is a shame now to say not the most positive words, repeatedly even building and criticizing the President of the Government and the Government that he is not doing well, that there are no results. I also agree that it is not easy to rule in times of economic and financial crisis. However, I believe that even those who are most at risk today certainly know why. I am confident that, with regard to the assistance received from €80 to €200 to the most socially vulnerable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, they will only have the real sense that the Government is a party of the Social Democrats and other coalition parties with great awareness that people need help or that people need the most assistance at a given time who may not even bother are silent, but they are not easy. Therefore, I am really pleased with this important action. I believe that both the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry, together with the whole Government and all the competent ministries, are working well at a given time and that they are thinking positively and people, I know, but above all to all those who accompany us, they are giving us the hope that we will be serious, that we will think a little more wisely and make decisions, but that we are not here making decisions and talking the way the opposition colleagues have said in some discussions: everything the coalition decides is not right, everything the opposition proposes is not right. It's not like that. I have repeatedly asked some who have been in the National Assembly for a long time how they have been in the past term. Even some of the magnetograms I was able to read what the debate of some of my colleagues was like at the moment, who are very critical of what was going on in the previous term. And I accepted the important fact that some of the same colleagues, even when they were in the coalition, were critical. I have found that it is probably in the character of people, that they are mostly used to being more critical, because at the time, they said they criticized the work of the past government and so on. But my opinion is, so today I dress in green, let's watch calmly and positively, accept the balance and continue to work successfully. Maybe we'll have a holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Mr. Jerovšek, you can't have a replica. [[...]] No, you can't have a replica, you really can't, but you can discuss it later. So far, Mr. Mag has the floor. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have also asked myself many times, today and yesterday, how easy it is to hold this and listen to such diverse debates and debates. I'd rather do something different than listen to it. I'm an engineer myself, and I'd rather touch on the specifics that I promised in my opening address, so the numbers that I didn't want to say in the front, and this time I'll be backing them up. Indeed, my opinion is that I have made this clear several times before that the public administration should share the fate of events in the Slovenian economy. According to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian People's Party, this is simply not shown through this budget and otherwise I cannot say as the figures show. And then I'm going to put them on, and then I'm going to ask you to deny me, to correct me, and if that's not true, of course I'll be happy to apologize, and I'll be glad that it is. We are talking about the item Expenditure on goods and services, where the budget, prepared by the previous government, provided for 961 million, was slightly over 961 million. With the first rebalancing, we reduced this item by 25 million, slightly more than 25 million, with this second rebalancing we reduced by an additional slightly more than 55 million, a total of 80 and a half million euros, and stopped at 878 million, so we reduced 'public consumption' by 8.37%. I myself said, in dealing with the first rebalancing, that the ability to lower this item without any major shocks by 10%, and that made me harshly criticized. So, at first glance, the numbers are fine, they'd be good. The problem is that there is also an item in this item providing weapons and infrastructure capacity, where we have reduced the first balance by more than 56 million and the second by more than 31; total by 87 million. This means that if we have reduced the sum by 80 million and within each item by 87 million, it means that some others have had to raise their items, otherwise simply math plus minus does not work out. It follows that we will press on the Ministry of Defence, which had to tighten its budget to the end and to the end of the place, and thus we have ended our savings. And we are happy because we have 8.37% reduced item Expenditure on goods and services. In doing so, we well know that some items and some budget consumers have joyfully raised this item. That's one thing I'd like to point out. The second, which I have mentioned in part in my question to the President of the Government, confirms in fact what I am saying all the time. It seems unacceptable to me that those budget consumers who have no connection should simply not increase their budget compared to the budget allocated to them from the previous government. Indeed, that budget has been made in completely different circumstances, under different conditions, at a time of conjunction, optimism and so on, and there is absolutely no reason that today, in other circumstances, when we are losing jobs daily, some budget consumers get a higher budget than the previous one. And I'll give you some examples. Of the non-governmental budgetary consumers: Commission to prevent corruption, increase by 94%, I repeat, I compare the budget prepared by the previous government and this budget, i.e. the second balance, with both the balance of course. 94% increase! And I will say, okay, I would take that in view of the fact that the debates on the Anti-Corruption Commission were very rich and might even have been "buyed". The Ombudsman - plus 16. Constitutional Court - plus 15. Slovenian Academy of Science and Art - plus 9.6. State Council - 2.8. Court of Auditors - 0.5. Information officer - 0.35 and then come those who have also reduced. The winner of the cabinet of the Prime Minister with 19% minus and the President of the Republic of Slovenia with 5.29 minus. Government budget consumers, there's nothing much better. The winner is, for example, a protocol of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a minus 14%. Government Communications Office - minus 2. Nationality Office - minus 0.39, and then those with higher budgets come. Office for Equal Opportunities 0.55. Administrative Service Group, Protocol Brdo - 3,15. The Secretary-General of the Government - 5,29, in that it is necessary to say that this is a substantial sum, for a substantial increase, of EUR 700,000. With the first rebalancing, the budget has risen by a million euros, so far we are reducing it by about 300,000. This means still 700 000 euros more than the budget of the former Secretary-General. Office of the Government for Religious Communities - 5,30, Office for the Protection of Secret Data - plus 15,22, Customs Administration - plus 8,56, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering - plus 11,33. Please! How can you say that this is a savings budget? How can you say that? Please, please, please, take the budget, check the numbers and please, please, demantling me. I compared, once again, the budget drawn up by the previous government, and this second balance, of course, to the two rebalancings. I'm asking you very nicely to check and deny me. So, of course, I cannot support this balance because I simply cannot agree with such a policy. So we're wasting something we don't have, and obviously for the wrong reasons, and that doesn't happen in normal households, except in normal countries. I think that everyone in the state administration should share the fate of the economy - to reduce public spending. I know it hurts, but it just has to be done, if we don't want it or not. Otherwise, of course, it'll be hard. And it would be responsible for the government to strain all the muscles to do so as soon as possible, thereby reducing the deficit. Today, to boast that we have increased that item and one third to the other, and this item has nothing to do with the fight against the financial and economic crisis, with 1.8 billion deficits, I think it's a little too much. And I'd expect a little more responsibility here. Once again, I would like to stress and commend the Ministry of Public Administration, which, in the first rebalancing, reduced its budget by 45 million euros and now in the second rebalancing, by almost 5 million euros; and indeed, what the Minister said is, 2 and a half million at the expense of the administration's information and 2.4 million euros at the provision of spatial and other conditions. So, the minister acts like she behaves in normal families, where when she starts squawking, you start cutting up individual costs. And that's more than the Minister has obviously done very well. While this is not true for many other ministers, it is not. And if I walk through the ministries and then I'll finish, 9 are those that have higher budgets compared to the budget prepared by the previous government. Among them are those who have no connection to the financial economic crisis, and only 6 are such ministries, and I will now highlight them: Public administration - minus 25, defence - minus 12, transport - minus 9,8, health - minus 5,15, justice - minus 2,39 and agriculture - minus 0.12. These are ministries that have reduced budgets, all the others have higher budgets. And you will probably agree that among those I have not mentioned this time are ministries that have no connection to the financial and economic crisis, and it is irresponsible that they have higher budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u52	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Finance in absentia, respected by all ministers and all ministers in absentia! Clearly, addressing this balance is an unnecessary burden for this government. We wanted this government to deal with this rebalancing. At the Finance Committee, we suggested that this attempt should not be made in another. We have already witnessed in the National Assembly and have lost tremendous time with the rebalancing one March of this year. Since this rebalancing, which we are dealing with today, is built on similar flawed or unrealistic assumptions such as the one-March rebalancing, and has even been publicly recognised by one of the ministers that there will be a need for a rebalancing of three, we have proposed that we do not do this and that we simply skip this phase. And to take advantage of this time for the good things and good ideas that can be heard in this debate to be realized in the balance that we should actually accept already March of this year. Anyway, the rebalancing is here today in front of us in the National Assembly. We have heard that one of the obstacles that could be more ambitious than we all expect is that the legacy or what this government took last year is not as bad or that the starting points are not what they would expect after the years of "fat cows". It was said that the basics were such, or that some reforms that would facilitate the preparation of a more ambitious budget and a rebalancing in times of crisis had not been exploited. It is therefore right to remember a few months ago, not so far back, that we remember December last year when the European Commission and our Umar announced Slovenia, as one of the few countries in the euro area, 0.6% of the point of positive economic growth, as opposed to many other countries, where a forecast of 3 to 5% of negative economic growth was made last December. At that time, the government, this new government, adopted at its meeting on 24 December a level of debt for 2009 amounting to around €800 million, which, see, was adjusted to €5 billion or €4 billion,900 million on 23 April. All of this shows that this government also knew that the circumstances of the assumptions available at the time when these countries took over the exercise were such that it was possible, through appropriate policies, to create decisions that would lead Slovenia, as one of the few countries, through the economic crisis with the least possible cracks. Because it's not about opposition and position. This country is not the property of the position or opposition. We're all responsible - one and the other. A position a little more than the opposition, and what remains after this rule, will be a problem for each and every one of us. This made the opposition aware of these responsibilities all the time, and therefore they were also proposed, all the time - practically from last year's elections on, the solutions that were good. We cannot say that they were not because many of them are now summarized, six months too late, in decisions coming from the Government to the National Assembly. That it was possible to create a different policy and that we did not have to witness such bad scenarios as we witnessed them with a rebalancing one and, as we have now witnessed them with a rebalancing two, there are also data on heritage. There has been a lot of talk, a harsh deception about the indebtedness of our country in the past, of budget surpluses or deficits. We know what the facts are saying. According to the national methodology, which is known to all, Slovenia recorded a budgetary surplus in 2007. Even in 2008. All I'm talking about is the state budget, just this cash register. According to the ESA 95 methodology, the budget surplus in 2007 was half a percent of GDP. In 2008, however, under this methodology, the deficit was the lowest, 0.9% of GDP, after 1995 when this methodology virtually started to apply. According to the ESA 95 methodology, the previous government averaged 2% lower annual deficits than the two previous governments. As early as the first year of operation of the previous government in 2005, the ESA 95 deficit was reduced by 0.6% compared to 2004. I would not repeat this information if, as at the time of the rebalancing of one, March of this year, we did not hear statements from members of the coalition talking about the terrible indebtedness of our country last year, the terrible deficit, the terrible bad starting points. This is why, unfortunately, we also have to listen to the other side of the medal. I don't think this is necessary because the numbers are published, they are public, clear, accessible to everyone, and it would be better for us to spend this time here or which is strictly measured on what would be a good idea to do for the future. The former government reduced the debt of the country's wider sector from 27.2% of GDP in 2004 to 22.8% of GDP in 2008. As far as debt is concerned, I think the facts are clear and well-known to all. It is normal that the indebtedness of the population and the economic sector increased during the years of the merger. We also drew attention to the possible negative effects of these processes when we were alerted by the Bank of Slovenia in the ruling coalition. We know that this is not the responsibility of the government, not of the previous government, not of this government, but of the Bank of Slovenia. However, the situation was favourable and this debt actually increased. However, only 9% of this total debt to which the country contributed is in total. So we had a low level of debt last year. By the way. The liquidity of the state budget, which some of you have been talking about, is at 300 million a year. I said earlier: last December, on 24th last year, the current government estimated that in 2009 it would have to repay a poor billion euros, on 23 April, three months later, this correction was fixed to a poor 5 billion euros. This comes, among other things, from the reply to the question I have asked Minister Križanič, and these facts are also verifiable, so I do not think. We had a low unemployment rate. A comprehensive tax reform has been carried out that has burdened both the economy and the population, which means that, last year, the foundations were set for a more decisive fight against the coming economic crisis, on which the European Commission's assessment of December was based by 0.6% of economic growth this year. Why this estimate has deteriorated to minus 4.5% in the last three months and we are now hearing a 9% minus; in short, we are falling significantly faster than the average of the European Union, and we were growing at least 3% faster than the average of the European Union - because there were no measures. When there is a crisis, not only do measures need to be taken, but there is also a need for rapid response. I have already said several times, if it were not for the rapid response of the previous Prime Minister and Minister of Finance on the security of bank deposits on 8 October, be sure that at least one Slovenian bank would end up in bankruptcy, which would make our situation significantly worse. It is therefore incomprehensible, to some extent, that the current power of solutions, which were well-intentioned and would help speed up the investment cycle on the one hand, which is all the more important in this situation and what we will consider tomorrow, one of the laws which is six, seven months late, and, on the other hand, allow for a more active budget to be filled at a time when the debt is due. We all agree that in these times without an obligation and without a shortage of this situation cannot be exceeded. However, it is important that we do what we do, for one day these funds will have to be repaired or recovered. And if we owe ourselves as is now foreseen in Balance 2, for what we're going to eat and not for the grounds on which we're going to create, then every simple man, farmer, if you want, is clear that this account will not work. Because the figures in Rebalance 2 are talking about almost a billion smaller revenues, forecasts in this balance of €2 - 7 billion 920 million are declining, with realisation in the first half of the year being only €3 billion. 3 billion in the first half -- where is the estimate that there will be 4 billion in the second half, with these negative assumptions that we are witnessing to today? I think this evaluation is unrealistic, too. It is said that revenue will be lower than now with Balance 2. On the other hand, we have an estimate that we will get more than €800 million from the European Union, which could be achieved, but unfortunately operational policies are not properly managed. They're too slow. Compared to last year, there are no tenders at all in many segments this year. And look, even realisation in the first half of the year is saying it's good. It is 28.5% index, and the European Union funds were realised by 28.5% in the first half of the year. EU payments are over 50.52.5%. So here is this gap that we can make up for by the end of the year, but operational policies need to be changed and it is high time that we are in the second half of July. On the other hand, due to this smaller activity, a substantial reduction in VAT revenues is foreseen, which is also expected to be realised. I firmly believe that unfortunately we will be facing a rebalance 3 in the autumn, where this breakthrough will be even greater. And now, if we're talking about 1.2 billion deficits in three months, so we're talking about 1.85 billion deficits, we're talking about that in ZIPR they're increasing debt from 2 billion 300 to 3 billion 300 million euros, and, look, this is your report, you're in the first half of the year to 30. 6. implemented €3 billion of €473 million 489 000 791 in debt, and on 23 April you adopted €4 billion 962 million in the government's operational debt programme. These are actually scary numbers. The threatening numbers that, while allowing the country to function for a short period of time, prevent normal basic development policies from being put in place for a longer period. As a result, a number of measures have been proposed, including some laws that would, on the one hand, relieve business entities of unnecessary activities and allow them to function normally without unnecessary red tape by releasing a so-called credit crunch, which is still a fundamental problem of lower economic growth in that country. And on the other hand, the law was proposed on 22 May this year, as part of this comprehensive package, which is supposed to encourage private consumption, which is what you are now doing with this law on the guarantee scheme for natural persons, which we will deal with tomorrow. I'm afraid I must say that I'm really afraid that the effects of this law will not be the way the proposalr imagines. Because there are too many administrative barriers that should allow operational use. In these matters, things must be simple so that they can be quick and effective. And if we have some potential on the market, which can be relaxed by allowing people to consume it, it also has a significant impact on the reduction of the housing deficit - I do not see why this would not be done. And one of these measures, which should also result in these figures in the state budget balance, is this fact. That the tax reform carried out by the previous government was a mistake, it would be difficult to convince me. I also asked the Minister's Committee on Finance if he advocated previous solutions, and it is, thank God, that he did not and that he did not intend to return to the previous situation and that he did not intend to reintroduce the tax on the paid salary. At first, I must say, I was almost afraid that he would say yes, because he said that this was not the wrong decision, that it was the right decision, because the tax burden was on one side of the economy, and on the other hand the population was burdened. In these circumstances, however, this is crucial if economic activity is to be accelerated. If these burdens were what they were four, five years ago, be sure - not because I am saying this, that is what all those who have been dealing with the economy a little longer - that Slovenia would now be in a significantly worse situation and would have significantly greater problems than it has. And we know what happened: the tax on the so-called paid salary was abolished, gradually, of course, they were reduced rates of corporate tax. All of this has also been assessed by the OECD with the highest assessment and the European Commission has also made such an assessment with regard to tax reform. So to say that Slovenia has not implemented the necessary reforms in the past, which would allow it to now be easier to cope with these times of crisis, is unfair, not true, not true. I think it would be wiser to act in such a way as to make use of these positive effects for what needs to be done in these circumstances. Some from the government and the government coalition said it was a technical rebalancing, I'm talking about this two-way rebalancing, the other two said it was a development-oriented rebalancing. Now that I don't offend anyone, I'd say if I wrapped it in a package, that it's a technical rebalancing, but it's a development-oriented one, with the investment work being reduced by over 100 million euros. Now, how this goes together, I don't know and I don't know how to imagine; but the fact is that this balance is far from being developmental. This is a rebalancing of spending from hand to mouth, or of spending what future generations will create, so that we can survive this year and next year. While there is no clear answer, how and from which source these funds will be recovered. At 1.85 billion deficits to a 5 billion debt, at a drop of more than 400 million dollars per year, with less than a third of the realisation of European funds as planned in the first half of this year, I think these claims hold, and look, I would ask myself: Quo vadis, the government. Maybe I'd end up with a little more simple thought than I heard from my colleagues today, and it's written above the urinal in the government palace and it says, "You're the only one in this building right now who knows exactly what he's doing." I'm afraid that's not the case, because we're obviously going to witness the third rebalancing in the fall, but by then it's going to be three to four months before it can be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss general work? Yeah. I'm opening the application. Please sign in. First, I give the floor to Mrs Kamnar, who has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to respond to two things from Mr Chernač. No one in today's presentation by the Government said that the change in the tax system in the previous mandate was a mistake. It was mentioned that the changes in the tax system resulted in a reduction in fiscal capacity, and this is a fact. And this reduction in the tax resources we face this year is not only the result of lower economic activity or economic crisis, but also a reduction in fiscal capacity. This was not a definition in terms of weakness, but that on the other hand the expenditure side has not been adjusted; and this is a fact. Since high economic growth, despite lower tax burdens, has provided sufficient resources to maintain a high level of budgetary expenditure and, therefore, at this point, it has been impossible for a short period of time, given the unaltered legislation that defines three quarters of budget expenditure, to change and reduce budgetary expenditure so much in order to balance with a lower budget deficit. If we listen to today's debate, there are some segments of the budget expenditure that we have foreseen that there are not enough resources. I'm stressing again. The use of European funds is not decreasing, but is increasing by 200 per cent and a few per cent compared to the 2008 realisation. This is evident from the general budget balance. There has been a lot of talk about the debt and the extreme debt we are creating with this balance. We are aware that the scope of this year's debt is extreme. However, not only because of the servicing of the public budget obligations, but also because of the financing of certain measures in the area of the financial system resulting from laws that you have decided or have already decided at the end of the previous year. In 2009, the budget will be 26.4% and the interest will be 0.87% of the gross domestic product. Interest on this debt will increase in the coming year and if we do nothing, then there is a risk that the debt will increase dramatically in the coming years. That is why we have now joined the fundamental changes in the system in order to prevent this, and that is what you will have before you in the autumn in the form of two budgets for the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u55	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Look, Mrs Kamnareva, you said that the use of European funds is not shrinking, but is increasing according to the previous year. Today we are dealing with Balance 2, we have the "accept the Balance" section, this is yours, March this year, we have changes and we have what you are proposing now. That's what we're talking about. And in view of this, European funds are also falling by a few 10 million euros, but this is not essential. It is normal to increase according to the previous year, as it would be wrong to decrease, given that the previous year was the first year of implementation of the new financial perspective. I was talking about something else. I was talking about this year's realisation, which is problematic, well-intentioned, that you will do something to catch the numbers you are proposing by the end of the year. I wanted to remind you that if the realisation is in the middle of the year 28% and if there are no calls, it will be very difficult by the end of the year this realization will be 100%. With regard to an obligation that is conditional on certain obligations which were adopted last year. At the time when these commitments were adopted, funds were also provided. You've taken them together with Balance 1 and you've taken all these commitments and accepted them for your own. And not now tell back stories that don't have coverage in the content. What are we talking about to make ourselves clear? We are talking about food, where we are talking about a few 10 million euros, we are talking about kindergartens, where it is even smaller, and we are talking about that number, which is important, which is the salaries of public servants, where it was, of course, necessary to make an adjustment in view of the changed situation, to initiate the appropriate procedures that you have also set in motion. However, these are things that do not exceed 10% of the projected deficit. They do not exceed €180 million. We are talking about €850 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand the 2009 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia, as Verbinc also explained in the dictionary of foreigners on page 600, where he explains what the balance is: "Rebalance is correction, balance." So something that has to be coordinated in some way. In the free language, we also use the balance several times as some balance up and rebalance as a balance down. And in view of all these things, I also understand this budget rebalancing. This is not a developmental rebalancing because the balance is very difficult to develop is more technical in nature, because the revenue and expenditure must be harmonised in this case. I hope that we will also be able to reconcile them, accept them, but in the light of the facts they are. On the Committee on Finance, I said, there is no need to change, the numbers show how much money there is and how much money is coming and how much we know what costs we have. I doubt that anyone among us is satisfied that we must today accept such a balance sheet that we adopted in March of this year. Unfortunately, the economic situation with us and the world is such that the revenues that were planned both at the time of the adoption of the 2007 budget adopted by the previous government and at the time of the adoption of the first balance are no longer sustainable. It is true that the 2009 budget was adopted in 2007 with completely different macroeconomic assumptions. To remind you of some, perhaps three of the most important: inflation for 2007 was projected at 3.4% and reached 3.6. For 2008, 3.5% were planned and reached 5.7 - among the highest in the European Union. Growth for 2007 was planned at 5.8%, reaching 6.5% - among the highest in the European Union. For 2008, it was planned at 4.6% and reached 4.1%. Employment growth rate 2007 - 2.3% achieved in three and 0.9% achieved in 2008 2.8%. These were favourable macroeconomic results, and we would also like them today if, of course, the global economic situation were not slightly different. But unfortunately, in the face of such macroeconomic forecasts, the previous government had planned a 2009 budget of poor 9 billion euros and expenditure of good 9.1 billion, despite favourable macroeconomic indicators for good 125 million euro deficits. Was that necessary, I wonder now! Probably not. We could at least align this with some austerity measures on many things and it would be 0 or, of course, plus for maybe some other worse time. In the wake of the high projected economic growth, funding for the budget was also planned with a debt of EUR 868 million. At the time of the budget, the former government has also adopted laws imposing on the State to provide additional funds of EUR 247 million for various programmes, such as free kindergartens for another child, student food subsidies, the elimination of wage imbalances, while reducing revenues of EUR 467 million due to the abolition of the salary tax, the rise in tax relief, various investment reliefs and a reduction in the rate of profit, which have their financial implications in 2009 and beyond. Together, the net financial impact is actually minus 715 million. 715 million is an obligation, which, in any event, appears and should be adopted in the balance sheet, or in the first or second, of this budget, taking into account that they would be exactly the same indicators and that economic growth and income would follow predictions that were actually made in 2006. Thus, the 2009 budget adopted by the previous government and thus praised by the current opposition was minus 900 million, including a debt of 868 million at the time of the adoption of the legal obligations and planned and good macroeconomic outcomes. Without the debt, I'd be even more indebted. I am not talking about the minus that was created in 2008 and we will only be able to comment when the government submits the final invoice for 2008 to the National Assembly. I'm afraid this closing account will also show a certain minus. Therefore, the 2009 budget adopted was not ideal, it had a planned deficit despite good macroeconomic indicators when it came to it. The government of that country, which planned the 2009 budget, was in no way cost-effective and did not foresee the possibility of years appearing that would not be as favourable as in 2006, 2007, 2008. She thought she was gonna keep running like that all the time. Even in previous years, it has not been much better, which is why I am surprised by the current concern of former Minister Visiak at the adoption of the current budget crisis balance for the future generation of Slovenians. Where was his concern when he was in the government and the final accounts were as follows: an exceptional increase in external debt - we have already talked about this today, as a result of high economic growth. Economic growth at the beginning of 2005 was based on increased indebtedness. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt in 2007 was a good EUR 10 billion, which means that 6% of GDP growth was based on unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased by EUR 15.3 billion on the 31st day in the previous government's mandate. 12. 2004 to EUR 39.8 billion per day 30. 9. 2008 It is said that in the entire mandate of the Janša government, Slovenia has committed itself abroad for almost the same amount as Slovenia owed from independence until the end of 2004. And we've heard that before today. One of the discussers talked about it. He was talking about the possibility of developing that people were in debt. True, but this development has had an increased economic growth, and today, unfortunately, it is no longer. And the state of public finances: despite high economic growth in 2006-2007, the improvement in the state-wide state-of-the-art sector according to ESA 95 methodology is minimal. In 2006, despite high economic growth, the deficit still accounts for 1.2% of GDP and in 2007 the surplus was 0.5% of GDP due to higher revenues, higher corporate taxation, higher inflation and extra-budgetary financing of Darsa. This is also questionable, since the Court of Auditors finds that it is not properly evaluated. It is well known that an SDS Member was blackmailed that, as we adopted the final account in 2007. What's in the final account for 2008 and we don't know yet. Janša's government has significantly deteriorated the long-term sustainability of public finances, the movement of finance, debt, tax reform, but not only the bad ones, we are talking about the situation we are in today, and the consequences that some decisions have had on finance in 2009. Many financial experts have already pointed out the problem of the government's public financial policy, Janez Janša, in 2007. Those words have already been said today. Let us recall the statement made by the macroeconomicist Dr. Moymir Dark, who has been told many times, sometimes it is also worth repeating several times. The statement or its warnings were extremely important in 2007 but unfortunately overheared. He stated that, during the period called "fat cows", Slovenia was not able to relatively reduce budgetary spending and consequently budget deficits, as it was exposed to increased public financial risks during the period of so-called dry cows, when faced with a low level of economic growth. And that, unfortunately, is happening today. On the Committee on Finance, someone said how much we gave the baby with a cradle, when we took power, or how much he has now, he could have had much more, or that minus would have been much smaller if we had somewhere to take him. Under what circumstances are we today accepting this second budget rebalancing? Inflation is close to zero. For us consumers, it is good because prices are not rising. But in terms of the economy, this means a crisis, because prices are not falling in terms of the market economy, where the price is placed by supply and demand, but by the crisis of survival, as companies are also selling below the production price. This, in the long run, means the collapse of such production, and today we are also witnesses to it. Economic growth has a negative sign. Four - five - possibly even more percentage drop is planned. It's hard to predict that they won't go down any further. Well, the problem could be even bigger. All note that exceptional economic growth in 2006, 2007, 2008 was unrealistic, based on increased debt and on investments in construction, which today cannot sell their products, dwellings, business premises and simply pay off their credits. Another cause of the decline in economic growth is the export-oriented economy, which is entirely dependent on European and global markets. Unemployment is very close to 90,000, and the real danger is to outnumber 100,000 unemployed in 2009 or at the beginning of 2010. So it's not a real employment policy, it's not growing. However, data on the unemployed could be even higher if this government did not take some successful measures that have reduced unemployment, notably through financial incentives, with subsidies that help the economy overcome this crisis. If the first budget rebalancing for 2009 was a partial restructuring of the budget and an increase in investments in certain sectors and, in part, an increase in social transfers, the current balance really means balancing income and expenditure with the actual situation. And that is why we are not satisfied with the balance that increases the deficit and limits investment, but the reality is, unfortunately, that. If I return to Dr. Dark's statements, major structural changes cannot be made quickly and therefore it takes time. Unfortunately, these changes will have to be made now that the public financial situation is much more complex. However, I hope that part of these changes will already appear in the budget to be drawn up by this government for 2010 and 2011, which will in fact be the first budget of this government. Unfortunately, all ministries had to reduce their programmes. There is no problem of reducing material costs and some unnecessary, perhaps a few reserves have been left from earlier times. However, it is worrisome when investment expenditure, which also means development, is being reduced. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, representatives of the Government assured us that no investments that are under way or can be realised this year have been eliminated. That's good. In doing so, the government has really looked at all the investments and at the same time ensured that the European Union's funds will also be spent. The data that we already have a positive balance with the European Union in June 2009 and that we are no longer a net payer in the EU, but we get more money in Slovenia is good. Unfortunately, this has not happened in years of higher economic growth. It is true, however, that some of the projects already planned in the budget by the previous government are no longer covered. And why? Because there are no projects because they cannot be implemented in the period until the end of 2009. And who's responsible for that? Certainly the one who planned the budget item in 2007 and did not carry out all the procedures. This is certainly not the current government, which should only implement the project and the previous government should prepare it, from the location plans, projects, calls and so on. The importance of this rebalancing is its social orientation and the provision of funds for social transfers, so that people who are entitled to it will not be harmed. This is particularly reflected in the measures taken by the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. In fact, this is reflected in the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and in part also in the Ministry of the Economy. Only in the field of active employment policy, this government in the rebalancing sector increases funds by 76 million to 320 million euros or almost four times as much as the previous government had planned in this segment. That's understandable. The crisis is much greater and there is a need to provide additional funds on these matters. In addition, funds amounting to 125 million are provided for the sustainability of the pension fund and thus ensure the smooth payment of pensions. Promoting the economy and the development of entrepreneurship was earmarked in the 2009 budget for 45 million and 147 million euros in the balance sheet. So for 100 million more. Research and development funds are also substantially increasing. Therefore, this rebalancing has maintained its social orientation in all its restrictive needs and ensures that funds for intervention in the area of economic restructuring and development. On the contrary, it increases them! A total of 27 amendments are applied to the technical balance. The amendments open up an important area and also some of the systemic errors adopted by the National Assembly in its previous composition. I mean the community funding system. The amendment cannot simply solve these problems. This is a more complex problem and must be solved for Ljubljana and all the municipalities and probably also for the municipalities. Ambassador Villa Trofenik very clearly pointed out these problems at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, which will not be so easy to resolve. The government has committed itself to trying to resolve some of these problems when the 2010 and 2011 budget is adopted, and I believe this promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Thank you. Here you go, replica. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Allow me a replica. First time. Many things have been said here by Ambassador Čepič, including to us personally and to my position as Minister in the previous term. I would like to point out that they should stop this practice, that the first two years of government will plead against the previous government, which is to blame, for the last two years, probably, for the coalition and, of course, they will not be guilty in the end. Look. A lot of untruths have been said. First time. The question was what was done in the previous term. In the previous mandate, Slovenia recorded a gross domestic product and growth rate of 3% higher than the average of the European Union, reducing the development balance for Europe and the European average. So we arrived in 2008 at 90% of the European average, but we started there with 75%. So this is a very important developmental shift that has been achieved under the previous government. It is very important that we have stabilised public finances since we have created a public financial surplus for the first time. It's not true what you said about increasing the share of public debt in gross domestic product, it's not true! It's been shrinking, and it's essential. Indeed, the public debt in gross domestic product in 2004 when we took over was 27.5%, at the end of the 2008 mandate 22.8%. So the public debt has fallen. It is true that some of the state's debts have increased, for example, by companies such as Darsa. But once again, building highways is an important project for the development of this country and let one tell me who it is that this is not done and not done that way. Here we can argue a lot about how to finance the construction of motorways: either from the budget or with how much of the budget and how much of the debt. However, public debt decreased as a percentage of gross domestic product. But you managed to increase it with this rebalance by, read and write, almost 10% of the points measured in the gross domestic product. So 22 to about 32. You did it in six months. What you're going to produce in these four years, God help us. One more thing. With the reduction of public finances and the increase or maintenance of public finances, for the first time so far, we have managed to close the scissors to the extent that we have created a public financial surplus in 2007. And please, Mr Čepič, do not repeat the lie and deceive this Slovenian public that someone has done too little to make Slovenia even more destructive.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Mr. Vizjak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Much has been done, and if we continued to listen and listen to us a little, we probably would not be in this situation today. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. In the opening presentation, Minister Križanič said that the balance was in fact a key counter-crisis act. Whether that is true and, if that is true, then we can look on the government side that is proposing this act and find that, in fact, apart from the Minister and the two State Secretaries, there is none of the key representatives of the individual departments to defend this key anti-crisis act. Public administration, justice and finance, while none of the other departments. If this is indeed a key counter-crisis act, then it should probably not be a problem to confirm the agenda of this meeting, because there were 17 missing votes in the vote when the last vote was not adopted, up to 22 members of the coalition who were candidates or the Government is the proposer of this extraordinary meeting. And coalition MPs do not identify themselves with a key cover act of the coalition even enough to come forward to confirm the agenda. We're doing a lot of work today, especially with history. When I read the title of the point, it says: The 2009 proposal for the rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. The vast majority of members from the coalition, from the SD Group of Members and some of the few individuals from other parliamentary groups that have even discussed have dealt with history. It's like we're dealing with a rebalancing in 2005, a rebalancing in 2006, a rebalancing in 2007 or 2008! The foundations of all the discussions related to those years, however, we have before us the second balance of this government, the second balance of this coalition, and this is the balance with which the Government is correcting its balance with which it fixed all those items in the 2009 budget plan prepared by the previous government two, three months ago. She coordinated all the items in the way she thought they would last, and as she thought it was necessary. We, to be honest, objected to these corrections. The coalition, which was adopted two, three months ago, prepared and adopted completely in its image. And today we are correcting what you then accepted so vehemently. Look at the debates, look at the arguments why you accepted it, and see whether those discussions that you had at the time were justified or not by members of the coalition parties. Compare them with our discussions and you will see that you will first have to rebalance your statements, your arguments why you voted for this balance. Last year, when this global crisis began, Slovenia was assessed by all criteria as one of the best-prepared European countries to deal with this crisis, and according to analyses by the domestic independent analytics institution, Umarja, also after analysis by Banka Slovenije - much the same. This is how the European Commission assessed the OECD as one of the best-prepared European countries. I think it was listed there among the three who should not have any problems dealing with the financial crisis that was coming. Nor is it because the banking sector, at least after these statements we have heard and even after the Bank of Slovenia's claim, was not at risk of being exposed to contaminated investments; it was not exposed. Otherwise we got after a great deal of trouble information that one of the governors did obtain some quality securities from Lehmann Brother's, but he was not at risk. Today, however, we are adopting a budget balance with which you are providing 300 million euros to the banking sector. By mentioning earlier one of the members of the debate that the income from the economy to the banking sector or the credit balance for the economy is negative. This is said to result in banks withdrawing more loans from the economy than they put back into the economy. And about a month ago, the finance minister in public was talking about a credit crunch. That's not true! If the economy is forced to return more money to the banking sector than it gets back, then the spasm is exacerbated. If we have to provide additional resources to the banking sector through the state budget, something is seriously wrong. It is likely that those who should service the economy, the development of the economy, are not the ones who need to be made available to them. When it comes to collecting money from the economy even further over taxes, not only through a reduction of credits, when it comes to providing citizens' taxes money, in order to, secondly, pay via the budget, through the system, provide additional funds for the budget. Something in this system and in these explanations does not hold, and it would be right for the President of the Government, as the most responsible, as the proposer, and as the finance minister, to explain this thing in some way or a little more detail why it is necessary. There was a lot of talk earlier, even when you discussed history, about some of the measures taken by the previous government - probably because voters liked them. They didn't like the voters, but they needed them. You know, if one director who has 15,000 euros a month's salary belongs to a union hot meal, probably this warm meal belongs to a high school student under the same conditions as 8, 9, 10, 11 hours. Those who drive, maybe an hour longer. Is this measure necessary, necessary or not? If this belongs to a director who has 15,000 euros in salary; in addition to all additional ratings: insurance, cards, cars, treatments, medical examinations and other matters. There's no problem. He's here. And this measure, which was only partially corrected by some of those at all, costs about €32 million a year. On the decimal point, on the second decimal point, this number just pops up in the deficit that you're now showing -- if that's what this country can solve. On the second or third decimal, that's it, that's it. And when we discuss measures when we discuss the weight of measures, it would be right to structure them properly. Is the problem 300 million for servicing banks or 30 million for the healthy youth population? That these healthful ones may come to the National Assembly, just as some other youths have come to this situation and to this function. I think that these things need to be discussed in this way; where they are harder, where they are weights, how much weight they weigh and how much they bring. One student’s diet is a long - term measure. Because we're bringing him into a healthy life because we're prolonging his life, because we're reducing his disease stock because you take a lot into your youth, and you don't care if it comes out at the age of five and fifty or fifty. It doesn't matter because there are other things in the back. What I really miss about these matters are measures. I think that facing this crisis should consist of two parts of the measures; the development measures; and the social measures. And social measures are complementary measures, measures that help to overcome something, and those that are not covered by those active measures, development measures. We have taken these measures, which would prevent or enable people to gain some kind of active employment and not actively access to the status of institutions, we have not taken them, we have not received them. Even those proposed at the previous meeting, we voted on some of them yesterday, for example, as a measure to partially pay social contributions to self-employed people. That would be a measure! Five times cheaper than unemployment, five times less! The unemployment allowance is, for example, around EUR 500, the payment of social contributions or the work of social contributions does not exceed EUR 100. And those people who come from working companies, because they have problems, could also be self-employed in such measures. They have enough knowledge, they have enough handicrafting and craftsmanship - but don't support it. Nor do you support purely simple measures such as payments, administrative action, single-point payments, for example, at least contributions from wages. Nine contributions shall be paid from salary and salary, of which four contributions shall be those for which the commission is a bank, higher than the amount they indicate, and that for the average wage. With an average gross salary! Why should citizens be burdened with such measures or self-employed with such measures? I think it would be possible with a little goodwill to accept it. Now I wonder why there are no such measures. We have government teams in countries abroad, where measures have been taken quickly, effectively, and we also have our team dealing with each other. Instead of coping with the crisis, ministers face up to each other, to whom we will move some part of the department, to who will be able to get something extra, to whom telecommunications and so on. A number of ministers of this government are engaged in trying to provide a public image in every way, with the support of top Slovenian politicians, including the President of the Republic, even though there is suspicion that they are involved in certain activities. It is difficult for such people to expect that they will actively propose measures in this government and fight for our common good. It's hard to expect. They have a different interest: to use the function for other purposes. In fact, something in this area needs to be done first. One more thing is important and I would like to remind you of it. You know, drawing on European funds isn't just about making a budget line. I think about 90 or even more percent of European funds are earmarked for investments. If we do not plan to draw on European funds, we do not directly plan investments. If there's no investment, there's no development. In the previous term, if you remember a little bit back, we had a double-digit investment growth; 15%, 16% investment growth, and that was the measure that generated jobs behind us. This guy's been generating jobs. However, many of these investments were carried out by the economy, because the state did not fully implement them; we were dealing with investment infrastructures. And now there are no infrastructure investments, and that, I think, is a big problem. There would also be a lot to change in this area; a lot to change to be where we used to be when we met the Maastricht criteria when we were the best and first to receive the euro, and we were among those who were the best in meeting the Lisbon strategy. We even met the additional goal we set ourselves. This is said to be 3% better than the European environment. And we were! Today, we are 4% or 3% worse than the European environment because economic growth is so much lower. And this is directly falling behind, and it will be difficult for anyone in this country to convince me that the Poles or the Czechs were better prepared for this crisis than the typical country of the Eastern European bloc than Slovenia. There is no analysis for this, no institution has ever established it, no domestic or foreign, but they are doing business with the same environment and are better than we are. And I think that the responsible government should ask why countries like Poland and the Czech Republic, which are significantly lower on this scale with economic growth and also structural adaptability to employment with the European Union, are today better than we are. And in a very short time, in six months it happened. I think that the responsible government should do an analysis - not with the previous government, but with comparable governments, with Poland, with the Czech Republic and with the measures they have taken there. What we have taken as a coalition in the previous term has proved to be extremely good and effective, so that any social action that disturbs you today can then be taken. Today he talks and thinks only about cuts in the government coalition. I don't think this trend is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. We are still at the general part of the budget. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Look, respected colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, you have a big problem, namely, that you are constantly burdening yourself with the past government, with your past work, and you have no ideas, you have no solutions, and you are somehow blindly advocating solutions that you know for yourselves that they are not leading anywhere. It is right to point out once again here something that has been said in the National Assembly by the former Prime Minister, Mr Janša, when he handed over his mandate, and you try to fabricate that statement all the time. He did not say at the time that the crisis in Slovenia would not come, nor would the crisis in Slovenia be present in the financial market. He said very well that in Slovenia at the time there were not all those financial crises that were already present in America and in other countries, but not in our market at the time, and also in the field of the economy. He stressed, however, that Slovenia would not be immune to this too if we did not act in time. That's what he warned you about. And if we think back a little bit, the government, in leaving then, has drawn up quite a few laws that have already responded to the upcoming crisis in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the new government, the new coalition, in fact, rejected or refused to deal with all those laws, except for the fact that the state guaranteed bank deposits, which contributed greatly to the fact that none of our banks went bankrupt due to the mistrust of our savers to the banking system. But all the other laws that were proposed in good faith at that time were well - intentioned. This is not right, and it does not lead you anywhere to seek fault for your back, as a small child looking for a culprit, rather than to face problems that are present, especially to try to listen to those who want to help you. More than once it has been said: this is a crisis that concerns all of us; we must all come out of this crisis as winners. I think that's the only way we can be successful in the end. Many debaters today, especially from the coalition, have said as well as when dealing with the first rebalancing. There was beauty in saying, philosophy, and I believe that a lot of people don't even know what he was saying or what those pretty words mean. Mainly to increase investment in order to increase funds for active employment policy, to increase resources for science and development, to ensure that counter-crisis measures are prepared. Today we can hear this again for this rebalancing, and we can analyze from March to now what those measures or all of those solutions that you predicted at the time have brought today. Several companies have been bankrupt at this time, unemployment is record high, the economy is in great difficulty. In fact, look, there were no concrete positive movements. All that is mentioned at all times is that the main measure was subsidisation of working time. Look, this is a measure that is certainly one of those that can actually keep some jobs, but this is not a solution that will be successful in the long run. All those people who are waiting now, in fact, pray that in six months they will not be at work, do not think about restructuring themselves to try to find new opportunities. It's basically a cover-up at the expense of taxpayers. It's not a solution, at least not in the long run. And this is for the coalition and the saints, even for the government, one of the main achievements. Let me ask the economists what this means to them. Nothing. Except for rare exceptions that actually exploit this thing. There's a lot of abuse here, too, a lot! I have been surprised to see that we are in a situation like this since the adoption of the first balance and this balance-rebalancing, I can stress this again. I am afraid that this balance is also largely unrealistic on the income side, that the situation will be significantly worse, but we cannot help this balance. We can correct some things in the expenditure work where we can make certain transfers, but we will not, because all the amendments we tabled in the opposition will, of course, at least this is how you predicted, be slightly rejected; and those would not be a miracle solution, but would contribute quite a bit of this development cycle in certain areas. But, as I said, I'm afraid there won't be any effect on the revenue side or the numbers you listed here. A rebalance could not bring this, but perhaps the situation would be significantly better if, from December onwards, we were also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, a number of laws that had already been drawn up in the previous government mandate, otherwise in departure, but if the same government were still on the move, such laws would almost certainly be dealt with here and adopted, probably also modified - depending on the needs; but you have slightly rejected all of them, but you have not offered some new solutions that would, say, begin to improve the situation in Slovenia. Until there are some laws that will systematically try to resolve economic development, only the economy, economic development, the number of new jobs - this is the only way to get us out of this situation. Nothing else. Saving is also absolutely necessary here, but without new jobs, without new businesses we cannot get out of this situation. And such measures, such laws, unfortunately, are not. That is why I am surprised, and none of you believe it, neither from economists nor from people when you talk about some packages: the first savings package, the second, the third, the fourth - of all four measures are two or three laws, which have no effect yet. Even so, I cannot support such a rebalancing of the balance in any case, because I think this is also unrealistic, but I will continue to explain some of the additional points and illustrations on the specific numbers when we are also going to deal with certain amendments here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Mr President, I've applied to the replica. For I believe that I was challenged in Mr Tank's debate, not by a name, but he spoke of young people who came to Parliament; and without offense, I count myself among young people with all right. What I wanted to give, we had earlier heard a very poetic contribution to the student lunches. Remember that with the first rebalancing, we also keep it in this balance, we have covered financial obligations to realize the legal rights of Slovenian students. This also contains this balance. It also covers all those legally guaranteed rights of the population that guarantee that we guarantee at least a minimum social standard for all those groups affected today. And to compare this category, for example, with the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank clearly proves one misunderstanding of where the problems of this economic crisis are. You will recall that this crisis began when the chronic illiquidity of the economy arose. With the recapitalisation of both banks, we are aiming to improve this liquidity, as I said before, in order to improve the potential of these two state banks to acquire liquidity in the interbank market due to improved capital adequacy and, on the other hand, to allocate these liquidity to the economy. We have received a very good reminder in our parliamentary group, through which it is very clear which measures this country is further promoting. I suggest that the Social Democrats lend this reminder to the Slovenian Democratic Party, let's read these things, I think things are clear enough. What I would still say is: we certainly cannot be satisfied with everything, that time has caught us all unprepared, but listening to the debates that we can hear all day, how nothing has been done, how no action has worked, and this is, excuse me, very unobjective and only consistent with what your political purpose is - I fully agree. Let us criticise what does not work, propose new measures and I think that, as far as this is concerned, the Government has shown so far a substantial, substantial number of imaginations and new ideas as the Slovenian Democratic Party. If you want, we can repeat that lesson from the Committee on the Economy when the ministers of this government have literally trained you on what they would have achieved if your party's proposals for action were adopted in the National Assembly. Among other things, to invest large funds for a virtually very, very small macroeconomic impact. This will not bring this country out of the crisis. However, if you want another sentence, in this rebalancing we also maintain those positive policies that your government has initiated in order to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and improve the supporting entrepreneurial environment, and also in those that we do not believe have a monopoly on these ideas, the developmental orientation of this budget is reflected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's been six and a half hours since there's so many smart outbreaks and ideas, I think the professors in college would be more involved with the administration now, so the doctorates can write to everyone who's smart. I've listened as much as I can, I'm tired as all of you, but I don't understand, I really don't understand that you don't want to admit the truth that the whole world knew, the whole world knew 15 September 2008, the whole world for the crisis. Yes, on September 15, 2008, the current SDS Government was aware of the crisis, but the government, which is today, already knew more about the crisis. So you throw each other's diapers - be ashamed of each other. We all knew, and this was acknowledged by the Council, and this was recognised by the Presidents of all parliaments in the international parliamentary union. And I knew it was made by America because they were shopping with ours with what they didn't have. And the system had to collapse, and we all knew that. Today, after seven hours, throwing each other, who is, what is not, who will be guilty for two years, is the least, which is, shamelessly, to those who may be coming now, but are happy, from working at home, watching us or listening - despite that. We can be ashamed of those. And they think we're weird, incompetent. Look, the balance sheet of the budget isn't a savings rebalance, let's say it's the left side or the right side. The balance of the budget is a crisis balance that solves the current situation! Pika! And you know it, and you know it, and you know it! And do not throw yourself at one another, but seek that he is not saving, but that he is not saving. Crisis Rebalans, the government's offer, which has been elected by the people, this government has made this rebalancing, this rebalancing will be adopted today - it will be! And this government, which has designed and adopted it, will be responsible for the consequences - good and bad. And that's a fact. And let's stop talking nonsense here - the balance will be accepted, the consequences will be borne by the government that designed it, as good as the bad. Of course, most of the consequences will be borne by the Slovenian people. It's just like that. I would like to have something else in my garden, and you might like roses in your garden rather than vegetables. It's not working! It's not working. It is also not clear to me that funds on the economy are being reduced to increase with some users, for whom I personally estimate that they are not justified, but that is how the Government has prepared them. Rebalance means, we've heard the theory on page 600, but we don't have to read it, because we know the balance of something. And today we have a proposal from the Government that is responsible for what it has prepared. And we have to, we don't want or we don't want to confirm this because we don't have a bag of money, we don't have a bag to take it from. We don't. And even if we change the program, and we go from one garden to another, we're not gonna do anything. It's what it is. Let the government answer. The government presented it. Some ministries, as we have heard, for example, for public administration, are holding onto it, they are shrinking, and other ministries are getting rich. Or the case of the government office. Okay! If he has so many faces to say that his costs have increased by 5%, or I don't know how much, 700 000 euros, he should have a face, and he should look at us and the people and tell them what he's going to spend them for. For papers or for what? But we ask the police and the military to be effective, and in fact we take everything from them. We're not fair! We're not fair to ourselves. Some snore, others win. Okay, if they have any of this. But they will go to the doctor because they will become too fat, and the doctor will prescribe them medication to lose weight. That's the way it is in life. And Moore will suffer, and the mine will suffer, and some more production will suffer. But let's stop, let's see the amendments, let's help each other. Let's at least keep it where the pensioners are to earn it. If a man worked 40, 42, 45 years, don't steal from him - don't take him! If a person's whole life pays for health care - don't steal from him, don't take it from him! Let's let him see a doctor. Let us be honest and proper there! Now, whether the Ministry of Public Administration has a municipality or not, they won't have one. If they have it, they can have it, but that's where we can play. But let us leave those social rights guaranteed by Article 2 of the Constitution, colleagues and colleagues. And let's stop being smart and be a doctorate here and fool around. Everyone, the whole world knew about the crisis, September 15, 2008, with us at the helm. The former government knew. The current government, which took power, knew that it was already a crisis. And don't lie to each other. The Americans have made good use of it, the whole world is saving them, and they're not going to help us. Pyramid! We went out, took loans for that that we had - that I stress - bought shares and traded with them. The pyramid was fine. Now I'm rich! And on September 15th, that fortune from one to 500 units fell to 05. I know the story from Argentina, as well as many others where they had it, one of the songs was a dollar. By getting 100,000 pesos to pay, they thought they had $100,000 until they had 4 zeros. That's what happened! And that's not new! And we're on the same page! And all those who speculated and then dragged money out, the Slovenians, the Slovenians, out and here they didn't pay taxes to pay taxes here, and we'll have at least 300 million, at least, euros more on the revenue side. That's the one that needs to be hunted. Not that we are now fighting here for seven hours and pushing people who are not looking at us at home, but despite the various schemes that we are going to go for the physical and other people, which will be the topic of tomorrow, and we are comforting them to get loans no matter how busy they are for a certain period of time, but we do not really know how many mortgages we are going to have to protect them from taking them off and taking them with us. We have a budget balance ahead of us. It is what it is. Everyone has the right to say: his opposition, his position; but the balance and the content of the balance, but not what someone has done. That's rude. Nobody talked about the contents. We'd all fall if I was the professor on the exam. Nor did one say, nor did one say why the tax revenues are lower by EUR 764,460.000 and why, most strangely, capital revenues are not falling or increasing, which is the biggest problem today. Look at the papers and talk about content, not condemning the policy of one and the other options! Everyone gave, and I believe she'll do well. Because everyone in this country wants to stay in power and if not, help people. And one and the other. Left - right; red - green. I don't care. We talk about content, we talk about amendments, we have 27, let's make sure. While the government has said that it does not accept anyone if the coalition says that coalition parties will say that they support the government, as I expect, of course, it is still allowed to talk about amendments, still to accept any change. If you don't, you don't. But we're specifically talking about content. The balance will be accepted, however, by colleagues and colleagues. Bo! And let it be and bring something good, and the third balance will be in the fall! And I'll back that one up as long as he's heading in the direction of good. But it is true that I will not have a young onion in my garden, even though I would like to. I'll just have, I don't know, green, which I rarely eat. I'll just settle for it. I'll go to the neighbor and he'll lend me a young onion. That's right. In the Slovenian National Party, once again, we will support the rebalancing - we will; we will help to shape the structural changes that we discussed at the second meeting with the President of the Government, and we will try to help us get out of this crisis as constructive opposition. We warn, however, about the magnetic record, already today, that we are still in recession, and the crisis will be recorded in 2010, when we accept the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We shall be strong there, and shall strike upon the table, and shall sit six days, if necessary, after sixteen hours. That's when it's gonna be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the general part of the rebalancing? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Thank you, President, for your word. A nice hello again. Of course, the balance sheet and the rebalancing is a reflection of the real situation. Today we redistribute and share what we have to distribute. If revenues and bags have decreased, then it is only right that a serious and responsible country adapts to this. But I don't think we all act like this in practice. On the one hand, those who critique today's budget correction constantly lay down laws, some additional requirements to make this budget even more and more burdensome, such as, say, in addition to the socially disadvantaged. The country has spent 15 million euros, others would have spent 60, several times that much. Even with the guarantee scheme, we would have completely untied, opened the scrotum; on the other hand, the figures, as we have heard many times today, had dropped by 8.5% in gross social product, that there was a billion 800 million budget deficit, 5.5% of the public financial deficit. But today, when we talk and move these numbers all day, it is certainly our job to put them in an appropriate public financial framework, and in fact - I will just continue where my predecessor, the mayor, who is aware of the real problems in people's lives, continues how many of these things people are interested in. I am sure that we should give more emphasis - all together, those who control and rightly criticize, as we have prepared it - to give concrete answers as to how, with this correction, we will regulate the lives of people in order to make them better. We've set ourselves on two different poles, two trenches. Each stubbornly insists on his own. However, I think we really need to make stories more concrete and focus on the real problems of citizens. To tell which of their problems solves the expected balance, what they will solve and what the next budgets will contribute to, especially in 2010, will be the moment of truth. I must say that this balance, in my opinion and in the opinion of the coalition, gives some concrete solutions, some concrete assurance that life will not get worse and that it is also investing in the right direction. One of the questions that will certainly be of interest to many of us today is how we will make sure that young people get their first apartment, not only with state aid, but also to provide them with conditions for further quality employment so that they can buy their own apartment. The answer is the law we have on the tables, a guarantee scheme for the population. Young families will be able to get on their feet first. But the basic answer is, if a young family with some status, some education, solve any existing problems, they need an apartment. And I think with the population guarantee scheme, to lend people in trouble, we have one of the keys or answers to a question. An important question is also how we will ensure that the middle generation will be able to maintain their current jobs. The best social measure is certainly to keep someone working. I think that this full-time subsidisation has done a lot. Several thousand jobs have been preserved, at a time, at a time when every job is needed. So there's a rebalancing that provides the means to subsidise full-time in the right direction. I think that this government, this rebalancing also has the answers that prospective students can count on free, accessible studies and also on appropriate scholarships so that they can pay their own costs of staying in Ljubljana. The question is how to take care of entrepreneurship, a little trade, so that they have the conditions to expand production. I mean, I'm a man who comes from the field, that the credit crunch hasn't broken yet, but I'm sure he's giving up. Those who have been solid for years, for decades, have done well, worked well, had confidence, reputation, for these people - I think entrepreneurs and tradesmen - are not trouble getting funds and loans from banks. Of course, some who have tried four times, five times in different areas, have nothing to show, and it is understandable there that banks are more cautious about them. I am pleased to read in Finance today as the first measures taken by the Ministry of Finance in the field of tax policy to relieve certain professions of tax burden. I am sure that if the cost of work is lower, then the success will also be higher. I think that the strong and clear messages of the Minister of Finance - with the warnings of the European Union that we are too broad-minded, too wasteful - are that this country wants to preserve social rights, the status and, above all, pensions for the pensioners, and have said that we do not fully agree with Brussels' warnings, certainly on the spot. The efforts of this government, as well as this rebalancing, are moving towards preserving the rights of pensioners. How would someone in Brussels explain to us that pensions are too high and that we spend too much on them if a quarter of these pensioners are on the brink of poverty or social survival! It also seems important to me, as the Minister present today, to have already said about measures in the public sector. I think things are moving for the better there. Of course, we are dealing with a large, rigid system where changes never occur and never show up overnight. But in this country there is a growing awareness that it is the task of all of us in the public service to help taxpayers and taxpayers solve problems, to reduce bureaucratic obstacles, to open doors for them, to tell them how a problem is solved. But not to close their window, so bring these and these documents, and then your role will be solved. I am sure that the awareness that public administration - and it is already a lot more proactive, that it is no longer bureaucratic, that it is no longer so, and that there are more problems that are being solved here. In my view, these are the key questions that we need to answer with a balance. And in my opinion, in the context of the financial opportunities we have, the balance sheet is saving them in the best possible way. It's not ideal, but it's certainly - and I think it's more real than the first - at this point. I want us to accept it as soon as possible and to start implementing it in concrete terms. That is why we will all - and I am sure that most will confirm it today - will also take full responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Respectable. But what I just heard, I could say is that it's a typical representation of the state of Slovenia. Point to the fact that someone is happy to take the first steps of the Ministry of Finance! Listen, if we're not already in the third package of anti-crisis measures, now someone is happy to take the first action of the Ministry of Finance! I don't understand that anymore. But well, that was just by the way. I was thinking about something else. Today we accept the balance sheet. The rebalancing was adopted in March, early April, after all, it doesn't matter, and today we're fixing that. That is to say, the fact is that when you proposed a rebalancing, you sort of traversed the path, the basis, so that you could implement that policy that you imagined. Which is fine. We warned you at the time that we think it is, not to say it is wrong, but that probably all the measures are not good and we specifically mentioned them. After that, we proposed an entire measure of law. You turned them down one by one. Okay. But there's something you need to know. The moment you proposed and accepted the rebalancing, you took full responsibility for what you were doing, because with that you were shaking the conditions for the implementation of your policy, and there are no more excuses that a former government is to blame, and the previous government is to blame, and that John Janša - I don't know, he is not to blame. The fact is that at the time you made the conditions for implementing your policy. That's right. We warned you at the time that something was wrong. Today, after three months, you are repairing that balance, that base of yours, that foundation of yours, those foundations on which you are building your policy of managing Slovenia. We also want to tell you today that this is not what is likely to be right. But well, you have a majority and you rule. We're just reminding you of what we think might be wrong. But with the rebalancing and even today’s rebalancing, you take even greater responsibility and no longer say that a former government is to blame. You have made conditions for the implementation of the policy in Slovenia, leading Slovenia. I wish we were wrong then. But unfortunately, we weren't wrong. You were wrong. On the other hand, I do not have to agree with what some say is of course the fault of the previous government, that this is the wrong thing to mention. I'm not gonna mention it. But there's something else about it. The problem is, if you think you're right - that's the problem. You hope what you're doing is okay. Actually, this is what you didn't believe when we told you that you were building on wrong assumptions. You're still insisting on this, and that's the wrong assumption. Because there are wrong assumptions, you can't take the right measures either. And that's why it's no wonder we have what we have now. This is, say, a 9% drop in GDP or gross domestic product in the first quarter of last quarter. Okay, the crisis is in Europe, we can't tell you that it's your fault if it's a crisis. But something else is the problem. Even one year ago, if Europe was making progress by two or three percent, Slovenia is five or six. More so than Europe. Today, after one year, Europe is going back, I will use this term, with a low three percent and Slovenia with nine. That's three times two, six times here. It is said that from a significantly better than in Europe to a significantly worse one than in Europe. And that's the problem, and that's what makes you think. And this happened -- well, let's say -- in a good six months. That's what I'm trying to tell you, you're building on the wrong foundation, and I feel like we're not living in the real world. It seems to me that you have a feeling that the sun is shining at night and the stars are appearing to you in the afternoon. You can think it, you can hope it, but the reality is different. Now the reality is also different from what you are taking. And that's why they don't take measures. It is obvious that what we are proposing to you - and in this mandate we have almost proposed more measures than the Government has proposed - that the state will not or would not withdraw from this free fall. But, I'm sorry, you've rejected all the measures, you can't possibly know if those measures were to be taken. And we know something else. And that's 100 percent that what you're proposing is not a grip. That's right. And that's because that's what the statistics show. Unfortunately, I'd rather see it the other way around. But you can't deny it. You cannot tell us that the measures we are proposing would not be taken. You didn't try them, you turned them all down! But for your actions, there's evidence that they really don't. That's a fact. And that's something you can't avoid. And now, most interestingly, when we accept the balance of the balance, the real correction of what you have set your way is being corrected for our foundations. Even now, it is suggested that we may accept the rebalance of the rebalanced balance in the autumn, that is to say the third. That says you don't believe what we're doing right now. But you don't believe us, especially when we're talking about amendments, but maybe what's better is what we're proposing. And that's not true. That is to say, you cannot prove to yourself that your actions are probably not the best and the only ones saving, and you are also refusing our help. That's the problem. On the other hand, you say it would be nice if we all did. Yeah, but what if you're rejecting everything? That's not how it works. And one more thing, I'll tell you one more time about the conclusion, and I'll tell you more about it in the amendments. I'd rather see you're right than us, because you're running the country. But unfortunately, it turns out that we're at least as right or more right as you are, even though you're not taking action. Because now it turns out that what we were telling you at the first rebalancing is a lot of this real; the basis was not right and we told you that. You didn't believe it, and now you realize it's true. And in this is the problem of this moment in which Slovenia is now the one you are leading, and of course you have all the responsibility, and you refuse our help - we do not understand that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the general part of the rebalancing? Yeah, I see the hand, I open the application. Perhaps it would not be bad if everyone you want to discuss in general work applied. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. In a way against my will, I didn't intend to sign up, but after so many hours, the nerves also give in if I can honestly admit it, because so many manipulations of numbers and figures, as has been said here today, are hard to find in one place or in one space. No desire for controversy, but, Comrade Petan, in the end you forced me to report. Something principled first. In such a crisis situation, of course, it turns out objectively that the multi-annual adoption of budgets, which is appropriate in a stable situation and smartly, does not lead anywhere. And all the discussions on the rebalancing of the balance or all the discussions based on the former budget for 2000 and the resulting first balance are questionable. It is interesting, however, to defend one side of any comparison with the implementation of 2008, which has been in a rather real situation, in a rather similar situation as the basic budget was adopted. Let's move on. You know, with relative numbers, simplified, with percentages, force is dangerous if politicians get them in their hands - no matter what level - even though someone once told me to teach after school, it's not the purpose of it, but I think that in the fifth grade of elementary school children meet these numbers. But politics is a dangerous force, or politics is a threat to such abuse. This is abuse and misinterpretation. Today, in his opening remarks, Mr Janša immediately rejected one of the absolute data resulting from the comparison of the 2009 plan with the 2008 implementation, in particular how much more is in the absolute amount of funds allocated to the economy that this is manipulation. Interesting. The number stands, the realization is known, the plan is known and the difference of force is simple, and this is supposed to be manipulation. However, in any case, manipulating the list of relative data or rates of growth and comparing it with Europe - I apologize, two of them have already talked about it for the last time, and I will not distribute it widely. Growth rates in the past - all those who are reading the other side to attack some history, because this is because unilaterally, non-critically used data from the past, which are numerically standing, but require comment. The GDP growth rate achieved in the past has two negative sounds. An important part is on credit, and this has been published - all that is related to highways in construction. Not only the highway, but there is another contribution to the loan in terms of investments, because there was enough money available. And what is important is that part of growth, which depends on the export-oriented Slovenian economy, which has now proved to be in the sense that there will be no instigation, is bad. We are a small economy that depends on the external market, and so please do not compare Poland and the Czech Republic, which are incompatible with the internal market, with the Slovenian situation. Neither the Czech Republic nor Poland is so intensively export-oriented and for us - and I say goodbye to the current Prime Minister of the Government - force is more important than what Mrs Merkel will say and what measures she will take as a domestic government. That is the fact that we are condemned to do so, and we must understand and respect that. In all the strong debates, however, you did not tell the difference as to the level of domestic guilt. And I'm not handing it over. It is! And from what! You're talking about action. I have abstained myself for months, weeks, discussions about these strong proposals. We can group them into two groups: one is a direct attack on already-infested public finances, which would only mean an additional cost. You're doing this consciously because the measures are the chosen force likes. On the other hand, there are those whom you claim to be "touching" - the best illustration today for such a measure is why the state or authority does not subsidise the procurement of refrigerators. This one will go back to history. To be empty - do you mean because people wouldn't have anything to put in them?Oh, my God! You didn't say or Candy, I don't do commercials, or Gorenje or Obodin, to be a little mean. Or you think this would stimulate, even though the author of this statement said it would be the A category by energy classification of those classes. Maybe you thought they'd justify the unreasonable expensive purchase of equipment for a blasting thermal power plant. Maybe. You need household appliances that will be empty, but the door will be open so that as much energy as possible will be consumed. Please! Someone who's been in power can't afford to let you do that kind of cheap. These are delusions. Now we're not going to talk about those highways, which is a fact, and about everything that could have happened in another way. Everything was bent, it was simple, it was bent and it was effective for a short period of time. By taking responsibility for the needs of the motorway, you have made room for manoeuvres for other costs. I will make it very simple, I will not touch myself for which, although all could make a broad comment on those costs. And you're forgetting something. You're just talking about the numbers you like. If only there was something to be saved, even though you are sensitive to the business outcome of the state budget. The surplus, the absence, the methodology up, down, the fact is that you have part of the costs that are by nature, the content and the law costs of the state budget, eliminated - one legally, say, financing Darsa, the return of investments in telecommunications is another subject and I don't want to discuss it because you're defending her with every amendment, every moment, because you hope that when someone gives up concentration, you will agree that you will then be able to say, "Yes, that's right." But you don't say anything about percentages or relative relationships when you use them as they grow. I once told the former Finance Minister that he liked to measure everything as a percentage of GDP. The only thing that has not been measured has not been measured and none of the previous authorities has said that the funding for municipalities in the reformed funding system, which has been in force since 1 January 2007, has fallen as measured in GDP. That the highest rate was in 2006, but has fallen since then. But you don't want to hear this information! This will be possible under another amendment, so I will avoid discussion in this direction, what suits or does not suit anyone. Investments. I've said one sentence before. The absolute information that there is more to the investment was used to manipulate or mislead it. But it would be good to remember something else. The fact is that investments - unfortunately this is legality - are among the first to be attacked when money is running out. Now that you are trying to get away from the responsibility for budgetary costs in such a valuable way, this is something extremely interesting. But it's not innovation, it's very clear that I'm not saying anything else. By adopting the first balance of the current government or coalition, it has assumed responsibility for all the history of costs it is. Dear colleagues - yes, you are serious! The budget is 80%, if not more than a percentage, of fixed costs based on laws and other regulations, and this is similar to a large tanker that you cannot just stop and redirect. Such claims, which appear today and for the last time on the Committee, that, following the adoption of the first balance sheet for unreasonable and excessive public financial costs, including for the past, this coalition has taken responsibility, are cheap. What did you think? Forgive people from today to tomorrow? Cancel the contracts from today to tomorrow - who are you? During the pre-election campaign last year, you were very sophisticated in the call for projects. For 45 million euros, you have distributed broadband from the European Union for yourself. If anything requires an investigative commission - I'm afraid Brussels will sanction us. All he wants is this thing! You divided EUR 45 million among yourselves in a call for proposals, during a pre-election campaign, and you set up contracts for a new minister, who is now responsible in your theory if he signs them or not. More and more! He is threatened by the "justifiables" under the command that buses will start to cause quasi-affected citizens to drive to Ljubljana, but they do not say anything that they have shared. It's just one of the illustrations. Just as it does not withstand serious criticism and is very clear this game with responsibility; responsibility will be taken over with the new 2010 budget. If I resent this joint or, if you wish, the coalition government, I resent from the President to the last minister that they have not done the revision - what we have requested in the National Assembly in March - of approved projects and sanctions, which is illegal and against the regulation that has now come into this budget, which the new government and the new Parliament must now respect. You know how many of these there are! And you're still so confident that individual actors of yours are adverting! Today, Comrade Visjak was very symptomatic. And only his project - I have wonderful memories of Brežice, according to Slovenian custom "foščičem" Brežićans some industrial or other economic - far from it! I also went to the polls to see if anyone could tell me anything. It's beautiful! It's great if it ever comes back to life. Do you know how many such Brežicas there are in Slovenia? And the others didn't have a minister in the current government. And now I'm going to say - he's not here, I hope he understands. Your former colleague Puksic has the biggest problem because you forgot to sign his contract for EUR 5 million, which you illegally granted him. And I resent this government, this Prime Minister, this Minister responsible, as well as the Minister of Finance! Everybody knows that! Do you know how many such projects there are? See the list when you explained to us that we have three and a half or four kilograms of material that we received in February on the realisation of European funds. Find it there and then send it - realisation! And those showcases why there are no calls for a small economy! Look what we've been getting and who's got. It's too much, excuse the word "spy" to make people read it because they have or have no will, or they don't care and they speculate on it. And listen to months and months of this bitch, why there are no calls - yes, read the other side, that over a hundred million there is only one job or, simplified, one ministry had - I don't know if there is any today, but a few days ago - incorrect requests from European funds were still up to date! 100 million euros! Those of us who are older have experienced similar relations between Slovenia and Belgrade. You know, we're no different than the ones we saw back then from Brussels. And the former Ljubljana rector, Dr. Mencinger, is right when he said that one B has been replaced by the other, only the mirror image has to be set. This is where we defend and read with all our hiccups. And if anything is responsible, this responsibility is taken over by this government. I have already said this publicly, and I am warning again today: for all these irregularities when they come from Brussels, you will be the loudest. They take responsibility because they have not prevented and removed it, and they will not do so at the earliest possible time. And of course, it's very nice to talk about the measures "a la" refrigerator and something like that. Secondly, this conclusion of the previous or conclusion, I cannot say that it is logical, but I would not like to be offensive when you say to Comrade Petan: "The problem is that you do not believe in our actions and we do not believe yours" - that would be neutral - but you said, "statistics shows that your predictions are not good! But I've never seen anyone about the perspective, except what kind of "stretch" to predict the future from statistics. Statistics are always back. I would like to see one, I will be honest, an effective time-limit reduction measure or time-return measure. I agree with that, and I think that the only one who was correct and good in terms of content, but in terms of the reality of its realization in the event of the fall in public finances - and here is only the fact that they are falling and that there is no stopping for a short period of time, except by an unpopular measure, this is only one or two which are the same content: either to raise the tax rate or to prescribe new taxes. One and the other are unpopular. Someone said that this would be stupid when we get into a real crisis, God forbid, we won't have a choice, neither will we. We won't have a choice either on one thing that I tried to mention in one sentence earlier that we didn't touch the fourth public cash register at all. I have no problem in the part where the municipality provides forty million additional investments if these funds are properly and effectively invested at the local level. But we didn't touch any running costs in the fourth cash register. I hope that we will not go so far as to see what the International Monetary Fund is doing, which places one in four to five conditions, the countries that need an arrangement with it - the reform of local self-government. This can be Croatia, and this can be Serbia, but some countries can also be in the European Union; those who have come so far as to need the assistance of the International Monetary Fund. Perhaps it would also be good for us to get to this stage, so that others will open our eyes and force us to where there are other internal reserves that are in any case. From this point of view, no budget at any level and no balance is so good that it should not have to be measured with objective criteria first and then, on the basis of these measurements, to the greatest extent possible, be objectively criticised. But not in the way of abuse of data by those who could come into one way or another, either for assault or for defense of certain decisions from the past. More on individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Thank you. Were you appointed? Yes, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I repeat two things to Mr. Trofenic. We probably didn't get along with one of them, and I'll do it again. I said that you couldn't know if our actions were to be taken because you were rejecting them. Second. We don't believe your actions. That's what you said to make it somewhere else balanced. However, as far as statistics are concerned, I said that statistics show that your actions are not good. This is normal for statistics to show that your actions are not good. The statistics can't show anything else. You can check in the magnetogram. It was a misunderstanding. But the second thing about taking responsibility is this. Mr Trofenik, with all due respect, but this government certainly assumes those obligations that the previous government has accepted, confirmed, given them to you - in any way. But you also have to - and then you can decide whether or not to take these measures; those that you can still change. But there is something you need to know that Janša's government in 2005 also received commitments from the previous Robbery Government and its thing was whether it could change or change and also changed some things and it was received, we have been given great criticism, why we have changed so many times because we have changed laws. Thus we are completely on the same footing in 2005, the then government as the current government in 2009. And that's why I said it was your responsibility. By accepting the rebalancing, you have laid certain groundwork for ruling. Thus, in 2005, the government laid the groundwork for governance, just as it thought it was right. And then the results were different than they were today. And I wanted to discuss this, that there is a difference here, that at the time, in the previous term, we have made progress faster than Europe, and today we are going back faster than Europe. That's what I'm saying. It's not your fault it's a recession, but it's your fault. That's what I was going to say, and there's no avoiding it. Those are the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss the general part of the budget? Yeah, I'm opening the application. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Thank you. So there won't be a misunderstanding, my respectable colleague, about obligations. There are two kinds of liabilities, you could say, in public finances. Those who are logical, which mean continuity - no matter who is in government - and those who are newly adopted. Those who mean continuity must not and cannot, as a rule, be a problem. But we have received or Slovenians and Slovenians have received in the pre-election period - I don't know how to say it - in terms of costs, obligations, in terms of rights for some, but in terms of benefits that were illogical, and mean - I don't like this, but I have to use it - your side has done it with its majority "saved through Parliament". Anybody would've made it happen. All right. We all know that basic definition of the difference between politicians and statesmen. This is simply not done in the responsibility of its own country. Especially those responsibilities I was thinking about when I pointed that out. That might be the end of it. Now that you're trying to talk, when was the crisis? I'm sorry. Two of the other cardinals were told today. One is not here about the crisis, but on a personal level I have no problems with it, I have to say this way or remember a little bit. Former Minister Vizjak claimed in September that there is no crisis in Slovenia. Whatever we call it, whatever paper we wrap it in, of course it doesn't. Or we could wrap it in paper, or cellophane, or something for better gifts. No matter what the paper was, this accident was present, and everyone normal, responsible, and serious had to be aware of what was coming. And another one fell, and I forgot to warn her before. That's not true, dear fellows. Just as you denied the crisis, now you're trying to deal with this banking or credit crunch at the moment - you know, it's not that easy. She warned that banks are working in their own way - and I will say nice because bankers are extremely difficult - I do not want to harm the banking system, that some decisions are questionable, are in the works of Banka Slovenije last June, if I am not mistaken, and this report counts somewhat less than 300 pages. With all due respect for craftsmen and their associations and their newspapers, just reading about the mood of some respondents, or even representatives, that it is not possible to get a loan - to say the least - cannot be generalized. It is not possible to generalise because it is necessary to first answer whether there is no money, whether banks do not wish to give, or whether projects are such that they do not raise confidence or do not meet the criteria. And now that someone in the third grade is part of this group, they say that it's impossible to get a loan, we can't generalize it. Because, at least equally, you should read the warnings of responsible Slovenian banks that say that it is an economy and are waiting for initiatives. I deeply agree with someone who here warned a while ago how unprepared the Slovenian economy was for such a crisis. On the basis of the statistics you claimed here today some other - that it was prepared. If that were true, it wouldn't be a problem with the cancellation. However, since we produce, unfortunately, with full respect for the seriousness of the social consequences that follow, we produce goods that cannot be sold on the market at the moment, it is not possible to say that this part of the economy was ready for crisis. The crisis is an opportunity, even because it forces different thinking and restructuring, but the smart and responsible make these changes and think about it before the crisis comes. Here I am not only thinking of politics, but of both, the economy and the policy that must create the conditions for it. It is a condition for me to simplify, but forcing that part of the economy to think so with such or other instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Replica, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Dear Members and Members! I don't know why you're sitting here if you don't listen to what your fellow Member says. I listened to him myself in his office and he was talking a lot of nonsense, really, literally, and he's lying in between and so on. But one of the most eclectic was this one, linked to the performance of my post in the previous term, when he said that after the end of last December's term, I had said that there was no crisis in Slovenia and that there would be no crisis. That's what he said. There's no crisis. That's what he said. Of course it's not true, Mr. Trofenik, prove it to me! With one piece of paper, prove these claims to me! What you said was a lie. I used the word "recession" to say that there is no recession in Slovenia, and if we did the right thing, it would not. The difference between the crisis and the recession is great. If you don't understand that, I'll explain. The recession is two quarters in a row of negative economic growth. We didn't have it and we only received it in the second quarter of this year. The crisis is what everyone imagines. For some there is a decline in economic growth; for others there are other exacerbations, such as the failure of the financial market and the like. Dear Mr. Trophynik. I urge you to submit evidence for your claims. If you don't have them, you'll have to apologize publicly. That's one thing. The other thing is that you will have to make a public apology for this claim that the previous government or that we have even distributed 100 million European funds from Brussels, for which we will still have a headache. If so, I ask you in front of everyone and in front of the Slovenian public: Whom specifically did you announce, if there are any suspicions of any irregularities and of any authority and when?Oh, my God! If you don't, shut up!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Mr. Trofenik, there's no replica on the replica. You checked in early. Yeah, you can do that, but I haven't given it yet, okay. [[...]] Mr. Anton Urh, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretaries of State, colleagues and colleagues. I have often thought that if there were no cameras in the National Assembly, the discussions would be much shorter and different. However, in this case, when Comrade Trofenik spoke, I was glad that the cameras were on, because I believe and I know that he told a lot of truth, and I am glad that there were quite a lot of viewers in Slovenia in this part of his discussion. "We are ready to take responsibility," said the President of the Government and the Government when he took over the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that when the Government prepares this balance, it knows what it is doing, and that this balance goes on or that the rights of pensioners are not lost in this balance, the rights of the socially weak, so that these rights will not be undermined or that they will have their incomes, as they were before. The crisis is a clear thing. Slovenia, I am listening today, is the worst country in this Western bloc or in the European community. It is true, we are small, and there is also something that young people feel much sooner a crisis than a great one. If I were to illustrate, say, one big farmer and one small farmer, and there was a hunger, the little one was hungry much earlier than the big one. But something's true. If you have a good master who knows how to rule, then a good master will later feel a crisis as well as a master who is worse at mastering his possessions. And maybe there's a part of the blame that Slovenia is in such a bad situation now, if that's true. This balance, prepared by the Government, will be supported by everyone in the Desus Group. Of course, we will not support the amendments to this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Dr. Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I did not intend to come by myself, but the debate is going in such a direction that I feel this duty. The one who looks far ahead sees more than the one who looks a little further. That is why politics is likely to see something similar in the way that a policy that sees only one mandate sees poorly. We certainly knew that during the previous government when there was no economic crisis when there was no recession when it was relatively large, in fact one of the biggest growth in Europe. That is also why we have taken some decisions for a significantly longer period. Such decisions should also be invited by the opposition, and we have done so. This is also done by Croatians very successfully. Especially at a point called the solution to the problem in Slovenia, which is being solved in a way that at least out there is public unity. Of course we don't. To this end we have invited you, other colleagues from the current coalition, to the so-called partnership for development and those who wanted to participate, also participated. The LDS vehemently rejected this, a later descendant or a daughter or whatever it is called, indeed, it also vehemently rejected it. The SD has been involved in this with a slightly less resistance, probably a sharper word from the current Prime Minister of the Government. Many of you who are sitting here have been involved in this process. I myself, you know, have cooperated, and I believe that that period has been successful in terms of cooperation between the coalition and the opposition. You pressed the "yes" button on your own in tax law four times out of six laws, but that's not an obvious, that's a confession. President Pahor said in his speech, "The times of crisis are coming," but he is a politician, and he sees a little further, at least in my opinion, "so we will immediately approach some form of partnership for development, so that we can get through these times together also with the help of the opposition." That's about what he used. Of course, nothing's happened in two months. After two months we have proposed this, we have written some agreement in fact according to the model we used for 2006 and 2007 and the first half of 2008. What did he experience? He experienced a "no" by Zares and LDS and experienced a rebellion in his own party, but the hawks overruled him. Therefore, my debate will not go in the direction of what the previous government is, what the current government is, but I would like to remind you that in such times of crisis, the most important things in this country, which would lead to an exit from this crisis, would have to be resolved together, but this world or this hall is slightly reversed. We offer you help, we offer it in writing, and you say no. And you also said no to all the solutions we offered, probably because you think you're smarter or something. But I'm not sure that's the way it is, I'm not sure that's the way it is, and I'm not even reading anything to you. But, blue politician, so your party president, or the current government, I think he sensed it, felt it, and publicly said it, but you stopped it. And so here at this point I'm going to end up [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] If you have something to say, sign up for the word, [[..]] [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] If you want to say anything, sign up for the word. [[...]] And all the evidence of what I said, of course, exists. You'll find them in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, but they're not classified. That's why it would be wise and good to follow the Prime Minister, but I would expect this call from you, not that I'm saying it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Kontic, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u89	Yes, please tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Let me first tell you why [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Time is running out, but I should not be running at the time of the mission, because the group of procedural proposals does not count in time. [[..]] But good, that's enough time. I protested yesterday, and today I repeat this protest, yesterday there were insults in this House. And yesterday, if I use the sport lingo again, the blows used under the belt, which are prohibited in sports. So, low blows. In addition, they were already used yesterday in the discussions of various animals. And I suggest we don't use them carelessly. I would like to warn you that this story is repeating itself today. And I protest most strongly against the statements made by the speaker, who wants to be cohesive and talk about partnership, but at the same time talks about my colleagues and colleagues as about hawks. I protest most strongly, and I expected you, Mr Vice President, to remind him of this statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u91	This was not a procedural proposal. That was the comment. I agree with you, Mr Kontic. That's what I must say. For when I sat in this place a little earlier, there was such a debate that I had on my mouth to say, "Please," - and I'm going to say this right now - "let's raise the level of our debate a little bit higher than that." Who else would like to discuss general work? Report. Mr. Villa Trophynik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Visiak is not here, so I'll be very brief. It's not my fault that I have to tell him in his absence that I'm not lying or stupid, maybe he thinks he's the best minister, but he's obviously a bad listener. He replaced December with September - I was talking about September. I also explained in a parable which statement I think he made and, of course, confused. Yes, I was talking about a government document bearing the title of the Report on the use of European funds and so on, where there are only 95 million inappropriate requests at the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service, then other ministries, so it is strong over 100 million. But I didn't say that a hundred million people shared anything else. But I said, and for this there are documents that 45 million for broadband internet have been distributed by the former coalition with the names of the mayors and the addresses of the recipients, and these are the municipalities. That's what I said. Apparently, where he listens, there is poor sounding, and I hope that the leadership of the National Assembly will ensure that the sound of the National Assembly is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Yeah, you got a replica. Although it's a little strange for me to say "flight" to the gym and say "replication."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u94	Yes, of course, listen, Madam Vice President, Your Honourable Fellow Members! I am listening to this debate through the sounding of Parliament in my office, and there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that you must be in the Parliamentary Chamber so that you can have a replica if someone misrepresents you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u95	That's why I gave you the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u96	Yes, thank you very much. See, for the first time, if what Mr Trophynik says was true, that the previous government did not take up the crisis in time or that it did not recognize it at all, then it would not have been at one of the meetings, even when it was still doing business, it is said by the elections, September last year, that it also analysed and commissioned the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development a document in which scenarios are possible to deal with the emerging situation in Europe and Slovenia. This item was on the agenda of a government meeting. Certainly this is not known to Mr Trofenik, but it is known to the current government, which, of course, can also be done through magnetograms and through appropriate records at least a view. At that time we discussed two possible scenarios - very important for understanding our perceptions. The first scenario is to act in a timely, swift manner to prevent the crisis from deepening. And the second scenario is when the crisis gets richer in the broadest sense of the word across the country and problems related to the crisis are to be put out of the way. And that's why we proposed four measures. Four laws were adopted at the time by the government. Fortunately, two of them were gathered later when the government arrived and when Parliament adopted them by the end of last year, and two unfortunately did not. And I'm sure it would mean a lot in dealing with the crisis, but unfortunately it wasn't. As much as the previous government and the Minister of Economic Affairs himself were aware of the situation. So the data, the documents claim otherwise than your flat-rate findings. However, the documents are the minutes and magnetograms of the September government meeting there. That's the first thing I want to say. Second thing. Wrong reference again. Mr Trofenik stated that according to the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government, I do not know how many millions were wrong or, in any way, errors in the requests for reimbursement from the European budget. This also happens daily to anyone who is actually working in this operation, because requests when they come, I don't know, are poorly equipped - whether there is no account attached or not - and it has to come back to complete the claim for reimbursement and when the claim for reimbursement is complete there is also a refund. And this does not mean that this use was wrong and that, of course, it did not work out in the process at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u98	So you have given the wrong information - I will conclude immediately, Madam Vice-President - and I very kindly ask you to be precise next time with the previous government and the previous minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I didn't intend to advertise myself, but when a man listens, he has to sit in here, I won't replicate, but I will simply deny one thing, and I will warn one thing that some - whether you have a short memory or you need to wake up, because it's not far back a year when things happened and then they were sitting in government premises and they had us, MEPs for some kind of fool who mix apples and pears, and today I'm going to be on one of the other cases that turned out to be the previous government team and ministers involved - not only pears and apples, but something else. First of all, I have to disprove the constantly recurring, yesterday and today intensely this analysis and the valuable judgment that is taking place in the SD party. I would ask the biggest opposition party and so-called analytical trails to avoid this because they simply cannot and do not know what is happening in our party. For every president, including your president, it's best for him to have smart people around him. Smart people don't always need a president. Think about it and then do your analysis on. And a second time. To go to the former best minister of today in the previous government. TDR, I'm just going to name him first, because I treat it in size, in importance, by size, I treat it. In importance, in size - there will be no mistake. TDR Ruše, the promises made last spring, against the summer, are unfulfilled, and at that time even threats were threatened in this hall by what we are launching and what we are saying and what we are talking nonsense about the workers who were employed there. Most of them are on the road today, with no satisfaction, and some ministers have even promised great departures ect. Secondly, this week we had the opportunity to see and read after a year that the Office of Competition Protection found that electricity was an agreement. The former government representatives said in this Chamber that we are mixing - those who have warned us that this is also a matter of co-responsibility for governments, not just the authorities that have to deal with it if there is to be a finding of co-responsibility - apples and pears. Today, I think it does, because you praised this office for doing well, and this office found that it was an agreed increase and that these electrical distributors were also owed money. So I wonder: Does anyone in the previous government have a responsibility to repay this money to those people who have paid for it? For the right time in this Hall was warned of the consequences that might happen. But, like today, vehemently, some pedestal was then discussed from government premises and is being discussed today from opposition. I suggest you calm the ball down a little bit, get a little squirming, and you're not so aggressive and so aggressive. To get you together and maybe then this partnership on the political scene in Slovenia will really come to life. With such partners as you say for the last two days, it is really not possible to sit at the same table and solve the crisis and recession in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u101	I'm opening the application. We are still talking about the general work of the proposal for a budget rebalancing or we are discussing. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much for telling the president that we are talking about rebalancing 2 on the rebalance 1 of this government, not one of the previous governments, because we have listened to everything else for the last two hours. The pain of some is so great that they not only thoughtfully but also physically back projected into the opposition. Mr Trofenik will have to publicly explain his statement, which he repeated twice, that the former ruling coalition has allocated EUR 46 million for the optical network. He said, "you've distributed 46 million euros for the optical network." He will have to explain this publicly, or he will have to make a public apology. Since I am aware of these things, but I believe that you, too, have had them in the National Assembly on your request three times, you have considered them even twice at this plenary session - I believe that you have made it difficult to get through the list only through the contents of these projects - you have seen how these projects were carried out in all municipalities, regardless of who the mayor was in which municipality. We have had a lot of discussions on this and the problem is not, which project and where they have been implemented in the past, the problem is that now the new ones cannot be implemented because there is no basis for this. Last year, until that time, the former Minister for Regional Development issued four calls, and this year we have not witnessed one. That's the problem. The problem is, this time, how will you spend what you have committed yourself to spending from the European Union? By the first half of the year you paid it 54% according to the index you recorded in Balance 1 and you received the index 28 - according to what you wrote yourself in Balance on 1 March of the month. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking today about the correction of the former government budget, we are talking about the correction of your balance that you brought to the National Assembly three months ago, and that day, when we adopted it in March, you realized that it wasn't real and you said that the day you pressed the key on it was going to happen. That's what we're talking about, and we have very clear numbers here! And thank you very much, Mr President, for reminding us all that we are talking about this: we are talking about a correction. Then, well-intentionedly, as today, we warned that the time and withdrawal of this so-called urgently needed rebalancing of March month, because you had a number on the table, data that they had already drugged. You didn't do it, you pressed the keys, you accepted it, and three months later we're taking Balance 2, which you're saying is necessary again, but you'll have to accept another one in three months. Why are we doing this? Do it - because we won't do it! At least we are trying to prove through the debate that this is irrational and unproductive. You have adopted two billion 300 million euros with a rebalancing of 1 March of the month of debt, 2 billion 300 million euros. With Zipper, you're proposing three billion three hundred million euros. Implementation of 1 to 6 billion and a half under the 2009 funding programme, adopted by the Government on 23 April 4 billion 962 million 384.901. 5 billion euros in 2009 in debt at 7 billion 920 million euros! These are the figures to be considered, especially because it is necessary to realize that most of this money will go into irreversible use from which there will not be any euro of the multiplier effect to come forward. And when you said there were no proposals, the proposals were recently there. Tomorrow we will discuss the law for which we have proposed to you in April to accept it, and you have rejected it if it is not necessary and there will be no effect on it. At that time, we also said that all of this was coming late, and now there really will be no effect. I suggest you stop turning back, because somehow you've lost your sense of time and what's important and what's necessary. The fact is that what had to be done in the first half of the year, unfortunately, was not done. And at least now, as soon as possible, because the fall will be really too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would also like to stress that the current coalition should focus on the responsibility to manage this country further, on the basis of the existing situation and challenges, to enable a better future. And this better future, according to the coalition, is covered in this rebalancing. This balance is a disaster for our future. In addition to being headlessly indebted to us, it does not open up and support those initial development projects. This is a disaster. Afterwards, fellow Members of Parliament find themselves left in despair, accusing them of some of the past actions of the past government. Each of these actions can be opened up to controversy and I am always prepared to lead it, both on the evaluation and agreement of distributors, as well as on privatisation and then bankruptcy of the Nitrogen Plant Ruša. Last but not least, we have talked about this a lot in this House. All of this is possible and all of this you have at your disposal, you can take this parliamentary inquiry, you can do whatever you want. I will gladly take part in this debate and, of course, help you to come to some conclusions. But for God's sake, start ruling, start accepting what people have chosen you to do! People didn't elect you to deal with any thing that you think has not happened in the past or has been, let's say, controversial. We have other institutions for this in Slovenia. If there's any suspicion of any illegal conduct, you have the police to do it, you have the prosecutions to do it. If the commission of inquiry - that's right, we have a whole bunch of instruments to deal with. For God's sake, in the debate on the balance and the future of Slovenia, try to convince us that this document is for the benefit of this country and its inhabitants, not for destruction, as we believe in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Kumar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. I said earlier that I did not stop by because I was going to go into the past, but because some of them had stopped by and talked about past actions, I had to answer. And just like now, with what scale and on what basis the arguments can be used to make this rebalancing a disaster. Does anyone who speaks and uses this word "catastrophe" know what that word disaster means? That tomorrow is the end of this world or what it imagines! At the same time, when he says that by 2008 until autumn, everything was in order! It's like we were born again in November 2008! Yeah, it's like we were born again. We stood on this Earth, some foundation. And you always make excuses to the President of the Government and the President of the SD. He never spoke about it, and he said that everything in the past four years has been the best. But his words are that he won't criticize the past four years, but now that he's faced with the situation, he can do it out loud, and you've heard him, he says everything wasn't in the best order. And that's why they're having problems now. And how can the former, who have sat in the government for four years, say the same thing, which also solves the situation, including the bad things of the previous government, say now that this is a disaster - the solutions they are proposing. And once again, I warn you in good faith: avoid words, such cruel words as the word disaster. Because it's a long way from here! And I'm energetically saying, this rebalancing isn't catastrophic. This balance is within the scope of the capacity inherited by this Government and in what situation we are now in. And I'm not going to make a difference between crisis and recession. The situation and situation are difficult and whatever, whether we sit in opposition or position, we are all responsible, regardless. You're responsible, too! But greater responsibility, but greater responsibility is, of course, on the side of the coalition! So allow it and do not stumble in advance when things have not yet come to pass, 'faithful', that the thing is catastrophic, that this government is incapable of doing anything good and so on. We've been hearing this for six months. Six months! There's not a colleague sitting in here today who's got this in the repertoire. He always has the opening line: this government is incompetent, has done nothing and then proves it with the graphs that we saw in 2007. In short, I would like to suggest once again that you hold back a little while and that you are a little patient and wait for some results. Well! Not that you're already putting them in a package of catastrophic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u107	Anybody else want to discuss this? One. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Once again, I'd say deaf this time, too. We are talking about the balance of two rebalances one proposed by your Government in March of the National Assembly. That government! The government of Borut Pahor in March of the National Assembly advocated a rebalancing, which is three months from now, and we are considering this today, has found that it is no longer sustainable. To reduce the revenue for about a weak billion, to increase the deficit from a billion 200 to a billion 850 million euros, to increase the debt ratio from two billion 300 million euros to 3 billion 300 million euros, plus the issuance of securities, which brings us to the five billion that I quoted earlier. That's your government's information. Your Government has found that what it advocated in March no longer holds that correction is necessary; correction - drastic down. Now, whether it's a disaster or not, I don't know, you're gonna answer that question yourself, I'm sure it's not something good. It would probably be good if there was a correction in another direction, in such a way that we could see from it a green light, a perspective, some light at the end of this tunnel, which is not, because also predictions say that this deficit and debt - by the way, this means two thousand euro "per capita" for everyone who was born today, two thousand five hundred Euros of debt, from nothing - that this debt will hold us for the next four to five years. And that's the problem, and we've alerted you to this problem! We have said that a deficit is needed to get out of the crisis, but it needs to be steered in a useful and smart way and tell us when the boat will start or start turning in a different direction. We didn't get that answer, and we don't have it. And he doesn't have a finance minister! Look, this is a disaster for me, but now I don't know if it's for you. That the finance minister doesn't have this answer right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u109	I note that no one wants to discuss this first point, the general part of the budget rebalancing proposal. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held today, following a closed debate on this agenda item. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. The second point is that. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2009 In order to read the amendments by user and subroutine address. First: Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and abroad, proposed by SDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We continue, secondly: user - Ministry of Interior, sub-programme Criminal activities, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. No one wants to discuss it. Third: user - Management of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, Subprogramme Preparation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance. Applicant for SDS. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Respectable. So we tabled this amendment because we believe that the Department of Protection and Rescue has unduly lost funds at the previous balance sheet. This was, of course, wrapped within the framework of the Ministry of Defence, czech and more butter fewer cannons. But the fact is, climate change is here. The atmosphere is changing. Now, why don't we lose our words. Natural disasters are becoming more and more common, that is a fact, and those who think that the disaster is going to be reduced, I don't know which year, of course, are mistaken. What does that mean? This means that the country must intervene in areas affected by floods, reptiles, hail and droughts and similar natural disasters. Therefore, we believe that it is irresponsible in this area to reduce funds and give people false hopes by describing damage, and then, after all, the scribes tell them, well, the state will not be able to intervene, know each other as you know and know. The country will have to intervene, it will also have to repair infrastructure where natural disasters occur and it needs money to do so. In addition, the only organised force on this segment is the firefighters who need appropriate equipment, so we believe that this item should be increased. We also expect that for the next few years, these funds will be greater, not smaller, but more each year. These are needs, these are real needs. It's not our whim because you want to dictate to the government, but it's what the facts show. They're natural disasters. There were more natural disasters in Slovenia this year than there was last year, and the damage is much greater. Therefore, we believe that funds should be added to this segment. That's why we tabled this amendment, and given what's been happening in Slovenia this year, the biggest heat, the heat wave is still coming, and there are more accidents at the time, and the damage is even greater. We are therefore proposing this amendment to increase funds in this segment and, of course, we are asking for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, would you like to discuss this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Of course, as my speaker said, I am also in favour of this amendment, which we have drafted in our parliamentary group, because it is simply an extremely important area where we are warned about daily weather changes and the consequences of these weather changes, not just weather changes. Preparation of a system for protection, rescue and assistance. This system is extremely important. See, last week we were warned by this attempt of systematic terrorism, which, otherwise, an unbalanced Croat has been preparing; but despite the fact that it is an unbalanced person, so at least reported, the consequences could be very serious. Only on such occasions do we know how important it is that we have prepared this system for protection and rescue, this service and all this volunteering, which is present at some normal level in Slovenia. In the resolution we adopted yesterday, in the Resolution on the National Programme for Protection and Resolution, Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, we also contributed a referral to the Ministry of Defence and then to other services, this will go to the Ministry of Finance and others to re-examine how to enable voluntary societies working in the field of protection and rescue in the public interest to be able to do something about their events. These events are organized in order to obtain additional funds for their activities. When this is done, and I am firmly convinced that this can be done, we are always warned by firefighters on the ground every time, then such amendments will be unnecessary. However, at the moment of exceptional exposure, these financial assets must be strengthened on this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u113	Mrs. Kamnar Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Allow me to express the Government's opinion on the amendment tabled, in particular because there will be no misunderstandings. See, the sub-programme contained in this amendment actually contains costs for the operation of the service within the Ministry of Defence. So it's the cost of people working on these things and the classical material costs associated with it. Of course, partly for the purchase of the equipment that is needed. No specific programmes are currently envisaged for the purchase of equipment, as it has not been assessed that this is absolutely necessary. The reduction envisaged in the rebalancing itself is based solely on the reduction of material costs in terms of austerity measures where everyone had to participate, but this reduction is not such as to jeopardise the operation of this service. However, as regards the financing of measures, including those that occur in individual natural disasters, this is always done through a permanent budget reserve, which is also set up in the Public Finance Act as an instrument through which interventions can be financed and then through the Law on Natural Disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u115	Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, I intended to give up the debate because the Secretary of State has already said a lot about this and why this amendment should not be supported. But still, because the colleagues who proposed this amendment - and I think in good faith that there is nothing that would not be good - have slightly manipulated the public with this. In fact, the item that talks about protection and rescue and the means for operational action is already increasing the proposal for a rebalancing by a million, a bad million, 990 thousand. This amendment does not increase this, it increases in the segment where the Secretary of State said it was primarily about buying and building basic funds within the Ministry and within the Ministry. On the Committee on Finance, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence said that they could not implement these funds, even if they were received, this year. Therefore, of course, we cannot support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u117	I conclude the debate on this amendment. I assume you have a list of amendments all ahead of you, so let's continue. User of the Ministry of Justice, sub-programme "Regulation of the field of justice. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We are proposing this amendment, in fact, a more symbolic sum of EUR 10,000, but still. It is the fact that the Ministry of Justice, at least in our view, has already been considerably reduced in both of its various programmes and sub-programmes. At least some data suggest that we are already lagging behind even for Croatia and others in the area of e-Justice, rather than following more Europe. However, with Mr Squill, I propose an equal reduction in the General Secretariat of the Government. Before that, however, we have already heard from the explanation that nothing has actually happened in the General Secretariat of the Government but that there is no crisis, but also in the light of the initial budget adopted by the previous Government, its funds have increased by quite a few percent, which, in my opinion, is not necessary and is more necessary in justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Thank you. I conclude the debate on this amendment. We're moving on. User Ministry of Economy, sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy. Applicant for SDS. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Fairly speaking, the question is whether or not to discuss any of the amendments. On the Committee on Finance, the previous day, the Minister freely said: "We will throw it all away." Then he said he didn't have the government's opinion yet, that would come later, but that they'd throw it all away. This shows that the Government of the National Assembly does not take as a partner, but rather as a tool. A tool in the composition of the ruling coalition, which he takes into his hands when he has to press the keys. This has proved to be true several times, including in this budget or rebalancing, in a number of laws, it has proved to be the appointment of the Director-General of Police, where, six months before the legal change took place, the Minister announced that she would elect her Director-General and become the Director-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u121	Mr. Chernač, we have the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u122	I'm moving to content.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u123	But I'd like you to stick to the amendment. I'm going to insist strictly that we only talk about amendments and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Things are very intertwined in this country. Politics, top policy, corruption, the economy, it's all somehow connected; individual ministries, postal collectors who get jobs and so on. And in this sense, Mr President-in-Office, it is normal for an economic amendment to be intertwined, all of this is somehow in this boiler and there is this broader dimension, which is right to present it. However, I started by whether it was even an opportunistic debate or not, because it is clear in advance that Members of the ruling coalition here are only a tool that will be used in accordance with the previous forecast to reject everything. The Ministry of Economy, Promoting a Small Economy - why is this amendment for five million euros? This is because it is a segment of the economic sphere from which positive effects can be expected most quickly in the given situation. As a result, it is not good that this support, which has already been taken through the 1 March rebalancing process, is taken again through Balance 2 with a significant reduction, a multimillion-dollar reduction in the funds needed. For this reason, we propose that at least one part of these funds should be maintained and that this segment, on which the upgrade is also dependent, is essentially dependent on this budget, depending on whether more VAT, taxes and everything else will flow into this budget. This is the source of all this infrastructure, and if it does not, it will not be possible to supply it either. Now it seems this: the economic part is in crisis, everyone has to squeeze the belts, only the public administration does not see it. And given that the volume of investments is declining by more than 100 million euros, the mass of people who are going to be doing less is not, it is a very strange and problematic matter. In view of the proposal to support this small economy at least at a symbolic level with these five million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u125	Thank you. Then there is the second amendment of the same user of the Ministry of Economy, Promoting the development of tourism and the hospitality of the same proposer. No one's going to discuss it. We're moving on. User Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Sub-programme for Rural Development, SDS Parliamentary Group. Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I also wonder whether it is worth explaining these amendments, given that we have received the government's opinion that I do not support any. But I will now speak to colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, and not to Vlad. We are the ones who accept the budget, we are the ones who accept the amendments, and I ask you to forget who the proposer is. Since it is more than obvious that you will reject all the amendments proposed by the opposition, at least this is the opinion of the government, because you are blindly following the government, but there will be no real effect. Area 23 - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Since the first rebalancing of the budget, the funds have been further reduced by EUR 15 million. Given the state of affairs in agriculture, I don't think we should just afford it. The forecasts show a marked deterioration in the income situation of the sector and the reduction is unacceptable and, consequently, constitutes an additional deterioration and exacerbation of the agricultural situation. Proposed budget cuts for 2009 in areas such as the rural development programme, direct payments in agriculture, wine-growing restructuring and fisheries development programme. All of these items are falling and this is unacceptable. In my opinion, all of this will further exacerbate the already bad economic situation in agriculture. And it is a mockery of agriculture that funds for the functioning of the Ministry authorities and individual services are being increased on the sub-item. It's actually a funny and wrong world. We are proposing an amendment, i.e. additional funding for rural development worth €5 million. I think that if we have MEPs and Members of conscience, then we will help agriculture, to this extent, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u127	Thank you. Mag. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Of course, there is not much to add to my predecessor's debate. Agriculture is an important area, although I think that this government and this ministry at the principal and actual level are implementing the right measures, the subsidies are paid earlier, better, even think about the withdrawals, and what is most important if the Slovenians continued the policy as we have since independence, then we would not be left with much in 20, 30 years of good agricultural areas. I stopped by this amendment not only for the support of agriculture, but for where this is taking place. These funds would simply be taken from the item Return of investments in the public telecommunications network. Listen, all the people in these times of crisis who are being returned to them by the state, including this money, and they urgently need it, and it's right to get it. Additional euros, returns are different, but on average there are between 300 and 1,100, 1,200 euros. I think this is very important for the family budget. The amendment, which saves something on the one hand, on the other hand, is not good and positive and I do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u129	Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Yes, if this is an obstacle to the support of my colleague Sayovic, then I will comfort him - this return of investments will continue to be carried out normally, even if this amendment supports. In view of the fact that the mayor was probably already in the hands of a transfer of these investments, where the remittance form shows that the funds were not transferred by the State budget or by the Ministry of Finance and by the Slovenian Compensation Company. We know what story it's all about, that we wouldn't be warming her up in the National Assembly for the past 10 years. This is a story with which you tried to show, through your long hunts, how negative the closure of the 2007 account was, even though this expenditure was not shown in the budget, despite the fact that the funds were provided by the Slovenian Compensation Company in 2007 and 2008, in particular, to the beneficiaries; hence, they were paid from its account. I therefore do not understand how these funds could and in what way be charged to the budget account. Otherwise, this year, when you first introduced a €50 million item into the balance sheet 1 you adopted in March. At the time when we took this item, you stubbornly insisted that even the euro should not be missing, because otherwise these beneficiaries would be deprived. Well, now you've reduced this item to EUR 38 million yourself, and you said on the board, yes, it is, but that 38 will be enough. Having arrived two or three months ago in this law with the guarantee for the Slovenian Compensation Society, which was a unique thing in the National Assembly, that the National Assembly, that the State has accepted a guarantee to ensure the liquidity of the Slovenian Compensation Society, precisely for this purpose, is to pay the beneficiaries of the investment in the public telecommunications network. The Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is clear and clear in Article 12: the State transfers 653 thousand and several shares of Telekom to the Court and from this title the Court is obliged to carry out these returns. The fact that the Court of First Instance did not sell these shares because of the adverse market situation does not oblige it. He just acted economically, guaranteed from other means, and since the times were as they were, you first came with this state guarantee two months ago, despite once again providing these funds. So what happens now? The Court is still paying these funds to the beneficiaries, and you are telling him from the budget that you do not have a formal basis for this in any law, except in this rebalancing. You don't have a formal basis in marriage. At the meeting of the committee, I asked the Minister three times to tell me which article of his law allows you to do so from the state budget under Article 12 of the Law on the return of investments in the telecommunications network - I did not get an answer. I didn't get it. I see now that Mr Trofenik raises his hand to say again that I am wrong and that I do not understand the finances, etc., but this is his story, but he is an eternal dissatisfaction and cannot possibly be removed from this role of the opposition Member. Accordingly, he must also be allowed to debate, think and sum up, and I do not intend to listen to him. So, dear fellow Saiovice, he's not afraid. All beneficiaries of the return on investment in the public telecommunications network will receive the funds, as they have received so far, even if you support the amendment, and this will greatly help agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Madam Secretary of State of Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to quote you on the law that is the basis for the payment of telecommunications compensation. Article 3 of the Law on Returning Investment in the Public Telecommunications Network states: "The Republic of Slovenia is a party to the return on investments in the previous Article of this Act. On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the return on investments shall be carried out by the Slovenian Compensation Society." Thus, the law clearly states that the Slovenian Compensation Society is doing so on a State's order. And now, why did we lower the amount from 50 in the first balance to 38 in the second balance? This year, €24 million has been paid out under this Act up to this point. In June, the sum of 336 thousand 392, will be paid in July 594,982, in August 3 million, in September 4 million, in October 3 million 500, the same in November and December. Since the state budget pays next month after the payment has been made, this is 37 million and something because if we round up, the amount in the budget balance is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. He added another point to my two predecessors, or I would also like to ask the Secretary of State. When I was looking at the rebalancing, the first rebalancing, I compared how much money was allocated to agriculture or almost exactly the same amount - that is 15 million to round - it was added to agriculture with the first rebalancing, so to speak, the area of agriculture. That's how much you take with another rebalance. That's interesting. And secondly, I'd like to express my fear. In fact, in the Rural Development Programme, there are grants and transfers payments to legal and natural persons who are not budgetary users. These are mainly those who respond to these calls. I am afraid that funds for the payment of subsidies will be made, although the Government explains that 43.1% of the planned funds have already been realised, but I am afraid that these funds will be cut short by the end of the year, and farmers will be able to pay for these subsidies and will not be paid. In addition, the explanatory statement states that there has been a delay in payments in the coming years for the implementation of approved investments. Again, I do not argue that this is not possible because when I walk on the ground - or I am also called - the inspectors, when they control the correctness of the implementation of investments, there was one comment, they also go into how much, say, someone who deals with farm tourism gets subsidies from this title, they also go into how much light they have. He's got one too many or one less. Of course, then there is a record, to which it must complain, to prove that it is right or wrong, and to which the matter goes. Maybe that's not why. I'm not saying that's it. We are therefore of the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party that more resources should be provided for this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u135	Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, Mr. Chernach, for allowing me to speak. Now to avoid any instigation: all I am going to say is that someone would not understand that I have anything against any increase in agricultural resources, but this amendment is one of the most beautiful illustrations of making applicants who, I am sure, agriculture serves only as a means to something else. For what? In order to exclude from the budget line - or at least to reduce, if not already eliminated, the realizations cannot be excluded - and to embarrass the budget manager at the point of return to the telecommunications network. Power is interesting! Those who have proposed a referendum - I have nothing against it, far away from having any objection to return, you even prescribed two-thirds of my amendment then into law. Now show the right face. In fact, you have little to do with honest return and actual return, but for the message, for the impression, for the political points and so on. And over and over and over again you are trying to question the legal basis, ignoring the Court of Auditors' findings - there is no Court of Auditors for you - and should be advocating the rule of law. You're always trying because it's not the only such amendment, so troublesome some fact with some final account. The Secretary of State has told you clearly enough, and now at least someone should be embarrassed about how he tried to get a minister who obviously did not have this financial detail to be embarrassed. Maybe she forgot to say another marriage. This is the law on the implementation of the current budget. There's a foundation. That this law was in the budget or in the budget came because it was connected. Now you are constantly deceiving the Slovenian public if anyone else is watching this circus, it is that this is a problem of the Compensation Society and that the state has given a guarantee for 50 million. The shares were not sold, and it was good that they were not, for the purpose of this task, the Compensation Society did not have any means of own resources, if I say so, which are intended for other obligations also under law. And since he can't do it, and especially he can't do it at the portfolio value, he has to do it. And you don't want to admit it, you don't want to understand that the guarantee for the obligations already paid is in the past that were not covered by the corresponding revenues. You are acting with the Slovenian Compensation Society on this segment as narrow as it is not a problem of the Republic of Slovenia. All right, that's what's paid for, and let's let those guys take care of it. Of course, the moment you decided to take it. But I would advise you if you thought you'd read that contract, how you handled it, and what's the deal? The Treaty had a long status as a secret document and, of course, also admitted that the Republic of Slovenia was paying the costs for these services, which it was carrying out on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. But you never say how much these costs are, that they've been paid, that they've been shown in the budget, and you're not going in the context you want. This amendment is the one that kind of disarms you in those claims that your suggestions are good, that I don't say anything else, and that we don't want to accept them. In fact, the main purpose of this amendment is to claim that you are again problematic about the correct, legitimate business that started on this segment with the current budget or budget that has been in force since 1 January of this year, but before that force has been questionable. If anyone else in the National Assembly would suggest this, perform and I don't know what you want, it would be understandable, but not you who are successful - and I think it was ok. Otherwise - at the referendum we came up with this solution as it is here. Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot support this amendment from this point of view. Not to think that funds that might go to agriculture are problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u137	I'll open up the application. Mr. Robert Croat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Thanks again for saying that. I must conclude that we have actually begun to banalise the intention of the proposer, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are now problematic only by the source from which we are taking these funds, but the fact is that it was explained a few minutes earlier when Mr Cernač explained why we decided on this item, and this is not disputed. But the fact is, the problems remain. So the problems in agriculture remain and exist. And the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is not so important. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture is more important, and the most important opinion is ours, Members and Members, whether we do it or not. That's why I'm asking. What is the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food on this amendment? I believe [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] Okay, we can call it the government, but I'm asking specifically. [[...]] Here is the Ministry's representative, and I could tell you how she responds to this proposal from our amendment. The fact is, he probably has a slightly different opinion than the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u139	Here you go, ma'am. If you'd like to introduce yourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I'm Sonja Bukovec. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. At this point, we estimate that we will have enough money in rural development, especially because we have sent to the Commission a change in the rural development programme, and in this regard we will get an additional twelve million, both for the broadband internet and for rural development measures. We will also start implementing an operational fisheries programme this year and will then be able to obtain new resources. The question is for direct payments, but the amendment concerns the rural development programme, and we are already negotiating with the Government for direct payments towards the end of this year. We hope to solve this problem with the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u142	I am glad that the predecessor has confirmed my words, because if someone is paying someone a service that he is doing, then it is clear that he is also doing it. So the Court is actually making these payments, thank you, Mr Trofenik, because the state is paying him a commission for this. Mrs Kamnareva does the same as most rulings, and then reads one other part of the release, which is essential. The Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network in Article 3 states, in the first paragraph, that the Republic of Slovenia is a taxpayer for the return of investments and that the recovery of investments is carried out by the Court on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf, not on account, on behalf! Then we have articles 11 and 12 of the Act, which are essential, you are well aware of: with a view to implementing this Act, the Republic of Slovenia has concluded a special contract with which it has brought the sixth thirty-five hundred and eighty-eight shares of Telekom, the shares transferred are a source of funding for the return of investments and the associated costs under this Act. Even more, this law states that if this property is not sufficient, it must not be given liquid assets, but additional real assets. That's what it says in this law that I don't waste my time reading because it doesn't seem right. High officials, for the first time, you know this and, secondly, it is inappropriate for you to mislead us here Members. The Court is obliged to do so, the Court is carrying it out. On May 25th, you yourself on the Finance Committee of the Law on Guarantee to the Court of Justice, for one hundred and eighty million, justified the Court's doing so. And now you're saying you need money in the budget to pay for it. I justify this a little longer because from this fictional item, both in the balance sheet and in the balance, two of us wanted to redistribute funds for other, significantly more important things. Significantly more important things, but here you provide funding from two titles: a billion eighty-fifty million deficits, five billion debt. From two addresses, from the State guarantee the Court provides, and you from the Court's remit - without a legal basis, because Article 3 of this Act is not the basis for you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u143	Mrs. Kamnareva, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The court did it. He was paying for his own resources and therefore he was in a position now because he could not sell his property because he would sell it at a price so that he could no longer service his obligations. I explained this to you on the committee at the time, and that was explained to you many times before, so don't turn your mouth. Second thing. I didn't misquote the law. The law says, "the taxpayer for the return of investments is the Republic of Slovenia." The Court is not the Republic of Slovenia, but is a company 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia. So it's two different things. The law is unconstitutional. I agree with you that in the following articles he speaks differently than in this, but the Court in its books claims the Republic of Slovenia and in November 2008 a contract was signed by the Ministry of Finance which gives interest to the Court for the money by which it pays these obligations. If this is not sufficient proof that this is the kind of relationship that we now want to put on the right footing, then I really don't know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u145	Mrs. Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I must say that in this amendment I can agree that it is not essential from where - of course for whoever proposes such an amendment - it is money, but where it goes. On the other hand, it is important and important to say that where this money is coming from, it is most often at the expense of reducing resources for those people living in rural areas who need funds for their development. In fact, the return of funds to invest in telecommunications is the largest part of this money, says of the 38 million that we have heard how they are structured, what they are intended for, precisely, to know that 38 million euro will be spent from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. You are reducing this €38 million by almost €5 million, it is said that it will run out by the end of the year of €5 million, so that the people living in this rural area, which you want to support in your development, will be the people who want to take their money back. By not knowing exactly where you're taking the money. But it would be very good to say that these are usually the most underdeveloped areas in Slovenia where people had to dig ditches themselves, lay pipes or even cables where they had to pay a contribution because they could get a phone and now that this society and this country have invested money and work because they not only invested in money, but also in their own work, you will now say: This year you will not get your money because we have decided that it is necessary to develop rural areas. God damn it, take him where he is! Maybe not where you take the money, but somewhere else. I think you should ask yourself, what's the point of one pocket in another pocket, and in the end, they're both half empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u147	Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u148	Yes, that's a good question for Mrs. Kamnar. What's the point of putting one pocket in another pocket? For you yourself have admitted that the Court is also doing this today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u149	I understand that no one wants to discuss this amendment again. There are two more amendments under the same user. Subprogramme Operation of services and public institutions. Both amendments were proposed by the SLS Group. No one wants to discuss it. We're done here. We're moving on. User - Ministry of Transport, Sub-programme of Means for the Construction of Motorways. I'll open up the application. Mr. Branko Marinic. Before I say it, this amendment was proposed by the SDS Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. It seems very important to me that today this amendment is being considered on the day that one of the major sections of the highway from Slivnica to Drazenci was placed on the market. What exactly do we want with the amendment's proposal? We want to provide the necessary resources as soon as possible to speed up all procedures and to ensure that the construction of the motorway from Drazenec to Gruškov continues as soon as possible. The reasoning suggests that at this time, until accession and until this 13 - mile [13 km] section, which now remains as a mass, the people, especially those living on this work, will be exposed to the great calamities that have been pronounced and very common in this work. Timely it has been established that these passengers, who travel mainly on weekends and who leave Western Europe towards the south, towards the Adriatic Sea, are somehow getting the most tired of this work. And when they take the highway 800 or up to 1,000 kilometers, they're going to run right into this section, which is a big danger. I am sure that the Minister has also spoken with his colleagues today with representatives of local communities, who have been working all the time to accelerate construction as soon as possible, and that you would even approach some urgent solutions for this interim period that provide greater security for users of people crossing this road, which is extremely dangerous. What did we want with that? I think there's reason enough and reason enough. I do not want to point out that there will be serious traffic accidents at this section in a very short time period, the victims of which were either cyclists or pedestrians, even children, so I would like this amendment to be understood in this regard. What really bothers me, and I ask you nicely, we cannot accept such an explanation as is stated here, because it is not true and obviously because of awkwardness someone misrepresented, namely the explanation says as follows: The Drazenci-Gruškovje project is already financially included in the annual development and renewal plan for 2009 motorways. In 2009, the final implementation of the works on the entire route and on municipal and energy lines will be carried out, but the transfer of traffic is linked to the completion of the links on the Croatian side of the border, the time-limit for surrender depends on the harmonisation of the construction completion deadlines and the transfer to the market between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Given the dynamics of work and funding, there is no need to change resources. I would really ask you politely, this is not a valid explanation, this explanation is prescribed from another part of the highway that is actually being built, but this is the section that is directly within the border area within 600 meters. If you want me to help you with how to withdraw this explanation and replace what will last, I propose this explanation, such as in our proposal: With the proposed amendment, the items from these means of building the Dars motorway, for which the proposal for a rebalancing and so on, should this justification or our explanation be brought here, this would mean that these amendments would be accepted. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, let's try to do something that we can actually do. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if there is a will, there is also a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u152	Yesterday in this Chamber, we listened to the recommendation that we do not attend the opening and the frequent opening of this highway today and devote the money to prepare the documentation in this section for which you are proposing an amendment. I believe that's what we all did today, but look at the cynicism that goes through this amendment. Indeed, the proposaler himself has already said that less than a month ago, we adopted an annual programme of construction, reconstruction and maintenance in this Chamber, and I do not know what other motorways, with financial construction, with hands, with all other things. But the tragedy is that we had to continue what has been happening in recent years - a way of financing the construction and rebuilding of highways. The motorway programme was drawn up in a resolution of the National Programme and in the annual programmes approximately in a way that, with the so-called first petrol toll, later the law that is still in force and by which we are still collecting money that is deliberately collected from the purchase of petrol and lost in the integrated budget, that this money will be allocated to the construction of motorways in about a third. The second third is supposed to be a toll, which is also squandered, given the projections that the revenues will not be nearly as high as they should be. And the third thing, of course, is credit. We have listened here to Mr Bajuk and some others, how wise it is to build 'on the pouf'; and now here are the accounts. See, you say, those loans that you have already brought to this address, should not be paid and should be taken from the liability of the financial implementation of the budget, i.e. domestic debt. Those loans that we had to rent because you removed the source from the budget, now we have to repay the loans, you say, let's not repay the loans. We've heard that before, and let's go there. Twice, three times the amendment is incomprehensible - at least what it is. I believe you had a noble purpose. I have no shame in that. But here is the wrong approach, the wrong concept; one month ago we are discussing something else, today something else, and in every case, we bring together what would please or please anyone. Yes, I remember the debate in the National Assembly, when it fell in 2005, in May 2005, the means for a section of the motorway to be built. You're not gonna believe this! That day, there was a car accident at that unbuilt highway section that was not built yet. There were eight or nine dead that day. Irony, tragedy. And there's nothing to do with populism or anything. I am firmly convinced that in the annual programme although the annual programme adopted in May is questionable because of the implementation of the calls and everything else, but OK, I believe that what is money for projects and all that is needed in this stage where Drazenci-Gruškovje is - that is enough to speed it up. I am also sorry that in 1995, in this hall, which was slightly different, there were very gallant discussions about how the hell we will not work our way to the Hamburg-Istanbul connection, so that I will not say the connection to Croatia. And that the east-west alone will be and, of course, is on its tail, like some other traffic sensitive, problematic directions with the most traffic, with the most accidents and so on. I wholeheartedly support this to be achieved under that joint programme. This part was either unimaginable or not properly written. You can't take it from there since you had to pay back what you already did last year, three years ago. Public debt, as it says here: reduced sub-programme of commitments for the financing and implementation of the budget - domestic debt. Where's the credit? I don't know where, and I don't know where, and I don't know where, and I don't know where. Where else is this domestic debt rather than on the financial market, which they represent - and since we accepted here for 350 million guarantees a month ago, we do not know how much and so on last year. From this title, if I have read correctly in the media, Dars has committed himself to the financial market - I think that with NLB, Abanki and I don't know where else, or just on the capital market.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u153	Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. There'll be no misunderstanding. I will not repeat what colleague Anderlič said, although I fully agree with that, but this road is not ready, unfortunately, I support all efforts to make this anomaly, because it is more than an anomaly, that in this direction, which was one of the few where it would be possible to build really after the concession, by the concession system, if we decided to do so in a timely manner. But it is true that there is another road nearby that joins there, where the contract has been signed for eight years, and with torment, it is the building itself. To avoid misunderstandings, this amendment again illustrates some of the claims that do not have a real basis from today's debate. You mean, like me, because I'm just from that end, the purpose is liked at first sight, justifiable, but impossible, because it's not even in the old location plan. I guess the location plan won't cost 11 million euros! That's one side. The other is where we take it. We are taking on an item that represents the practically fixed cost of the state budget. If we take on an item that is kind of a priority that needs to be provided, unless we extend it, and I return to what is here, I hope that my colleague Vizjak, who is not here - and that does not bother me - will not misunderstand: he illustrates his request to the government to submit a projection of the return of public debt. If we followed this amendment, this would only make it worse if a certain amount of public debt were to be reprogrammed and the payment continued to go away, it would be objectively and realistically necessary several times. Let me get this straight. I support efforts to build this section, which is long-standing and should be built in front of many others in Slovenia, but this is not a solution or recipe, because this year practically, apart from the preparation of a spatial plan, there is nothing else to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u155	I conclude the debate. Would you like a word with me, Mr. Vlačič? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u156	Just for a little while, maybe about this amendment. Now, this section is not yet spatially regulated, we are just going to adopt a state spatial plan that will allow this construction at all, so this thing is not acceptable in this sense. I would just like to say again why we actually reduced these funds, which Mr Anderlič had previously talked about, because in fact they were defined in the law, there was once a gas toll that was poured into the budget, and then through budgetary financing the construction of highways was used as one of the sources, as stated in 150, 160, 170 million annually, and was one of the main sources of financing for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia until the mandate of your government. You then cut it down, there were more reasons, you mentioned something, probably there was also a good time to get money, it was cheap at home. Well, today the situation is such that when the budget fell, it was necessary to transfer these funds to state roads. We, because we have reduced this mandatory budget for the construction of motorways, have not reduced highway programmes, but we have maintained programmes for the renewal of state highways, which are equally important. Our highways are in principle good and the highway is nearing the site, and the state roads, which we have 6,000 kilometers, are in relatively poor condition, only need to be maintained. This was the main reason why we had to provide funds to rebuild state roads somehow by reducing the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this amendment. Continue, user - Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia road, sub-programmes Investment maintenance and construction of state roads, proposed Transport Committee, amendment. Mr. Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u158	It is true that the government has just said that none of the amendments will be confirmed. Okay. It is true that the legitimate and legitimate right of Members and Members to debate them. It is true that it is good to discuss properly and substantively. What I am about to say to the user 2415 - The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads is a great deal of negligence, a high level of negligence of the mother's working body and the National Assembly. Two days ago, colleagues and colleagues, two days ago, some Members and Members were sitting on the home working body, called the Finance Committee, on which I personally asked what content it meant, listen well;, with the user 2415 - Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, within the scope of consumption 13, Transport, transport infrastructure and communication, within the framework of the main programme 1302 - Road transport and infrastructure - I would ask if you could listen if you have a debate circle, but go out - on this page and bother me. [[...]] If we're going to the National Assembly and we're going to get some content, let's go. The Debate Circle could be out there. There's plenty of room. I mean, we've been here for eight, nine days after eighteen hours, at least the ones we are, and at least we're worth listening to each other. We have two ears to listen to more than we talk about. Take care of things, here, blah blah blah blah I mean, crazy! [[...]] In short, tell me, for the first time, I asked who are they redistributing? [[...]] It reads: "and transfers of funds amounting to 50,000 euro". Who? Every amendment says you give someone, you take someone. You take someone else from this amendment. Who? When? How and why? Of course, it seems to those, the committee, that little bit like that, yeah, we just wrote. [[...]] But to at least listen two days ago, we sat until midnight, nomotech errors. A return home loan shall be used twice. And that's bullshit and negligence. "In the case of a road user, it shall be carried over within the area of consumption..." Twice back home loan! To at least listen on this committee to a substantive question, like three monkeys, the tower: I can't see, I can't hear, I can't speak. At least so we can get the nomotech repairs. This is negligence for the National Assembly, where we spend thousands and thousands of euros on our salaries and our work so that such negligence can happen! Even today, I don't know what this amendment means - where, to whom, to whom, to how, and why is 50,000 euros being redeployed? Is it possible that 50,000 euros can be transferred to someone's pocket and they don't want to write? This amendment is, in my opinion, according to everyone else, where you give something to someone and you have to take something away from someone in parallel, even unconstant, unjust, inexplicable, inexplicable, nomotechnically weak, linguistically incorrect. Yeah, let's go to the National Assembly, damn it! If anyone's doing anything, do it for the money he makes, fair and good. I now expect an answer to what this means that "in the case of user 2.415, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, within the scope of spending 13, transport, transport infrastructure and communication, under the main programme 1.302, Road transport and infrastructure, under sub-programme 1.302, 2.404, Investment maintenance and construction of state roads," twice the return home loan, "distribute funds of EUR 50 000 [[Rapporteur 85, page 72]] ".." Who, when, why, where do we take, where do we put it?Oh, my God! Or who put it in his pocket? Damn it, come on! I mean, now we're just like kindergarten: kids fight for toys all day long, everybody's happy because they've got their own. I ask for an answer as to whether this amendment is consistent and what it means. For it is written in this way, why it is not written, to whom it is given, and to whom it is taken. If there is no answer, it is a shame that this happened again when we, once again, colleagues and colleagues were also 16, 17 hours ago at work and sat until midnight in the big hall of Tomšič and addressed these amendments. And if, then, with all the workers who write these magnetograms that are the poorest, someone from the parental committee who is the proposer, at least read what those poor girls write there all day to at least fix it, it's a shame for the National Assembly, a shame for the committee and a shame for all of us!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u159	Mr. Barovich, I'd like you to calm down. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Barovich, I need to get some ashes on my own in this place. There has been an intervention. It's a road through the Podvince. This is a connecting road with Ptuj over Podvince, which only connects Ptuj with Gornja Radgona and Murska Sobota and was essentially by the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate of Roads in the plan to renovate it, but then this item was somehow no longer in the balance. It was then quickly accepted to try to put the item in the balance sheet in some way, so that this project would not stop so that the tenders would not fall, it is said that at least the minimum resources would be provided to enable the project to move forward. But after today’s conversation, it is not necessary to accept this. It is likely that this has also led to the surface being prepared in this way, because funds will be found in a different way and the project can then continue. However, it is certainly not a matter of purposeful or whatever, but it is only an intervention by the local community that we need some financial means so that the road can be rebuilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I was warned that the explanation of the amendment indicated where these funds would go, but I did not check. That's how they let me know. As I do not see any more reported to discuss this amendment, we continue to do so. User Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment, Sub-programme "Investment activities on railway infrastructure". [[Ad in the background.]] Excuse me? I don't know. I haven't said a word yet. The proposal shall be submitted by the SDS Group of Members. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. With this balance and this amendment, we are actually correcting the value that was first in Balance 1 adopted by the National Assembly and prepared by the Government. So, with this amendment, we're only returning the funds that were planned in Balance 1 for investments in rail infrastructure, and then they fell out. Now, with this amendment, we propose that these funds for the implementation of projects on the V. and X. railway corridors be implemented in their entirety and content. I understand there's a little pain. €60 million is less for transport infrastructure, for road and rail, in this balance with respect to the first balance. And I believe that in this room, at this point, it is most difficult for the Minister of Transport, because he had to "eat" those 60 million, but he himself said in a press conference a sentence that went very on the air and we all remembered him well: "We are accelerating the delay. And especially in the field of rail infrastructure." And with this amendment, we give this opportunity. No matter all the explanations we've heard. Audit of public procurement procedures, problems in public procurement, placement of investments in space. In short, these are all the reasons that will always be, but it is always possible to produce project and other documentation, press projects, accelerate delays, only - without money is not possible. Colleagues and colleagues. I believe if there's a Minister of Transport, he'll back me up here. Let's really speed up the delay and put these funds back in order to really start investing in rail infrastructure, because if those words didn't come out a little bit blank. In particular, on the figures, this implementation of the promotion of projects in the field of the implementation of investments in railway infrastructure is indeed well known on the items. I therefore propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'd be happy to support this amendment if we could spend this money this year. Now, the problem is, you know, because you've been to this department. Because these problems are described here, which make it impossible for us to use this money this year, this moment is already in inter-departmental coordination a change in spatial legislation for line infrastructure projects that will allow faster installation of infrastructure facilities into space. That's the first thing. Second thing. You probably know the problems on the lower leg of the highway, where we now have two ownership problems, where decommissioning has been going on for a very long time, so that the proposal for amendments to the law to regulate decommissioning is just ahead of inter-resor coordination. And the third part is changes in public procurement and auditing. In the following year, this change can lead to a faster use of railway infrastructure resources. Then know that I will fight for funds to invest in rail infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u165	Thank you. I conclude the debate on this amendment. We're moving on. User: Ministry of Environment and Space. We have two subroutines. The first sub-programme has two amendments - improving the state of the environment, sub-programme. First Amendment - Group of Members of Anderlich, Rojej and Rop. Second, the SDS Group of Members. Report. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I will talk about the second amendment that we have tabled in the SDS in the field of environmental protection and natural heritage. Here is now a school example of the claim that I have already stated in the introduction that this rebalance is not really developmental, that many important investments are shrinking, and that where this would be unnecessary. In particular, in this programme is a sub-programme in New Town for cleaning equipment, namely the drainage and treatment of waste water in the river Krka. In last August, all the documentation submitted to the Ministry of the Environment was prepared, where it was deliberately delayed. It's just that these procedures, that then the money goes too long, they don't want to process that documentation the way it is, and they don't want to do it now. In the first rebalancing, it was intended to build this cleaning plant another EUR 2 million, plus a local community contribution of almost a million and a half, now these funds are reduced to only EUR 360 or 39,000. And to make the irony even more ironic, it should also be stressed that the regulation of the Republic of Slovenia provides that it must be by 31. 12. 2010 cleaning plant or cleaning plant of such capacity also in use. And these funds, after we looked at them in the NRP, would still somehow understand that they would have been extended to 2010 and have been overrun in 2011. This is unacceptable, and we have also proposed that these funds should be maintained at the amount as they were, and that they ensure that this year an extremely important cleaning plant will be built for that environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u167	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm going to talk about two amendments under 1 and number 3, because it's the same purpose, taking it to the same place to a large extent. I hope you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u169	I didn't quite get it. We're talking about two amendments. One amendment is your Group of Members, the other Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u170	On these two environmental improvements, I must say that most of the time I will devote to amendment number 3, it is unacceptable and interference with the system of Slovenian defence, the Slovenian Army, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u171	Mr Jerovšek, we are not yet discussing this sub-programme. I'll give you my word. So we don't interfere, please. Mr. Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. The debate will refer to the amendment under order number 1. Next, I give up the following sub-programme so that there will be no complication, like my colleague Jerovšek, because this is about the same content. Where'd you get the idea, or where's the reason for these amendments? I think it's a matter that illustrates a situation in the area of local community funding. So I'm sorry that my contribution will be a little longer, but there will be a little more numbers, without the intention of abusing a number. In 11 Slovene municipalities, 34.2% of the population lives in Slovenia. In municipalities where administrative units are established, since this is an old category, there are slightly more inhabitants, 34.8% of the population in Slovenia, and in other municipalities 31% of the population live in the third group. The old funding system, which expired 31. 12. 2006 is the legal measure, the so-called appropriate consumption, allocated 33.1% of the resources needed to the municipalities, according to 1 percent in the structure of less than the structural share of the population. New system in force from 1. 1. 2007 and only 29.5% as a measure of how much it would be necessary to carry out constitutional and legal tasks. The other group of municipalities, where the administrative units are usually located in these municipalities, but are not municipalities, the old system earmarked 35.9% of the funds needed for this purpose in Slovenia and the new system, surprisingly, up to a tenth of the same percentage. For the rest of the third group, the old system considered 31% of the population to be suitable for 31% of the total amount of appropriate consumption and 34.6 for the new system. On the basis of the measurement of the necessary resources for the performance of the statutory and constitutional tasks of the Slovenian local community, the new system identified or assigned 3.6% of the structural points to the municipalities, there were no changes in the second group, and the 3.6 minus in urban areas was devoted to the training group. But that's not all. Then there was revenue or income distribution in these three groups. According to the old law, the city had 37.4% of available resources, the second group 32.7 and the third group 29.9 - old. According to the new city municipalities have fallen by 5.4 structural points, from 37.4 to 32 - regardless of 34% of the population. The second group grew from 32.7 to 34.9 or by 2.2%, and the third group grew from 29.9 to 33.1 in 2007. Whether the movement or transfer is conscious in the range of 5.4% of the available resources has been distributed to the detriment of the municipalities in the other two groups and most to the third group. Of course, Ljubljana is also in the first group of municipalities. According to the old system, Ljubljana was recognised "per capita" slightly less than 100% of the Slovenian average or 0.98, on three decimals of 988. The new system reduced this by 15.7% and the capital and municipality of Ljubljana recognised only 0.833 or 15.7% less than the average. This appeared in absolute figures in 2007: if it were an old system, Ljubljana would fall under the legal provision of 35% of income, 126 million and several euros. The new system has eliminated the share of the income and, in some way, part of the state budget still shares the grant, which is called the principal, but this has only brought the poor 96 million; or in the first start-up year, Ljubljana received less than 30 million euros from one system to another. On the side of realised or planned revenue, because income can only be converted into a new situation. Of course, realised or actual revenues need to be separated from the appropriate consumption rate, where, of course, the facts are the same as at the previously mentioned coefficient, which decreased by 15.7%. If the old system has admitted to Ljubljana that it needs 122.8 million euros, the new system has granted Ljubljana only 103 million more. This proves that Ljubljana is indisputable in the new system, not only in the new system, but in particular in the scope of the tasks arising from the Constitution, the laws, and some also from unresolved relations in finance, especially in the field of culture and something else - now is not the time for a wider debate - affected. It has to be fair to say that the old system has not been able to properly measure the necessary costs of Ljubljana and other municipalities and others, in particular those who are and still carry out public tasks of wider importance, and therefore do not receive sufficient and necessary resources. Nevertheless, if we were to move this little across the border and try to compare ourselves with Austria, although I am aware and must be honest that comparisons with other countries are, of course, to some extent problematic, because there is always a need to compare available resources and competences, not only one way or another, but nevertheless. In Austria, a city with 50 or more thousand inhabitants has two whole five per capita per capita available more than the average or baseline for the lowest group of local communities. In Slovenia, however, the capital has the least recognised pericapita from all municipalities, an anomaly that has not supported any serious criticism and has long required correction. It is, of course, necessary to correct that the figures appearing in public on a number of occasions also by the representatives of the municipal municipality are partly incorrect because they result from the difference between realised revenues if the old law were applicable or planned and realised under the old law. In doing so, it is necessary to know that the old system was to some extent incorrect, because Ljubljana provided more revenue than was determined or measured on a uniform basis. These are two different concepts and this does not diminish or annul the fact that Ljubljana is disadvantaged, that other municipalities are deprived of them and that all those local communities in Slovenia that carry out tasks of wider importance are deprived of them. This is a fundamental reason to come up with ideas for such an amendment as one of the two amendments. And I think there are two more amendments. I will not support this amendment, despite these arguments, because, of course, by means of amendments such or similar content, it is unacceptable to try, at least visually and by force, to reduce the problem of Ljubljana, it is unacceptable, it does not even belong to our system, anywhere else. There would be some kind of silence to start solving other open problems in this area that require quick, effective legal intervention and a solution. Moreover, something else is important from the criterion or the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The local communities or the state must enable them to have sufficient but dedicated resources. Freedom to decide on purposeful consumption must, of course, be a responsibility in the local community. Not that it is, to some extent, hybrid or, to say the least, incomplete or poor part of our system, currently valid, which directs 4% of the appropriate consumption to the country's controlled investment in local communities. This has all come true. And not in terms of providing additional funds for investments, but without individual ministries deciding whether an investment proposal in a municipality is good or bad, of course the need in the local community is a sufficient measure of responsibility. Once again, the amendment is a logical consequence of the situation in which certain congregations are located. With the capital at the helm of the third year, this situation requires rapid action, but with the amendment as proposed and some others, this cannot be resolved. And because I predicted I wouldn't come forward again, another sentence or two. For the sake of clarifying this issue, now that this is becoming more and more urgent, so for those who are affected, those responsible for this removal of this anomaly, and for many there is one wrong thought or view that it is necessary or that it is possible to solve the problem of inadequate funding or if you want Ljubljana's sub-financing by the capital law. That's not true. That's easy. Part, only a small part of the problems posed by the inadequate financing of Ljubljana stems from the role played by the administration of the Authority, this is the capital. Most, and this large majority of the problem or defect is due to inadequate funding from local communities, in particular urban and other municipalities, which carry out public tasks of wider importance. If there's no misunderstanding, I won't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u174	Respectable. I thank Mr Trofenic for this really thorough view of the underlying problem and also of what he has shown, in fact, the reasons for where the idea of such an amendment is based. Of course, I do not agree with the last part where he says that this is not possible and so on, both with the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government and Parliament and with those involved in financial matters in this country, it is possible to do so, it is permissible and, of course, a matter of will. It is understandable that I am discussing that part of the amended amendment, because the first one, which was tabled by 17 Members and Members, is no longer available. It took 14 signatures and brought ambitions to those sources and to the direction of money where they were supposed to spend it. Even if that amendment was checked, it's all the more so. I am pleased that we are in the SDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party and we have found that the same resources are actually available and that these sub-programmes can also make these changes. We're going to go or we're not going to What has been said about the funding of municipalities, about some things that have been shown through a marked anti-urban policy over the past years, as if we do not all need Ljubljana as capital, could also be another place. It is as if all citizens and citizens of this country do not benefit those common institutions and all that they hold as such, of course as special tasks. On the other hand, of course, some of the benefits of being the capital, but still. The information that some countries, especially Austria, have been exposed here, is that they have criteria for urban municipalities. For it is probably not disputed here that those of Ljubljana forward, as well as some other congregations, who have been affected by changes in the law, even though he may have been unjust in many ways, in many things. But yet, as radically and as brutally as it intervened with the amendment to the 2006 Act, which entered into force 1. 1. 2007 has caused inadvertent problems in Ljubljana, and it is right that the National Assembly would also be aware of this. Never since I am here, but it is not such a short time, Ljubljana and I have never engaged in the way that it is a capital, that it is also part of local self-government. Yes, we have adopted a law that has not brought any practical realization, it is empty until it has either concluded contracts with the State or defined resources. It is a pity, because it would actually be better, both for Ljubljana and for all other parts of Slovenia, for all citizens and citizens. It is not true that the euro going to Ljubljana is all about this infrastructure and all that it is intended for others and not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. When we look from where and where we are talking about housing, we don't have to prove to you, I don't know, we have everything written down, you can look, Ljubljana is far fed according to the possibility of accessing young people or all those who want to get to an apartment in relation to other municipalities, several times. A few times. Look at the numbers and you will see how you can get to Ljubljana or anywhere else to the apartment and you will see these differences. We think that we could sort these things out, and it's also about that, but I'm talking about the next amendment in part, and then I'm not going to advertise, because I'm going to end up with this chapter. And, of course, not just the residential part, even the part where it comes to water when it comes to utilities. Now, however, Ljubljana is dealing with some problems like all other municipalities. But you probably believe that the municipal infrastructure in Ljubljana is a few times or a few times more expensive when it comes to construction. Therefore, because of the loss of funds, it is probably not possible for all things to be arranged as planned. When it comes to where to get it, where it is. And here I agree with the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the same item, the same source, which I think is nothing, of course I believe that no amendment will be adopted in the end, so there will be no problems, but I am sure that it is necessary to discuss this and at least, I want to demarcate you, given what you three, four or five previously said about a machine and so on. I don't know what, it just doesn't apply to me. I have not promised anyone that if this option comes into power, although it has received the highest percentage in Ljubljana, it is actually necessary to look at what is actually going on in this area, and obviously there are some problems. I am sure that this will stimulate the debate on whether we need Ljubljana as the capital, as well as those municipalities, as I said before, and that such a phrase is very appropriate to put an end to anti-urban policy. It is mainly when things have changed after the elections, but there will have to be some acceleration to actually prove it and something will happen in Ljubljana and other urban areas. That's where investments are made, just like all over the place. It's a matter of common ground. I believe that several more common things are available and are needed in Ljubljana than they are in Maribor, Celje, Slovenia Castle and so on, and they are also there because they are regional centres because they are urban centres and so on. But in fact, Ljubljanans must have the same rights when it comes to local self-government and the exercise of this right as any member of any municipality anywhere in Slovenia. I have heard a lot in recent years about how injustice is done, because it is too much in Ljubljana, because I do not know what it is, and that more coherent regional development needs to be advocated. No dilemmas. For all the laws, for all the support provided through the country's policies, I voted through the financial plans and so on in this assembly. But the time has come when, at least from now on, it is necessary to provide Ljubljana with the same conditions as others if it is not to fix or return what has been unjustifiably taken away. It was in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government. "It's all right." This isn't about what's going on right now and how, but it's about a political decision about how someone looks at things. [[Ad in the background.]] I'm not gonna cut anything short. I've got 24 minutes and 42 seconds. If I don't stop, my colleagues won't be able to. And you certainly won't be able to do that, Mr. Tanko, you have your time, and I believe you'll take advantage of it. Where do you want it from? There has been a lot of debate in recent days about whether or not it is true, and I am also reading today large headlines on how to equip the Slovenian Army, how it will be with the money for defence. Believe that 6% of the supply and purchase of equipment does not mean anything in this structure. All the contracts already concluded will be implemented in a way - whether it will be from this item, where, or as always, the obligations of the State under those items have been paid; Mrs Kamnareva can explain this better. But, as it is said, there is no need to answer, because I know that this amendment will not receive support, because those who withdraw the signatures will not vote, and I do not expect others to. We started the discussion and I hope because some of the statements on the committees were: Leave it now, don't do it, we'll make the law, we'll make another law. I will try to act this way, even though there is one saying, but I will not mention it here. Recently, however, I am concerned about one statement or in the media, thank God, there are finally enough people on the labour market who are interested in working in the Slovenian Army. I think it would be a catastrophic mistake for this country if, at a time when productive jobs are closing down, when the number of those who are employed and paying taxes is falling and, of course, the state budget is being fueled, and then the budget under this heading is being reduced, and we will be working in the public sector to resolve social policy. I don't think that's acceptable. It is necessary to open the debate - how much this country can do, how much it can do for these purposes. I've been looking at the comparisons of 27 countries today. We're in the lower part. From 0.8% of Luxembourg, which is the richest, I think it has 65 or 67,000 euros per capita, up to 3.2 United States. We know what kind of country this is, which is a global cop, and it actually develops and powers that part of it. I also think there's going to be another discussion about where we are. Because those who have casino concession money are incomparable congregations with others and it is so unfair because they get significantly more, substantially more.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u175	If you could please discuss, not from the bench. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u176	Calm them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u177	Mr. Anderlich, you're right. You've been challenged.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u178	Man's in a hurry to get home [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u179	You're right. You've been challenged.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u180	The man's in a hurry to get home because he's got a job in Nova Gorica in the morning. That's the last time he mentioned it here. It's really not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u181	Mr. Anderlich, more than I told you that you were challenged.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u182	Tell him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u183	I cannot say, and I ask you to continue with the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u184	Tell him to keep it quiet. I'll be done. I believe that this anti-urban policy is still present and that we will not get through it quickly, but that it will be what is about to happen. I believe, as it is said, that the arguments and even as the amended amendment has been made are sustainable. If he's not supported and he's not supported, that's fine. I do not think that it is possible after what happened after the changes on the part of the signatories, that this will happen, but, of course, I wanted this to be heard and that it might contribute to further planning for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Just to say, when I took the lead, I was informed that we were to speak in the field of users of the Ministry of Environment and Space on Amendments 1 and 2, a sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. All of us who have followed the debate have probably found that, due to the substantive linkage, we have also extended the debate to a sub-programme to promote housing, which is at least linked to Ljubljana's funding system and issues. I ask that we do not object to this and, even in the future, we are having a debate after all three amendments, which fall under the user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Mr Jerovšek and Mr Grill have now applied. They signed up for the Secretary of Defense, Minister of Finance. When these four panellists are finished, I will reopen the application, because I can see that he wants to report them to the debate on these amendments. Is he okay? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. With these two amendments and where they want to take them and where they need to be seen in the context of the amendment that was tabled before the time and signed by 17 Members, including the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and unfortunately also the President of the National Assembly, it is necessary to make it very precise and very clear why not. It's not anti-urban policy. The Ljubljana Municipality is far from the richest and with such arguments itc does not come here. However, it is either an unconcealed or poorly disguised attack on the Slovenian state, for the attempt to dismantle the Slovenian Armed Forces - I agree with the Minister who also speaks - and for the financing of the real estate mafia in Ljubljana, for the support of the financial lobby, the financial oligarchy, this is all connected in Ljubljana, it is mainly a Serbian connection and Balkan ties and it is openly supporting all of this. It's scary stuff, and it's obvious right away at the beginning. These are things that have already taken place in this country before they were established. Even then, actors from the same parties, who are today all three signatories, signed a declaration of peace that disarmed the Slovenian territorial defence in order to prevent independence. Today it is the disassembly of the Slovenian Defence Forces, with the ultimate aim of harming the country, abolishing this country, literally. This is how they do things, destroying the state, coup d'état, etc. And it's very clear to say that. It's not a proponent for cannons, but they think they're signing up for butter. No, no, no. In this initial amendment, it has been made very clear that about 800 dwellings that are built, which need to be bought out, because now this real estate mafia is in several countries, because it is a crisis and they do not collect them, and it is necessary to take the resources directly from the state budget and pay this, these commitments, which are not Slovenian, mostly, unfortunately, are not Slovenian, and so inconceivable attempts and indications as to what this is all about, I have not yet experienced in thirteen years of cooperation in this Parliament. Actually, I'm glad it came in such an explicit way. And it is sad and tragic that such important Members, such important coalition party officials, have signed the original amendment. They acted like they didn't know what it was. This is exactly what this is about, and I'm sure they've entered, which I believe is that so much political maturity in this country is, I'm sure the Minister has threatened to resign if that happens. I'm sure this simply patriotic patriot has to do it. And I'm sure I don't have information, but I'm sure and, of course, it's some warm-headed sobering temporarily, but it's going, ladies and gentlemen, to conspire against the Slovenian State, to sabotage and these are very dangerous acts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u187	Mr Jerovšek, I do not interrupt you under, but in spite of everything, take a little care of your choice of words. When you're talking about individuals, I'm not saying anything, I'm not objecting to you, I'm judging you, I'm just saying it's a conspiracy against a Slovenian country, but it's a little too bad. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u188	I insist that it's who's the main actor back there, I don't know, but that's how they're conspiring against their own country. On the Defence Committee, the Minister is very clear and dramatic, so dramatic that I said then that if she said that she would say that she would close the session so that it would not go abroad. This harms the country, but I do not condemn the Minister, condemning those who have used this to further violate Slovenian defence forces, abandoning Slovenian troops on missions to be in danger of not being secured, to reduce their security, to receive more soldiers back in baptisms to Slovenia. It's all behind these amendments and beyond. And I suggest that those who have sobered themselves apologize to the Slovenian people at this moment for not going forward with this affair. Not to show outside that we have such irresponsible people who are trying to destroy Slovenian defence power, the Slovenian army and consequently the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, you wanted procedural? A debate? Then the Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusic has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear High Council! I would like to explain why the Government, as well as the Ministry of Defence, cannot accept these two amendments, namely the amendment number 1 relating to improving the state of the environment and wants to take EUR 3 million out of the sub-programme for the provision of arms and infrastructure capacity, and the other programme, which is mentioned in the area of spatial planning and housing utilities, is therefore intended to promote housing, and this amendment for EUR 25 million should go into the account of providing arms and infrastructure capacity. I must say that the first and second rebalancing has seen a very large reduction in the resources allocated to the Slovenian military in the area of arms and infrastructure capacity issues. I think it's also right that you know what we've already reduced on behalf of the government on this item. In fact, we have greatly reduced funds for the acquisition of SKOV 8x8, we have reduced funds for electronic equipment, for the maintenance of military infrastructure, this means that we will not restore troops, we have reduced funds for RKB equipment, we have reduced funds for a multi-purpose patrol ship, we have deleted funds for logistics supplies, we have deleted some of the resources for various engineering equipment. At this point, it might be right to tell you that with the help of engineering units and engineering equipment today we have turned over a bridge that will help citizens and citizens of the municipality of Lithium in Jevnica to reach their locals in Zgornji Jevnica. In fact, it is a bridge built by the Slovenian Army, which is designed to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. You probably know that on 10 July the bridge was taken away and in six days we, together with the local community and the system of protection and rescue and the Slovenian Army, built a new bridge for citizens to travel. I would like to say that it would not be good to let any of you or our citizens know that there are no more funds for such bridges in the future, that there are no more resources for engineering equipment to help people when they are affected by different natural disasters and that there are no more resources for them when they have to rebuild one of their roads. It's always these bridges that are used. We had to reduce means for transport vehicles, we reduced funds for medical equipment. I hope that you know that this is medical equipment for Manoeuvring Hospital Role 2 where this year's approval will have to be achieved by the end of this year within the framework of NATO, which means that since then this hospital will be available for public health in Slovenia. We've reduced the means to buy ammunition, we've reduced the funds for uniforms. Earlier, speeches on so-called productive jobs and the need for the resources available to this state budget to be used for productive jobs and not for military jobs. Each of us has a right to his own opinion on this, but I must say that the defence budget at this time has allocated 5 million resources for a tailoring contract in Mura, which means that this money will go to the maintenance of so-called productive jobs. We have reduced funds for the technical protection of Slovenian Armed Forces facilities, reduced the adjustment of the Slovenian Armed Forces professionalization infrastructure, reduced funds for the construction and reconstruction of military facilities. I must say that some municipalities would very much like to see new military barracks being built in their environment, but unfortunately we must say that we cannot start building at this time with such a mutilated budget in the area of infrastructure capacity of new military stations. We have reduced funds to revitalize the airport of Cerklje and have reduced the co-financing of local infrastructure in some municipalities. After all this list, you will understand that it is not possible to support amendments that speak of the need to co-finance or further reduce resources in the area of the provision of arms and infrastructure capacity. I'd like to give you another piece of information that you're right to know. If anyone would like to promote housing at the expense of the defence budget, it seems good to know that at this point the Ministry of Defence is transferring 484 empty apartments to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. And these empty apartments are distributed throughout Slovenia and are, as defence funds are always intended for the whole country, also for all our citizens and citizens who need them. I do not think it is right that defence budget funds should apply only to some of the narrower regional interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Anderlich asked for a replica, then you have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u192	Madam Minister, you can trust me that for all the budgets, for all the items, I voted unconditionally in this National Assembly for all TRPs from the beginning. This country grew, developed, and was in an ever-increasing condition. We have come at a time when it is necessary to share the fate of all citizens and citizens and of all programmes. I'm certainly on to ensure what's in the programs. After four years of gold years, the number of armies was 7,000, which is the capacity that Slovenia can. This is my firm belief that it is very unusual at this moment to be employed only in this sector. My opinion is that we should sit here and say that this country can do as much as it can, because it can also compare countries, others; it is not true that, for the time being, the commitment of 8,500 plus the contractual reserve is up to 14 or as much as it already is; the comparable countries also have fewer. But it's a matter of different opinions. This item we're taking from doesn't talk about Ponton Bridges, don't talk about this supply. Even when it is said that we must have a plane, we must have medium armoured vehicles and so on. If it isn't, they're gone. And that's my thinking. We'll probably discuss this further. You'd be right to. And I'm not gonna be calling myself back, either, unless I'm being challenged, because I've done what I've done. The purpose was to make it clear that what was being done was not right. And this has nothing to do with this even coverage of Slovenia and this is not the case at the Ministry of Defence. Far from it. It is true, however, that there is the greatest amount of money there and, of course, for purposes some might choose in better times. That's how those in Spain do it, that's how those in Germany do it, and elsewhere. It's different with us. Mr. Jerovšek, that's all you need. With this stockpiling, you will not convince us that you are the one who advocates patriotism and so on. You stand for those who are bound to participate in everything that's going on in the procurement sector and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u193	[[...]] [[Not included.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] Minister of Finance, Dr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, Minister, Ministers. So we are discussing all three amendments tabled by the Group of Members. With regard to the first amendment relating to the improvement of the environment, we respond that the gradual elimination of the old burdens of waste management under the national environmental protection programme is one of the priorities, and the Government estimates that the amount of resources provided under that sub-programme in the budget rebalancing is high enough to carry out all the planned activities on projects for which project investment and project other documentation has already been prepared to adapt to the new stricter requirements in this area. At the same time, resources under sub-programme 07021905 from the military budget are intended for emergency equipment and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The scope of these funds has already been reduced by more than a quarter by the proposal for a rebalancing, and the resources available are barely sufficient to meet the contractual obligations already undertaken with regard to the implementation of the Basic Development Programmes Act and the necessary purchases for the current needs of the Slovenian Army. In the second amendment, which was less said today, the Government estimates that the amount of resources provided in the budget rebalancing in the sub-programme relating to projects, the comprehensive protection of the Ptujskog field groundwater, the first and second phases, the separation and cleaning of waste water in the river Krka and the construction of the waste management centre Celje, the first and second phases, is sufficient to carry out all the planned activities, in accordance with the envisaged funding dynamics of projects financed by the European Union. The investment obligations in the public telecommunications network, which the applicant is trying to reduce, have been included in the balance sheet on the basis of the opinion of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and are planned at the level of the expected commitments for 2009. Their downgrading is not possible without further increasing public debt. Finally, the third is that the State is, through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a separate legal person of public law and acting in the interest of the State. In the area of the whole country, it takes care of business policy and finances and implements the national housing programme adopted, encourages housing, renovation of housing and housing. Thus, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has invested, inter alia, in the construction of apartments and building plots, promoting different forms of provision of own and rented apartments. In recent years, the State has allocated additional resources to ensure the implementation of social housing policy. Finally, with the 2008 budget rebalancing, it provided an additional EUR 5 million. The newly mentioned recapitalisation was due to the intensive response of the municipalities to the call for co-financing and credit for the construction of non-profit rental apartments, which was adopted at the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Housing Fund in December 2007. At the same time, item 07021905 of the military budget does not allow further reductions without jeopardising the development of the Slovenian Army and the defence power of our country. Therefore, the Government proposes that all three amendments be rejected or not endorsed by the esteemed High Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I'm opening time for applications. [[Ad in the background.]] Mr. Jerovšek, you will apply. I open time for applications to discuss all three amendments to the user Ministry of Environment and Space. Please sign up. The first one has the word of Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to talk about the third amendment, even though this is the first amendment to the Sub-programme Promoting Housing. I must say that, as a Member of Ljubljana, I have definitely signed the amendment, although I was quite aware at the time of my signature that he probably will not have a chance of success, especially since the coalition is not harmonised. At the time of the rebalancing of the balance, probably no government would support such action, not Ropova or Janšev and now not Pahoreva, unless it is coordinated in one way or another. This amendment, although technically flawed, is good. It is good for this reason because, at the time these apartments are on the market, it is actually possible to get these apartments at a reasonable price. It is also good because, although it was intended, let's say, Ljubljana, the biggest demanders for apartments in Ljubljana are those who have usually moved to Ljubljana from other areas, so that it cannot be seen from this point of view. However, the fact is that this amendment did not receive support, so I withdrew my signature as a responsible member of the coalition and, after all, with a certain position in this assembly. But why did I sign it? I signed it for a symbolic effect. And I have to admit, I was aware of that even when I signed it. The old Members, my colleagues from the previous period, particularly the opposition Members, know that I have fought strongly against anti-urban politics for all four years. I am pleased that this concept has been given the homeland right in the National Assembly, and I hope that it will also be lost in the National Assembly. I fought against the anti-urban policy of the former government. Of course, anti-urban policy is not only that some cities have lost their financial resources or decreased, although Ljubljana is the largest among them and these funds, as colleagues Trofenik said earlier, are really large, which has lost them. Anti-urban policy is something more terrible, it is something more terrible and it is that they think that some or the then coalition simply believed that we can develop, that we will have a strong and "pushing" rural area only if we have weak cities. On the contrary, it's true. Only if they have strong cities, flourishing cities, will we have a strong rural area, we will have strong, influential areas where urban, plural, polarity intertwines and develop. That is why politics, which has bet on weak cities, is the wrong policy and, of course, this policy has hit Ljubljana the most for ideological reasons, and I will not talk about it because it is not necessary, and it has, of course, hit some of the points that are most important and one of these is also the problem of housing. It is important to question Minister Križanič. Even in our coalition programme and in our client programmes, it is said that we have to go completely differently in urban settings, not just in Ljubljana, so that we do not accidentally think. And that it is in fact necessary to ensure and give emphasis to construction and, of course, to urbanes, i.e. to non-profit dwellings. It's very nice and very good that the Ministry of Defense has released these 400 apartments. However, from this point of view, from the point of view of urban policy, of course, it does not mean that these apartments are released somewhere where the population pressure is, in fact, low. However, I will say that my signature has been a symbolic effect, so I would also like to inform this Government, the Government led by our colleague, Borut Pahor, that we report, I speak for myself, that we want to break this anti-urban policy, that we want to amend the law on the financing of municipalities, that we want to take into account the specific needs of urban environments in this Law on Community Financing, let us say the issue of public transport not only of housing and some other matters that need to be properly and adequately evaluated. To take into account that these sites perform service and some other functions for the whole population and for a whole range of municipalities that do not do so and do not have thresholds to manage. It's not about Ljubljana. It's all the centers if you want. From Lendava to Ankara, of course, or Koper and so on. This is what we want to inform this government and we want to report that if the Government does not do so, at least I want to report it, we will do so in this Parliament, at least those who are aware of it and who have made certain promises to the people in the cities where we were elected. I would also, of course, like to point out that, if I may, Mr Vice-President, say that, when we adopt the budget, of course, I have already participated in the large budgets or as a Member, and more than once in the role of the Government, we are properly confronted by the fact that the opposition is justified or not moaning, or is ardent at the fact that their amendments are not accepted. I hope, of course, in this case, that the amendment, which I wholeheartedly support, and with the understanding of politics, I will probably not be able to do so to others, of course also to the position. But I would say this, at this point, my respectable fellow opposition, is this rebalancing of the balance, still your budget. It still expresses your fundamental priorities because it was adopted during your government. I warned you then, listen to us, because we will implement this budget. Do you remember our discussions in the previous term? It is still to a greater extent, I would say, when you imagine this budget of yours, but it is, of course, rebalanced in some points, some of the points you have supported yourself. Of course, I believe that the Government, which comes into Parliament with a budget and experiences this budget with a thorough change without the Government wanting this change, needs to be resolved by such a government rather than amend the budget. Since the Government has no fundamental priorities, it has nothing to do with fundamental parliaments and needs to be resolved and resolved in another way. However, I think it is right that some good practice is taken into account in the next year's budget. Some of them called it trading, of course, you can call it, which was in the days of Drnovsk's governments, including the Robbery, if I'm not mistaken, and which had some unwritten tradition to allow some amendment, including with the participation of the opposition or the opposition amendment, to determine some amendment on some limited scale for certain things. Of course it was, you'll guess, the road amendment. I would like to be a water amendment to be a scientific amendment, not to say it would be a military amendment, I'm sorry, but whatever, it was always a road amendment. And I think, Mr Križanič, bear in mind that some specific needs of the opposition are expressed through this amendment, whether it be a joint opposition, opposition parliamentary or so. This was good practice, it didn't cost much, you could have told her trade of some if you wanted, but I think there was also a gesture of opposition, because most of the amendments you're going to table today and in the next budgets, we will never, if we're worth anything, ever accept. That's why we wouldn't, because we'd destroy the references we have. That is true and so was and so was the mandate of the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Like my colleague, Paula Gantar, as an MP who was elected in the City of Ljubljana and who I have sincerely signed this mega amendment with great hope, especially because for the first time in the history of this Parliament, a group of Members has found themselves and made an action in the field of the protection of the interests of the City of Ljubljana. Usually Ljubljana was neglected, even when the Main City Act was passed, when it was very symbolically made with old articles. I was aware that the amendment because of its scope, and also because of the way it positioned the funds from which it would be taken, would not go through because I was so real. However, at the symbolic level, this amendment has brought to the attention of many of the unresolved problems in Ljubljana. On this side, I'm very happy and pleased. I think that this matter and the problems of Ljubljana have, however, begun to be addressed in the National Assembly and that all those colleagues who have sat here so far have begun to think about this somewhat more responsibly and to think about what the capital means, what a large urban whole means, what difficult interventions it needs and what it means to solve finally water resources for such a conglomerate of citizens as Ljubljana. It is easy to provide a small village, village or small town, however - Ljubljana, how it looks, how to provide. The rehabilitation programme for wild landfills alone has been prepared for a long time in Ljubljana and, finally, pilot projects have been prepared for water supply. And I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Environment and Space at this and other steps will find so much energy and common will to resolve this matter. It's too late to ring the bell. My colleague Anderlich has been sitting in this House for a long time. I can do it again, and I can have it replicated. For the first time, colleague Anderlič has now taken up the city and the problem of the city, but at the wrong time, whether he realizes it or not that the sustainability of public finances will not succeed. However, he warned as others would about the city’s problems. And I hope that, with all the rationality and reality of the politicians in Parliament, we will also pay a little more attention to this problem in the coming years, especially when we consider the Main City Act and we will also find comparisons with other major cities in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich, whose debate was specifically mentioned, has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u200	Well, memory can be short, but thought can be unobjective, unfair, unfair, and so it is. I'll make you some magnetograms tomorrow, Mrs. Silva, not one. I just don't understand, or when you were here, you weren't following, when you weren't, probably not, all of what we were doing in this congregation. Believe me, from the very beginning, since the local government, if you want - I'm the first marriage, along with the Potz, which was not adopted, long ago, 8 or 10 years ago, and we put it in, but later, it didn't go through, it was only in the previous term. And something else. It's okay to spit a little bit like that, anyway, but of course I'm not going to comment on why you changed your mind overnight. Did you first read the bad news that you're reading it to me now? I still think, I still think that this can be realized in the way the amendment has been amended. But I also said that nothing would be wrong if it didn't, because the other part is more important, which I hope we have agreed on - even with you - and I am counting on your support even when the law on amending and financing the municipalities and the law on the capital and something else is being prepared. I'm seriously counting on this not to be necessary at the time. But I also saw the withdrawal of the signature, not just the signature.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I was delighted to hear today's debate, especially with colleagues from Trofenika and also from Gantar and others who pointed to this problem, as well as with the signatories of this amendment, those who have withdrawn the signature and those who have remained. Ljubljana is not only a city municipality, Ljubljana is a metropolis, Ljubljana is the capital of this country, Ljubljana is the city that is on the verge of becoming a semi-million-dollar, multi-million-dollar city - who knows, in short, when things start to go completely differently, the city, as I say, Slovenia has not yet. Trieste was at the beginning of this century, and at some point earlier, perhaps a very large city, perhaps larger than Ljubljana, had predispositions to become something to give us a cosmopolitan size, if you want, not just physically, even mentally, but the historical circumstances wanted otherwise. The Ljubljanaers could soon do this if we knew, of course, how to move things forward. Funny, it is inconceivable to hear, given the arguments put forward, the debate in this House that Ljubljana is the richest municipality in the world. I don't know, Mr Jerovšek, did my colleague Marinic read you this from any German newspaper? Where did you get that information? Read some statistics, and it was already mentioned here today. You'll see it's not like that. And the reasons why we have submitted these amendments to these three amendments are, stand and stand firm. Otherwise, time may not be good for these amendments, but I do not agree with any other speakers here. It seems inconceivable to me that in the time when we will bring water to the last village in Haloza, we will have to buy bottled water in the capital because the one we can get from our waterworks will not be good. In particular, it seems to me that the application is based on what I say is a housing amendment. In Ljubljana, after the last call for non-profit housing, there were no apartments for 2500 applicants. This is a couple of single people, and of course some of them are families. 2500 people, including from other parts of Slovenia, and especially from Ljubljana, cannot buy their own apartment. Renting an apartment at a market price, prices are a couple hundred euros for minimum squares. And I, who have tried this myself over the past ten years, must say that I am taking the profits that Ljubljana needs to pay for the living tax. You have a category of citizens who only have to pay for it because they are or, of course, choose to be homeless. These are options, no other options. They want to be independent, they don't want to live with their parents, they may not even be able to, they know, they want to live, they want to study, they want to work, they want to make a family, they don't have anywhere. And in Ljubljana, this is the biggest one. Therefore, the sense of placing these funds there is also very necessary. I hardly understand the defence minister's argument that the military will give 484 apartments it has throughout the country to help all citizens of Slovenia. It's great that the army went to put a bridge in the Yevnica. But why didn't she put him at Tromosts? Because Ljubljana doesn't need him there. Just like in the Yevnica, we don't need apartments, we don't need bridges in Ljubljana, but we need apartments. It is good that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia does what it does, Mr Križanič. I'm also a user of his services, and I have a young family myself, and I'm still qualified, and I'm glad he's helping me co-finance the rent. But the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has also received 170 apartments from the Ministry of Public Administration, and it has warmed its management with them. This is not in his interest and the city housing fund is trying to do what it can, but under new legislation, when only 10% of the debt is possible, of course it cannot do what the needs of the city of Ljubljana and the wider surroundings dictate. Prices of dwellings in Ljubljana are also dictated by prices of dwellings elsewhere in Slovenia, which is why this topic is wider, in addition to the already mentioned fact that people move from elsewhere to Ljubljana. And, however, some of you mention, among them to my great regret, also the Minister of Defence, that the adoption of such an amendment would mean that we will now be financing a real estate mafia, which, of course, also by colleague Jerovšek. I can tell you, there are 800 apartments built in Ljubljana that have not been sold at the moment. This proposed amendment would allow for the purchase of 150. Now, you guys explain to me how this thing can save 800 apartments that are either imported or "planned." And it is likely that some of them will also be built in the meantime. And if we're already in the real estate mafia, how can someone brag about 7% of economic growth while at the same time talking about the real estate mafia? Yeah, who did that seven percent? These same realtors worked 7%. On the one hand, you praise them, they have been made by more or less foreign workers who live in single homes in impossible conditions, in short, with one exploitation that is not worthy of man and therefore can be praised on the one hand. However, of course, situations are different, but this same argument can be used against such an amendment as we are renewing it here. We have changed funding sources. We are still convinced that, with the dynamics of compensation for investing in telecommunications, some resources could still be taken from this title, and some from the Ministry of Defence, of course, to provide weapons and infrastructure capacity, among which it is likely that this bridge is not in Yevnica. And while I'm looking forward to the army ordering at Mura's, I think it's a good thing. As for the hospital, which we have for five or several years, and the browns in the various parking lots of different Slovenian hospitals, I find it difficult to agree with you, and I don't see why we should build new barracks, but if we don't have any soldiers who will be in them, unless there's a big new advertising campaign planned, which is likely to impress children in kindergartens with this mortal trade, I'll say. Just know that I'm the last one to shake my eye if we don't meet the conditions for nato. And I don't believe that by what I'm doing, by making such an amendment, I'm denouncing the Slovenian Army, and I'm abolishing the country something like that, no. If it were me, there would be no Slovenian soldier in either Iraq or Afghanistan. No one would be threatened, no one would have anything to deny. But we're like that for once in a minority. Okay. Therefore, where we are here, I still believe that, even if such an amendment were confirmed, with the dynamics of production, the supply of patriots, the dynamics of payments would still be bearable. Everyone, I'm saying, would, I think, make sense in this housing amendment that at least he doesn't object if he can't be supported. However, if the resources are wrong, I would strongly recommend, as has already been said here, a change in our real estate policy and Minister Križanič as soon as possible the introduction of a property tax. Just not that we're likely to find any additional resources in these days. We listened in this National Assembly, for example, yesterday's debate about how someone could have been so unknowingly enriched in three or four years. All those who bought the apartments under the Law of Jasbinski, you've been carelessly enriched in a couple of years. So it's nothing weird. And if that's the case, let's collect this tax on this ransom of the Jezbinski apartments and probably some other old ones. In short, I believe that, when the real estate tax is introduced as soon as possible, for the first time, it could increase resources that are now necessary, but also in the real estate market, order in some market sense, not by some kind of coercion. In short, using appropriate supply and demand instruments, this price would fall to a real level. However, we should no longer have to talk about one or the other mafia, there would no longer be 2,500 applicants for social housing in Ljubljana and there would be no such amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. First of all, I am pleased to say that none of the signatories of the amendments who initially wanted to be ripped out of the Slovenian budget and the Slovenian Armed Forces, EUR 33.5 million, denied that this was an attack on the Slovenian state. For this reason, I reject the suggestion that this is our budget. Low! This budget is shared, especially in the field of defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces. This is a national resource and who is not aware that we are talking about a common budget, a common interest, a state-of-the-art interest, this denial of the Slovenian state. However, this budget in the field of the military, as the Minister has said, is well spent. It no longer ensures the preservation of the substance, no longer ensures the safety of Slovenian soldiers, and an attack on such a budget. For this reason, I must say that these amendments have nothing to do with trade with the opposition if, in the past, some amendments have been reached with the opposition. That's just not true. I am convinced that the current opposition with the security and independence of the Slovenian state would not trade. These amendments are, however, for trade in Balkan ties in Ljubljana, which are well organised and have important supporters who are real estate brokers. The financial tents were closed and taken hostage by the Slovenian State. First, he wants to destroy himself or, as the Minister says, dismantle the Slovenian Army and then half the work is done. Then the Slovenian state will be in a subordinate position, perhaps already. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, the irresponsible signature of the people who should be most responsible to the Slovenian state is under the amendment, which seeks to bring the Slovenian state into a subordinate position, which is objectively a conspiracy against the state and is a scandal without chance. That is why - and he was here, and I do not condemn him - Mr Pahor should have made this clear to the Slovenian people. Unfortunately, I didn't want to hear from you earlier because people wouldn't understand what this is about, but I hope that Mr Pahor will come and that he will be identified here. In fact, we should close the session because it's harmful for foreigners, for those who don't choose funds that are obviously connected, that have good connections, to be distributed here and now. Behold, what has happened is a logical continuation of what has been here without warning, without criticism and without warning said before. Sometimes it was those who fought for Slovenian independence when they were wearing heads for sale, cowboys, that they were acting like "rambots" and that they walked the Ljubljana streets with guns. There was no warning, and this is a logical continuation. Mr Rožej, I must say, you have not been on the Defence Committee, but Mr Anderlič has heard that the Minister has said that it is a great illusion to build any new troops from this budget. And again, you're saying that from this budget we're going to be building new wars, that we're going to be incredibly armed, that we're going to become a militarist state. Yes, where are you? What are you talking about?Oh, my God! What are you up to? Once again, they entrenched those forces who had signed the Declaration of Peace before their independence and tried to prevent their independence. That's amazing! It's amazing that enlightened people can do something like that. I'm being dramatic, and I'm going to be dramatic. Because I didn't expect anything like this to happen in this country. Now that some have been misled by Mr Anderlich, I do not accept that either. You agree in the coalition whether you are for the Slovenian state or not, or are you in favour of becoming a subordinate. And the Minister said about the subordination of the situation that between the 25 countries of NATO, with the least means of development, we have become the poorest country in one year, as I once commented. And you are behind the message you are trying to strengthen: let us be poorer, let us give even less for the Slovenian soldier, let us make him even more vulnerable. You're behind this message. Again, I invite you to apologize to Slovenian soldiers and Slovenian people. That's not how it works. And if some of you were then skeptical about the independent Slovenian state, if you were afraid, if you didn't trust her, don't show this mistrust here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich asked for a replica and later Mr Rozej. [[Ad in the background.]] Was it Mr. Rose before? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief, colleagues and colleagues. As far as my past statements are concerned, I would ask my colleague Jerovska to read the magnetogram in detail, and he will have a lot clearer and see what was going on. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u207	Please allow Mr. Rose to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u208	In the early '90s and early '80s and who and when my reference was flying. [[...]] However, as far as these differences are concerned, it is, my colleague Jerovšek, that Ljubljana is more important to my Slovenia than to the army, that for your Slovenia the army is more important than Ljubljana, but for our Slovenia they are both important, and you must not expect me to take my stand for understanding of your Slovenia if you do not have it for my Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlič has the floor [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Mr Jerovšek, Mr Anderlich has the floor, I have already given him my word. [[...]] You replicas, you'll get procedural. [[...]] Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u210	Well, there is no other question here than whether, because of Mr Jerovsk's remarks, this meeting should not have to be closed to the public, because with such qualifications as he described here what was supposed to be happening, but it is possible for anyone to think that something unacceptable is happening, something conspiratory, something that was harmful. No, Mr Jerovšek, nothing like this has happened before or now, but you are the last one to stand up for this country or this defence ministry, or this army, indeed the last. For as long as you will not, because I see your indignation only by defending some who have been in some business in this area for 20 years. Come with the data, tell me why you're doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u211	Mr Anderlich, please explain your views, do not talk about the charges, because Mr Jerovšek can no longer defend himself because [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u212	I'm replicating him, he challenged me, he misunderstood my discussion, he misunderstood it, and the wrong indication has to be corrected. [[...]] And that is that I have never failed anyone, I have signed another on paper knowingly and knowingly behind this signature. However, I was involved in amending the amendment, which has been verified, which is feasible and which does not threaten anything. But once again, as it is said, if you don't allow even a discussion of why some things would also need changes to fix and so on, then it's very difficult to find a common language, very difficult. I am in favour of discussing and believing that, in the near future, we will come from what, if you have already failed in this area of defence, what can Slovenia actually do in this time and what is it that it needs? And this is a legitimate discussion and it has nothing to do with the conspiracy here, but when it comes to Ljubljana, the fact that the discussion is also necessary. Once again, much has been said today, much is known in the public what is what needs to be changed. If it is not possible to talk about this in the National Assembly and not agree on a further solution, we will have to talk and say that we will finally come to some common conclusions that Ljubljana is ours, one together and that we must all listen to it. Even those who withdraw the signature don't know why it's what it's like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u213	Mr. Anderlich, time for the replica is up. Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, there is no replica, you have procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u214	Procedurally. Mr President, this refers to Mr Roje's performance. In fact, we should intervene because you know exactly when Mr Rožej said unacceptable insults at the expense of Mr Gorenak, that he was a cowboy, that he was acting like a cowboy who walked around Ljubljana with a revolver during the war of independence, and I know exactly what he said and is trying to mislead the Slovenian public today, that he did not say that and that I was speaking the untruth. Besides, he used to tell me that I was carelessly enriched with the Law of Jasbinski. I didn't get anything from the Jasbinski law, and even the Slovenians didn't get carelessly rich, that was then. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u215	Mr Jerovšek, what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u216	And I've already told you to remind Mr. Rojo not to mention the facts, because I reacted at the time because the president refused to react. And I am terribly pleased with this debate, Mr Anderlič, I must tell you, I never prevent the debate and I am extremely pleased that the Slovenian people see the strength of the Balkan ties here in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u217	Mr Jerovšek, you did not have a procedural proposal, and Mr Rojej spoke not about the assessments of some of the unacceptable, but you and I have nothing to warn him about. Mr. Blacky, do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u218	Yes, Your Honor. I see they've already fixed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u219	If you'd like to procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u220	Mr Jerovšek had a procedural time running out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u222	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I am not signing these amendments myself, but only because I was sick. True, indeed, I wanted to contribute to the efforts that my coalition colleagues have been talking about before. Above all, I would like to refer to the words spoken by our President in the National Assembly. Of course, so is colleague Anderlich. This anti-urbanization is visible to us every day. Let's get some fresh wine. In this House, we are all political opponents by party. But when it comes to some local interest, let's face it, no matter where we come from, but we're friends as soon as possible, the mayors are connected, the MPs are connected from the same areas, and they're sent-off clubs for these things. It is also legitimate for Members to advocate for the local interests of the communities that have elected us. But then, please also leave Ljubljana to the Ljubljana people or to those who were elected to Ljubljana to try to achieve something for our capital at some point. And it's not just that. I'm worried about some other thought. I know why he's doing SDS shows. This is a matter of opposition to Mayor Jankovic. Listen. This Ljubljana has already been run by a whole range of mayors and mayors, and there will be a whole range of them. Since this is the capital, which has almost four times more inhabitants than our second largest city, it is understandable that it has also received the most money. But it doesn't matter if he gets the most. But you have taken him away from him most in the previous term, and it is therefore perfectly understandable that we are asking the Government, even though we are coalition Members and this is our Government, we ask this Government to reconsider the system laws. Not only about the Main City Act, but also about the City Halls. I think that other municipalities in Slovenia are also very important and this area of urbanisation of this country needs to be regulated. Then I'd say something else about a conspiracy against the Slovenian state. I see a conspiracy against Slovenia when, for example, in Bled it is illegal to talk about the territory of Slovenia without the support and opinion of this Parliament. I see that a conspiracy is being waged against the Slovenian country when the international treaties we have signed are not respected and the commitments, or, say, human rights, which we are given and so forth. All of these are pre-conspiracy against the Slovenian state, and the plot against the Slovenian state is to make the capital, which is the capital of all of us, a decent position. There's something else I'd like to say. I am tired of the fact that for the past 18 years only one political option has earned its right and attributed its credit to Slovenian statehood. Colleagues from the other side, this will have to be stopped for once. Some in this House have also fought and, above all, all Slovenians have fought for it. That is why, please, we would stop using these matters in any matter, even in the context of the budget's rebalancing. I think that's enough, and I expect the government to take our proposals into account. Besides, I won't support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I've already given my word to Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I have to actually replicate or "correct" Mr Križanič, because the officials who gave you the explanation did not give you the correct one. I'm talking about an amendment returning funds to protect the environment. For a cleaning plant in New Town, where the funds are reduced by two million euros, the project documentation set up at the Ministry of the Environment has been available since last August or September. Officials kept it in the drawer all the time in order not to have to provide it. And that statement of yours that the funds provide dynamics, I'm going to say, means dictate dynamics. And from EUR 2 million 500,000, as envisaged by the State, this dynamic will now be greatly slowed down to 390,000. Believe that the cleaning plant will not be completed by the end of 2010, when it should be under the regulation, but will probably be 2011 or 2012. This is not a correct indication. It would be good to have those funds back. But as for all those squabbles, where the money comes from. We were right here, and we did not take the euro to the Ministry of Defence, as was the case in the past. Because we are aware that with the help of the Slovenian Army Slovenia has become independent and that we will also be able to maintain this sovereignty with the help of the Slovenian Army. That is also why, Madam Secretary of Defence, we have not actually built any of our amendments on taking away your department. And given your statement that you will have all the uniforms sewed in Mura, I can thank you here, congratulations on behalf of many Prekmurks who will be grateful for this. As far as housing in Ljubljana is concerned, we will be happy to support the Slovenian Democratic Party, but when the source of resources is where we will miss them with joy or without difficulty. Let's give the court's salary back to the level that it was before, so that the items don't go up there, and let's make those compensations that will be paid for the blanks, for sure, for the flats. And believe that there will be enough housing, not only in Ljubljana, but throughout Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I ask you that your proposal is procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u226	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You are well aware that we should react to Mrs Klasinc's outrageous speech. In fact, whoever says that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an independent, independent country, has illegally spoken to the Prime Minister of another country in his territory, does not recognise the Republic of Slovenia as his country, as a free and independent country. And that is such an insult to this country that you should react. No Slovenian Prime Minister spoke illegally on Slovenian territory. I think that's the standard that needs to be accepted. For this and for another reason - anti-urbanization is said to be harmful, but supporting these Balkan real estate companies is not harmful?Oh, my God! The Balkanisation of Ljubljana and Slovenia is not harmful?Oh, my God! Where did we come from?Oh, my God! In the minimum [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u228	responsibilities should be that we are aware of where to be established and how to respect this country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Today, many unacceptable statements have been made, even on your part, and I have not reacted, so I will not in this case. The word is given by the Minister Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u230	Honourable Member Grill, as long as formal barriers to permits for cleaning on the river Krka near New Town are removed, there are no obstacles to this being financed. The budget is flexible as regards the use of domestic funds combined with European funds, as this is the case. As soon as these funds can be used, resources from the resources of the budget will also be available. We are now planning to accelerate the advances with a specific change in regulation, so that even if construction is yet to begin, there will be much more funding than in the previous case. In short, as long as formal barriers are removed; there are certain obstacles, if not, the Ministry would give permission; the project will run smoothly and will also be able to finance it without additional rebalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like only one of the Members, not to appoint him, to quote the 69th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, the small Constitution of this Parliament. "A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure [[Procedural question]] That the Chairman's word as soon as I requested it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than 3 minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." We have witnessed the grave abuse of this 69th Rule of the Rules of Procedure several times this evening. Allow me to return to the content of the so-called Ljubljana amendments. I am grateful to all the proponents of those who insist, because I think that in today's debate we are coming to a common understanding that Slovenia needs a different law on the financing of municipalities. And that we are, above all, major Slovenian cities, Ljubljana and Maribor, and perhaps too many other cities, because we are doing a particular regional and essential wider function, which goes beyond the boundaries of the municipalities, it is right to correct these things. Allow me to convey to this debate one very simplistic thought. I looked at the tax revenues of the Ljubljana municipality and the municipality of Maribor from 2006 to 2009. I ignored the principals, the proper spending and the like. A simple indication of how much tax revenue comes from the state budget into the city budget. And you know, when we talk about how the city of Ljubljana is damaged, yes, it is damaged by the previous law on the financing of municipalities. I'll turn the board around, and I didn't table a personal amendment, because I agree that these things need to be regulated systematically. This comparison shows that in 2006 Maribor received 221,30 euros per capita from the State budget of less tax revenues. For 58.32 euros the income is lower in 2007, 114.83 less per capita in 2008 and 93.89 less per capita in 2009. This is the average of these four years, 122,085 euros per inhabitant of Maribor less than the population of Ljubljana. I am also grateful to the Slovenian government for its rejection of this amendment, for the reason mentioned above, because I think that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities must come before us, in order to specifically regulate the financing of the municipalities. I am pleased with Ljubljana's rapid urban development. I am aware that there is a large urban environment here, one of the great things that my colleague Rosjej has been talking about, but you know, this rapid development is due to the centralisation of this country, which we have witnessed for the last 20 years. And what I personally set myself as a personal goal is to start in this country with a different regional policy, which will be able to fit into individual local environments, let it be Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper or Črnomelj. Institutions of State importance as well. You know, when we talk about the capital, and I admit that I am already a little allergic to the idea that, through the capital law, the Republic of Slovenia will provide 56 million euros or less to which it feels damaged. You know, Maribor doesn't have to give any more euros, we're willing to be the country's capital just to get the 10,000 jobs Ljubljana has today because it is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. And after you give the initiative to, say, correct how to make a historic mistake, to place Holding of Slovenian Power Plants where the traditional centre of Slovenian Energy is, where we know how to work renewable and green energy sources, you will get an answer that I would rather not quote to you here today; but it was written by the one who in 2003 caused the seat of this newly established holding company to go to Ljubljana. And the same person who is now making big plans on how he will reorganise Slovenian electricity distribution is also likely to centralise it in Ljubljana. As far as housing is concerned, I agree with the speakers that this is an acute problem for Slovenian society. I've talked about why in this room many times. Because we have been betting on the ownership model that today we are the country with the largest share of ownership apartments, 94%, unlike the more advanced countries of the north and the West, which have ownership apartments of 54%. Essentially, but significantly more of course market and non-profit leases, the Netherlands even up to 35%, me 4% of the social lease. And hiring, whether it's non-profit or market, is what we have to bet on as the country's new housing policy. And I propose to the Government, prepare a national rent scheme law, give it to the builders and investors who now own empty apartments that they built for sale on the market and have received short-term loans, usually three years to build, sell and repay loans. Give these investors long-term guarantees to reclassify these loans in loans from 16 to 20 years, provided that these apartments are placed in the management of the Housing Fund and remain owned by these investors, while the Housing Fund organises a scheme to reach a centrally organised lease in Ljubljana, Maribor and wherever young families do not have the opportunity to solve their housing problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u234	Yes, if the government doesn't listen to us, at least let their Members. We will support these ideas if there is a realisation. As far as the amendment is concerned, the amendment with which it was intended for the first 17, now only three members of the ruling coalition, Mr Jankovic, have fulfilled the pre-election promise made to him by Mr Pahor. And because it was not different, in the form of an amendment of 15 million euros for housing. As we know that it cannot be formally done this way, I am taking this amendment as support for more active housing policies, and one of the sources, the one taking national security, of course, was not the right one. It was interesting today, and I must say, even a while ago, days, weeks ago, months ago, to listen and read the views of the well-respected Minister of Defence, who is putting great ambitions into saving or implementing the housing policy of this coalition with the old JLA apartments, which have been infamous for 18 years. Today, however, at this point and this amendment, it would be necessary only to hear the Minister for the Environment and the Space responsible for housing policy in this country. Because we're probably all aware that you can't be realized through one mayor. In the opposition today, we would like to hear concrete action by the Minister of the Environment on how and how this more active housing policy, which was announced in the coalition agreement, will be implemented in the whole country and not only in one municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusič applied for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I must say that it would not be right for this well-respected High Council to feel that the Ministry of Defence does not feel the need to solidarity with its citizens when there is a crisis. In fact, this year we have given up 79 million euros so that you can see through it that we are making a great contribution to the savings in our budget for this year. Ljubljana is also my city, but you must understand that as Minister of Defence I have to take care of the whole country, namely to defend every piece of this country and every citizen of this country. Two more explanations. The conditions for NATO were met when the state of Slovenia entered NATO in 2004, and now it would be right to remain a credible Member State of NATO to be aware of our responsibilities, while at the same time ensuring that we maintain the reputation we have created in the past five years in relation to NATO. And one last explanation. It is in the second balance when it comes to the issue of vehicles 8X8, the money for only 13 vehicles taken over and it is not possible to transfer it anywhere else in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to discuss it. Please report to anyone who wants to discuss. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I looked at the indices and data from this brochure recently received by members of the Slovenian region in the figures of the Statistical Office in 2009. And I'll read some numbers. Although they are a little older because the Bureau of Statistics is late to give numbers, the illustrations will be quite appropriate. Unemployment in 2007: Pomurje 13.4, Slovenia - average 7.7 and central region 5.9. Half less. Average monthly gross salary per person 2007 in euro [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u239	Mr. Žerjav, please limit the content to an amendment, not to other things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u240	Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u241	No, that's not the contents of the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u242	Yes, of course it is. 1.062 Euros, Slovenia 1.284 Central Slovenia 1.454. [[...]] And I'm gonna say one more, and I'm gonna finish. GDP per capita in euro 2006: Pomurje 10.223, Slovenia 15.446 and central Slovenia 22.286. But there is no big difference if instead of Pomurje you tell Koroška or even the eastern part of our beautiful country. I would be happy if we could talk today about these high millions, for which another province, in particular, also about Pomurje, especially now that Mura and I are facing total chaos with 20% unemployment, so that every fifth Pomurec will be unemployed. Every fifth Pomurec will be unemployed if there's a black screenplay. And one more thing. In Slovenia, every Slovenian and Slovene woman still does not have healthy drinking water. Everyone doesn't have healthy drinking water if you want, Goričko-Haloze, and probably somewhere else in Slovenia. This is not consistent with regional development for me. I understand different regional development in a coherent way. It's completely different. And if they gave more opportunities to people in the countryside, they would stay there and not go to Ljubljana. Ljubljana is, in fact, the only option or much greater chance of getting a real future for themselves, for their families, so that they can get a job better and live easier. And if they were given more opportunities and more opportunities where they are at home, in White Krajina, in Koroškem, in Pomurje or anywhere else, they would not come here, they would stay there, they would work there, and in Ljubljana there would not be such a big problem for the apartment and so on. But I agree. It is likely that something will have to be done for Ljubljana in the future. I'm sure, but I don't think that's appropriate in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Ambassador Villa Trofenik has made a fine statement of the facts which make us worthy of a more urban policy, but I will not support the amendments mentioned at this time for two reasons. We just can't afford that balance. And secondly, the amendments speak of only one city congregation, not all. When the other municipal congregations are added to the amendments in the future, I will also support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, present! I agree with the discourse put here by Comrade Žerjav. And you have to admit that such a discourse has been heard here many times more than the one we're running today. In this I see the importance, the importance of this debate, although I believe that some colleagues would rather see it shorter, but don't mind. I hope we've all learned something from this debate. As for the amendment itself and its resources, I would say to the Minister: the Ministry of Defence could not give up the 70s and I do not know how many millions. Why? Because these millions aren't from the Department of Defense until the National Assembly says they are. That's just the way it is. Then, when we say so, you can use them just like it's written. Until then, these are not millions of U.S. Department of Defense. That is why it may be easy for us to discuss this money from your point of view. That's what I'd say. I also agree with these comparisons with Maribor, but you will probably have to admit that it is the right of local self-government, that people who live there and deserve what they earn manage this money and work with their environment as they do. It will probably also have to be acknowledged if you look at another table, where most of the development aid goes or some other things from the country, that it goes to Ljubljana at least because there is no need. I agree, however, because, of course, the average earnings are higher. Always look at the whole picture before we only deal with partial data. As far as Ljubljana is concerned, it is not Ljubljana’s fault that it has been the capital of the Region of Kranjska for 1,000 years and it is not its fault that the historical circumstances are such that the Land of Kranjska was the Slovenian country, which was mostly Slovenian and therefore remained the whole within our present country. If things were different, maybe it could be Trieste, Celovec, Gradac they weren't, and that's just the way it is. This is not why Ljubljana is the capital. She used to be happy to be. Now the question is, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u247	Madam Minister, Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u248	Thank you so much for that warning. The Ministry of Defence has waived the funds planned for 2009 amounting to 79 million euros, and in this regard I apologize for the wrong dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It would be good if we were a little more reasonable in this room. The fact is, things aren't black and white. But in these cases that we're talking about today, they're only black. They're both right. And those who advocate and advocate for Ljubljana and those who speak of the importance of the means that they are and who disappear from the defence department. Today we used such big words about respect, about pride, about the country. Ljubljana is our capital and we should be proud of it because it is our capital. And we should be proud of the Slovenian Army. And when we talk about security, it was said that there was never a single euro left. She was always getting off the defense. Always. Whenever the amendments were tabled, it was out of defense. It has always come from this area and today, when some say that the euro has never even been taken from the defence department, it is a pure lie. The fact is that the city of Ljubljana, which is our capital, has been wronged. I understand those who are literally falling to the ground today that such an amendment cannot be supported. Because if we supported him, then we would publicly, clearly and loudly admit that this city was wrong. That way, of course, they can't support him. I understand that. And I also understand those who talk about how bad it is to take more defense. The Defence Minister has already warned several times today and recently that things are worrying and I believe her because I believe she is competent in her work and that she is operating with the right data and with the right conditions that are in our defence department and which are in the Slovenian Army. And when we talk about a matter such as our security, our common security, which everyone would like to have, let us think a little bit more far-reaching. And just because both of them are right, and those who support Ljubljana, because it is true, the Ljubljanaers have been robbed of this money unjustly, and Ljubljana needs this money, and those who advocate that the defence is no longer taken. Why? Because we're talking about our common security. I will therefore abstain from voting on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Can I find out we're not yet? [[...]] Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u252	Because there were also some indications that we should be proud of Ljubljana and she looked at me. I am very proud of Ljubljana as the capital and, of course, the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian state, because it is the capital, must not be destroyed, because then there will be no capital. We have already had this situation, and those who do it today are not proud of Ljubljana. I tell you that they are not proud of Ljubljana, because those who have provoked it are themselves greed, only personal interests are in the background, and I must say that, of course, I am pleased that the Minister has called for us to remain a credible state, that we must maintain our reputation. In doing so, she objectively stated that these amendments were an attack on credibility and an attack on the reputation of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u253	Thank you very much. May I close this debate with these three amendments? We are therefore moving on to the next budget item. User: Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Subprogramme: Ensuring social inclusion. Drafter of the amendment: Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Since no one wants a word, I am closing the debate and moving on to the Sub-programme of Study Assistance. Applicant: Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There's no desire to discuss it. I conclude the debate on this amendment. We're moving to the Ministry of Health. Subprogramme: Management and supervision of the healthcare system. Applicant: Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it would be unwise or even illogical to see this item diminishing the resources proposed by the Government as well, so we would like to see these funds increase to EUR 1.5 million here, because the argument that these resources would not be needed at such a level is that they are unfounded because, given the situation in force in Slovenia, we have an increasing number of unemployed, increasingly vulnerable people. It is right that these funds are also provided here, as it is expected that there will be more of them. In particular, it seems important to us, given the Secretary-General's statement or finding that, on the Health Committee, whether the Ministry of Health or the Government has reserved possible funds for the purchase of influenza vaccines, which will certainly threaten our citizens and citizens in the autumn time in Slovenia, it has ensured that these resources are not available, but it sees that such funds could also be provided from such an item. That is why we have also proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this item should be increased to ensure this when it comes to the need for funds to buy these vaccines, in particular to provide health care to socially disadvantaged citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, it is necessary to understand the concern of the Slovenian Democratic Party about the reduction of funds on this item, but I was also surprised and wanted to get precise explanations as to why we have reduced the funds on this item. But the calculations and figures of the first half suggest that the funds reserved on this item were too high. I particularly checked in the health insurance company whether it was so or not and whether there was a upward trend and thus the need for these funds? I was surprised it was. Now, it will also be necessary to determine whether information can in some way be reduced or whether the needs of the population are so low. There is a legal obligation, the state is bound by the law that it will have to cover these costs. I myself wish that the health condition of people will be such that there will be no need for resources on this item for two reasons; that people will be healthier and, of course, that the social pressures of people will be so low that the beneficiaries of these funds will be less. However, it seems to me that the warning at this point by the Slovenian Democratic Party is justified, but the real figures speak of the fact that support for the amendment in this place would not, of course, be justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u257	I conclude the debate on this amendment and move on to the two amendments which are submitted to the Health Sub-programme and to the Demographicly Emerged Areas. The first amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the second amendment by Mr Miran Györek. There you go. Someone wants a word. I'm opening time for an application. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I will begin with the material attached to the budget rebalance by the Ministry of Health under item 1702, Primary Health. This is an element that is very important in explaining our amendment. He says: The decision to determine the development of municipalities is prepared on the basis of one criterion, which does not express actual underdevelopment "and continues," due to the absence of relevant legal bases, the Ministry will not publish a call for health co-financing in demographically threatened areas in 2009. [[...]] The reason - the absence of legal bases, of course, is that I can't find the right Slovenian term, it's a little strange, it's a little ironic, it's a little unusual. In the specific remote area of Slovenia, Prekmurje and Gorička, where my fellow Member, Miran Györek, who is also an applicant of this amendment, does not have an adequate health care system. That's what voters are warning us about. You know what it's like, one of the representatives of various parliamentary political parties is also my colleague, and he's got these readings. A large number of pensioners and residents face a lack of adequate health care and problems with timely access to health care. And when my colleague Miran says to them, "I, you know, the explanation says that the absence of an appropriate legal basis is the one who takes EUR 331 000," they laugh at him and say they don't believe him, and they don't understand that either. Simply put, Goričko, Prekmurje is a plain on which good people live on Miško Kranjec, wide and spacious accessibility is, with kilometers measured, large or accessible or unavailable. And people need help whether they themselves get medical care or need health care to reach them. There are already problems there, there is a shortage and, with the exception of EUR 331 000, this deficit will cause a crisis. And for the second time at home, I see that in one or the other proposal, the people we take are different users, but in the end, I'll say, why don't we just take away our friend Cricket from 700 thousand 330 thousand and leave him 370. And the wolf will be full of goats, so that it will probably have a much greater effect if the people in Goriček and Prekmurje have minimal access to health care, but our colleague Mr. Squeakl would have three computers, two copiers and a body that will supervise the body that controls the organ from the organ that is the organ. I think it would be far more fair than to increase the Office of the President of the Government by 5.2%, as we have heard an estimate of 700,000 euros to leave 370,000 and 330,000 euros to give to people for health care in Prekmurje and Gorički. At least I think that's fairer. Because there are quite a few 10,000 people living there, if not anymore. The same amendment has also been tabled by colleagues from the opposition party, but I will support it and we will both support it. But to think seriously about this rebalancing. I think that a few 10,000 people and their health care is more important than, if I make a comparison, the Office of Foreign Policy or the Office of the President of the Government, which I respect, which I know has a lot of work to do. But still, we're going to have an agency to oversee the agency that's the agency that's overseeing the agency. We'll only have one agency and we'll have health care. I think it would be fair for all Members and Members. Slovenia is one big country, it has 12 statistical regions, but we are all Slovenians whether it is in Prekmurje, in Zasavje or in Primorska. I love all the places and people and Misko Kranjec wrote that this is a land of honest and good people. It seems to me that these people, because they are good and honest, are worthy of health care, and I hope that all those who will be able to hear me in about an hour or two have made up their minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much again. We have also tabled these amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party. To ensure that the means of providing health care in demographically threatened areas are returned at least to the level that it had previously been. Because we find it unacceptable and unfair to people who are already deprived of their access to health services, whether in Prekmurje, White Krajina, Dolenjska or anywhere in Slovenia, there are many such areas. In particular, it seems to us that we have responded to this item from an item intended for the operation of the Physiotherapists' Chamber, which we know was essentially established in an illegal way. A number of complaints against the president of the Chamber have now fallen here, as well as some other actors, and it is unnecessary that these funds are now being earmarked for the functioning of this Chamber, which should also be stripped of public festivities. So that, at least I hope, there are enough arguments to support this amendment by the coalition, and that the funds will return to the level that was before this rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u261	Thank you. I see interest, so I'm reopening my applications. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. From 2000 to 2008, we developed criteria for how to implement health measures for demographically endangered areas. There are no such criteria for 2009. There are no harmonised criteria between the Office of the Government for Regional Development and the Ministry of Health, and on this basis there is no longer any legal basis for the payment of these funds. I think that's bad. That is why I expect the Government to do everything for 2009 so that the funds we are not earmarking for this area will return and supplement them, given that they will not be available for this area this year, as I think this is a very important measure. In Slovenia, people live in different locations and live of different quality, depending on health care and life expectancy. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that measures be taken to reduce these differences. However, in order not to remain unclear, these funds are never, nor are they now, when they are transferred, intended to finance any chamber, but are intended to finance emergency medical assistance. In order not to be irresponsible and, as has been said, deceived. That's clearly what the explanation says. However, I agree that for the following year, we expect this measure to remain and that the relevant services in the Government will prepare an appropriate legal basis for the continuation of the activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u263	Thank you. I see one hand. Are there any more hands? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I have to replicate my colleague. In no case can I understand and, even more so, justify the explanation that no legal basis has been drawn up so that these funds can also be made available. The first rebalancing was adopted in March and there was sufficient time if there was no legal basis for the Government or also in the National Assembly to produce it so that it could then be used in accordance with the legal basis. So she didn't apologize for that. And I think now is also enough time if these funds are returned to make a legal basis, even if it is only in December that these funds can be distributed. As for the conclusion or comment of colleague Germič that these funds were, after understanding my previous explanation, for the functioning of the Physiotherapists' Chamber, no, I explained earlier that the funds for the operation of the chamber under another heading were now taken away and intended to provide in a demographically threatened area. By withdrawing these funds from the second item as a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u265	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I also put into discussion at the Ministry of Health sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Before touching this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the recovery of funds from the institution's obligation to cover the institution's obligations to hospitals in the investment area, it is necessary to comment clearly, I have not mentioned any specific chamber, I am merely saying that the funds under this heading, i.e. for demographically threatened areas, are earmarked for emergency medical assistance. It's just that it was my explanation and nothing else, and it's just an explanation for the balance. However, it seems important to me in this amendment, which speaks of the fact that the funds that the Ministry or Government devotes to this other rebalancing should be made clear here that it is almost €7.5 million of investment funds for investments in public health institutions in the field of hospitals for the losses that have been made in the past period and here the Government, the current Government does not actually bear any responsibility, but rather assumes a certain institutional responsibility under the law that it must cover. And, of course, I expect that this is a single measure of this government, which must cover the poor conduct of some hospitals in the previous term, for which the founder should have taken a substantial different action in these institutions by then, in order to avoid these losses. But not to stay that this government is taking the investment money again because it doesn't want to invest. This must be done because of the threat to the existence of these institutions due to claims existing to these public institutions, which have been made in the past. But there's another thought I'd like to make here. We have set up a fund for investments in public health institutions and, with this year's rebalancing, first and second, we are taking substantial funds for investments in public health institutions from this fund. The responsibility and obligation of this government will be to provide sufficient resources in the coming years, sufficient resources to enable us to implement the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions and to respond adequately to all the needs of modern technology to ensure that we can have adequate quality in the implementation of these health services. This year, after ensuring this, it is not expected that investments will be made successfully as the programme was set up. Investments for 2010 and beyond are also mapped out from the Development Programme Plan, but this will, of course, require considerable efforts by the Government for these years to finance the investment plan planned under the Development Programme Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u267	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then we switch to the user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, namely the sub-programme, Sports Programmes. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We all probably gave our constituents and voters a promise before the election. So did I. Not here, but here, as ill-advised as it was, the Ljubljana mayor, but his constituents. I promised them in my Shishan district that I would not let the sports infrastructure, as Hal Tivoli is called, which is over 50 years old, go into oblivion. I also understand this obligation in the context of other sports investments in Ljubljana, which has been reduced in this respect by looking at the amount of investments that went to sports facilities in Slovenia. It's nice that smaller places get big school gyms, or it's a little less nice when it's necessary to maintain it and when there's no content to fill these gyms. But it is probably also nice that clubs of European importance have their own domicile, in which they are not ashamed to invite their opponents. This sports hall, Leon Šuklj, which was planned in the NRPs in the 2008 budget, has therefore been included in this amendment. As a co-signatory, I hope that some investment in sport can take place in Ljubljana not only with private funds. As far as the source is concerned, we've already told you about it. I don't think things like, I don't know, examples of our gymnastic champions, Petkovska, Pegana, when they invite their colleagues to a gym where they train and they don't believe that this is really the place where they've achieved all this knowledge and skill. In Slovenian politics, for example, gymnastics is mentioned only when it comes to the membership of the Mir Cerar Olympics in Forum 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u269	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. I must say that, for the same reasons that have already been stated several times today, this amendment cannot be supported. However, it must be said that I am aware that there is a need for sports halls and at the same time I hope that we are all aware of the need to save and not invest again in new sports halls, but if we are all trying to save as much as possible on investments. This is because in Ljubljana we have a military station, Franz Rozman Stane, where there is a large sports hall, which is always open to all the needs of the civil environment. Every Saturday and Sunday, and also every week, there are athletes, young people, students, children in various competitions and also in various forms of training by suggesting that those who currently have the need for sports activities this year actually come to visit and use the capabilities of the Slovenian Army. The same applies, of course, to all other sports halls, wherever they are in Slovenia and are in the composition of the military barracks. So invited. However, in the case of this amendment, excuse me, we would not like anything to be consumed again at the point of infrastructure and weapons capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u271	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then we go to the primary school subroutine. We have two amendments. Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. Allow me first of all, Madam Minister, to thank you for your action in Lithuania, by solving this problem in Yevnica with this Ponton bridge, and I must be honest with you - it is very difficult for me to defend this amendment by collecting everything from the Ministry of Defence. But my main purpose is that, if the amendment does not go through, I should point out above all that we do not have an Intervention Fund for primary education investments in primary education, while for general, secondary and vocational education it has this item. Just as the unfortunate night that happened in Lithuania when this bridge in Yevnica was carried away, there was a school in this village. And this school is going to have to be rehabilitated, and from this point of view, I've seen that this item should be trying to solve this problem. I was warned that in previous budgets this item was in this part, and I find it really strange that it is not at the primary school, while it is at the secondary school. That's all I'd have to say. And again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u273	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u274	Let me repeat that this amendment cannot be supported for the reasons already stated. And let me say that the Ponton Bridge, as we had in the Yevnica, costs about EUR 250,000.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u275	Anyone else on this subroutine? Nobody. Then we move on to the help subroutine in secondary school. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Culture, first of all we have the first subroutine of Lover Culture. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. When I read this amendment, I was appalled, not because he's giving extra money to a lover's culture, but because of its perfidity, because of where he's taking the funds for it. The author of this amendment would, in my opinion, deserve a lifetime of membership, not in this high choir, not in some cultural institution, but in what I think is a racist organization like Blood and Arms. Indeed, it is a shame that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should even deal with such a proposal. It's nice, of course, to devote to a loving culture, there's never too much money for that if you ask me. I am also the president of the Cultural Art Society France Prešeren from Ljubljana Trnov, the society will be 90 years old this year, it was briefly established in 1919. One of his first tasks was to organize accommodations, tents and food for coastal refugees who came to live in Yugoslavia after World War I. And because of this, I am particularly sensitive because the role of this cultural society during the Balkan Calvary in the past decade has been such that it has helped various refugees, children how to integrate them into Slovenian society, how to socialize them, how to offer them a safe environment in which they can feel normal again after all, they learn to sing, play, the skills of Slovenian, in short one normal child's life. And to take on the internal affairs regulation items, which pay for things that Slovenian police must carry out in accordance with the law, the Law on International Protection and Under-Laws, is a crime, I think. We're part of a civilized world here, at least we're supposed to be, and in a world like this, some kind of rule applies to such refugees, some kind of hospitality. People need to be offered asylum. It is normal to offer them a hygiene check-up and these things. It is also normal for all those who want to stay here in the short term to offer a Slovenian language course, a course in cultural learning, history and constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia, and in short all activities related to the acquisition of school education. How can someone in Slovenia, whose demographic image is, what is worrying, deny people these resources? What is particularly bad is this, and this too is not exactly the pride of the Ministry of the Interior. The Slovenian language course is not conducted according to my knowledge. The rule in this area is flawed if it is written at all. The course on learning about culture, history and constitutional arrangements is just as much as if we did not want this country to be more numerous, so that we could be more, in short, more easily tackled by the challenges of an ageing society. I don't know if anyone here would be embarrassed to find a citizen of Slovenia, naturalized, a black man who would be educated, who would even speak foreign languages, perhaps even German? Shameful. Of course, this amendment cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u277	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then we move on to the Cultural Investment Sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. That's it. We are moving on to the Development Programme Plan. Anyone want to talk about the Development Programme Plan? Nobody. This concludes the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place today following the adjournment of the meeting. We have yet to discuss the proposal for a full budget rebalancing, I apologize, we are not yet going to the vote. So, in the debate, I am putting forward the proposal for a full budget rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. This concludes the debate. Since there are not enough Members in the Chamber, I call for them to join us because we will continue to vote. I'm adjourning the choir session in five minutes. We will continue with the vote at 10:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u278	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a decision on the general proposal for a budget rebalancing. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. For the budgetary user, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in place and worldwide, under the sub-programme Support to Slovenians, in place and abroad. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With regard to the budgetary user, the Ministry of the Interior under the sub-programme, we are voting on the first amendment. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the user of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. We vote on the sub-programme Preparedness of the system for protection, rescue and assistance. We vote on the amendment tabled. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Justice. In the framework of the Justice Regulatory Sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment tabled. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economy. Under the sub-programme Promoting Small Economy Development, we are voting on the amendment. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the sub-programme Promoting the development of tourism and hospitality, we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Under the sub-programme of the Rural Development Programme, we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the sub-programme, we are voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. (For the vote was 22.)(against 47.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. For this same budgetary user, under the sub-programme, we are voting on a second amendment for the operation of services and public institutions. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Transport under the sub-programme of the Road Construction Fund. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 44. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Under the sub-programme Investment maintenance and construction of state roads, we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 64. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Directorate for Investment Management of the JJI. In the framework of the Sub-programme Investment Activities on Rail Infrastructure, we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Under the sub-programme Improvement of the environment, we are voting on the first amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 48. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In this same framework of the Environment Improvement Programme, we are voting on the second amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 50. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to a subroutine to promote housing. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 47. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs under the sub-programme Ensuring social inclusion. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under the Study Aid sub-programme. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 27 to 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health. We are voting on the amendment under the sub-programme Editing and Monitoring the Health System. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 to 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the sub-programme Health in demographicly threatened areas, we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u279	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll repeat, Goričko, Prekmurje, Prekmurje plain, good people, and you're already starting problems in the health field. You've already started. It is €331 000, which is large from one point of view or little from another point of view. It's about people who have to have who deserve health care and support. Emphasis, health care and support. People who need a visit from a doctor at home who do not have long distances or tiredness, because of sickness, hard work on the plain that fed us, kept Slovenia, and sometimes our country of Yugoslavia. People need help. People need basic health care. Think about what's worth more. 331 000 euros for the people who have earned this help, which are our people, good people, or more importantly, that this budget of 331 000 euros will be balanced. I think that it would be possible, in the context of the rebalancing, if this amendment were adopted, whether it is the SDS amendment or the Slovenian national parties, to find a balance of this balance quickly, today. I know about the government's position, but this time it's more important how people feel about the people who need it -- the people who need it. Make up your mind, on your own conscience. We will, of course, and you will, as you wish. But remember, it's a few tens of thousands of people in one of the statistical regions called Goričko, Prekmurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under this same sub-programme, we are voting on a second amendment. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the sub-programme Investment investments in hospitals we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Ministry of Education and Sport. We are voting on the amendment under the sub-programme Sport Programmes. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 49. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the sub-programme, we are voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme, we are voting on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In the framework of the Secondary Education Aid Sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user of the Ministry of Culture. Under the sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? The 2nd Amendment? Yes, we will now continue to vote on the first amendment. I'm the only one who knows where I'm looking and who I'm looking at, so I'd like to ask you not to speculate about other people's views. So, we're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] In the framework of the Cultural Investment Sub-programme, we are voting on the amendment Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[...]] Zvonko Černač, Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u281	All I had to do was raise my hand earlier. Thank you very much. Smarter to give up, they say, because of this earlier in the controversy about justification [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u282	Explanation of vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u283	I did not advertise investments in a telecommunications network for which there is no basis in the current legislation. [[...]] However, since the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has both justified this amendment and many other amendments by means of this item, we have earmarked from this item an increase in funds for small economies, active employment policy, investment, roads, health care, agriculture, sport and culture, as is the case in this amendment. Ensure the return on investments in the telecommunications network. I think it's right to explain again why we did it. It is not because of the fact that the return on investments that normally takes place through the Slovenian Indemnity Society since the adoption of the Law on the Return of Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, which is a good law, is not confused, as stated by the Secretary of State, but because Mrs Helena Kamnar is on the Committee on Finance on 23 March at the first reading of the Balance on my question if the State directs the Court of Justice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u284	Dear colleague Chernač, this is not an explanation for the vote regarding the amendment. This is a controversy with a secretary of state who can't answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u285	There's no controversy. The State will order the Court not to go into debt for these purposes. To which, two months later, on the committee, we discussed the Soda Loan Guarantee Act of 180 million, where the same lady explained that the reason why the Court should carry out this obligation is in return for investments in telecommunications. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u286	Mr. Chernač, this is a complete abuse of the explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u287	So we will support this amendment in the parliamentary group, because this does not cover any of the areas. Despite the adoption of the Guarantee Act for these purposes by the Slovenian Compensation Society, we have €36 million in the balance sheet for these purposes. After the adoption of the guarantee law to the Slovenian Compensation Society there is, of course, no need, there has been no legal basis before. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that these funds, which are not required in the budget, because they are provided in the budget of the Slovenian Compensation Society, for which the National Assembly at the May meeting has also adopted the Guarantee Act, are intended for other more necessary things, support for the small economy, health care, investment, sport and here in this amendment, as you can see, also culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u288	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 28. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the specific part of the proposal for the budget rebalancing has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 21. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget balance for revenue and expenditure is harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u289	We note that it is harmonised and that there is no need for harmonisation amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-11.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Since the budget balance is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the 2009 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia in full. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the 2009 Rebalance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
