ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the continuation of the 5th National Assembly meeting. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Victory by Jelinčič Trimeniti, Villa Rezman, Joško Godec, Matjaž Zanoškar, Marijan Pojbič and Daniel Krivec. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS TO CONDUCT THE PROBLEM OF THE SUB-FINANCING OF SLOVENIA RTV AND THE CULTURAL SPECIES ON PUBLIC RTV AND REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE GLOBAL COUNCIL OF SLOVENIA IN THE summer of 2008. The work of the RTV Supervisory Board in 2008 was presented by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and by the RTV Supervisory Board in Slovenia. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Majda Potrat for further explanation of the material. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, distinguished representative of the Supervisory Board. Members and Members of Parliament. In these five minutes, I should present two reports to you, so allow me to just walk through both of them on the run, because you have them in printed form and maybe there is something else I can explain. At its 4th regular session, on 24 February 2009, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth addressed material entitled Addressing the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV, which was submitted by the National Council for Culture under Article 17, paragraph 17, of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. At the meeting of the Committee, all of whom were invited to this point by the National Council for Culture. The Committee first listened to the rapporteur, Mitja Chandru, who, on behalf of the National Council for Culture, said that they had already paid special attention to culture within television and radio programmes on several occasions. According to the National Council for Culture, however, the main problem arising from problems, both financial and conceptual, is the decision that the RTV contribution is nominally the same all the time. In his view, the actions by the RTV management to respond to the problems of sub-financing were not appropriate. The consequences of these are the marginalisation of cultural shows and the mediation of successful commercial shows in the so-called "prime-time". However, public television cannot compete with commercial televisions on their territory in such a way that it can be released into some ruthless game for viewers. The National Council for Culture wants culture to be as integrated as possible in all spheres of television programmes, as the latter can be a generator for the development of a society. Her position on the subject was also expressed by the Minister of Culture. For the conclusion only, with regard to the funds received from RTV Slovenia from the RTV contribution, she explained that they account for as much as 67% of the total RTV budget and that the balance of the budget would increase by one euro. She warned that this euro is necessary to improve the functioning of the public service and to remedy the current situation. In the discussion, the members and members of the Committee focused on the presence of cultural content on public RTV, the announced increase in RTV contributions, the unintended use of dedicated means of digitisation, the commercialisation of RTV Slovenia, the public interest of RTV and the rationalisation of the RTV Programme Council. The Committee also adopted two decisions. In one of them, he proposes to the National Assembly to hold a debate. It was foreseen for 25 March 2009, which is said to be before the rebalancing process, and the Committee also proposed that the National Assembly adopt a decision, for which you have already received an amendment in writing to this point. The amendment responds to the late treatment of this point because the rebalancing and ZIPRO have already been adopted. The report on the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia in 2009 was also discussed by the Committee at its 5th session on 7 April and the first on 9 April, under Article 27 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, submitted to the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia for consideration. Mr Tomaž Glajar, Minister and Head of RTV, participated in the work of the Committee. The report also contains some proposals for decisions; initially there were five; the proposals of the third and fourth decisions caused obstruction of the opposition and, in the event of obstruction of SDS Members and Members of the SDS, SLS and SNS, four conclusions were adopted, of which four are relevant for this hearing. You also have an audit report, and this report of the Supervisory Board is also part of the item that we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia to Mr Franc Oresnik for further explanation of the Report on the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia in 2008. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u4	Your Honor! First of all, a nice and friendly greeting on behalf of the Supervisory Board of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. In the time I have been given, I would like to give you some key points in the last year. First of all, I would like to point out in particular that our work has always been focused on respect for and follow-up to the applicable legislation. We have worked in accordance with the principles and competences set out in the Statute and have regularly informed the competent institutions about our work. Our work has been proactive, our work has been independent, our work has been professional and up-to-date, in short, responsible, as required by the work of the supervisory councils, in particular in these crisis situations. The Supervisory Board notes that the financial operation of the public institution has been positive in the past year. Financial operations are also positive during the first trimester of this year. During the period of crisis which reached the end of last year, the global economy entered into liquidity and financial stability, despite the fact and need to cover the increased share of labour costs due to the restructuring of the pay system. In order to achieve a positive result, the Institute has implemented a number of austerity measures in the form of cost reductions, in particular business costs, and the search for ways to increase revenue. The fact that the accounts are a genuine and fair representation of the financial situation and the state of the institution also confirms the audit report carried out; this report was carried out in accordance with international auditing standards. The Supervisory Board reviewed all the areas of operation and operation of the Public Institute, which were pointed out by the Court of Auditors, the audit houses, as well as the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth of the National Assembly, and requested management action. Certain shortcomings have already been made and are set in the implementation phase, as they require a longer period of time for their implementation. The focus on monitoring and action has also been on meeting the legal requirement for the separate and transparent use of public resources for the public service and also for the field of human resources policy, in particular on the employment of part-time workers, because we have also taken a number of measures, which are also conclusions in the stage of implementation. In particular, our work was aimed at controlling the use of development funds linked to the Eutelsat shares and bonds of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the three-year plan and spending criteria. I would like to point out that we have confirmed the use of these funds on the proposal of the development project management, and for the programming projects we have obtained the consent of the Programme Council. In the event that we have identified derogations from the objectives set, we have requested action by those responsible, in terms of limiting the use of funds, their reallocation or even the return to the Development Fund. Furthermore, I would like to stress in particular that so far no share of Eutelsat has been sold. Their market value at the end of last year was about. 42 million euros. It is true, however, that in 2008 it was sold for 4.2 million bonds in the Republic of Slovenia. The development projects so far have been largely financed by the yields of tied assets in bonds and shares or by the means of the current operation of the public institution, which means that the current total value of the development funds is entirely sufficient to complete the digitisation project and remains dedicated to that end. To conclude, regardless of the size of the public institution and the dispersion of its activities, I estimate that the Supervisory Council has achieved high standards of supervision with its activities, which are few supervisory councils, and I am sure that we can only upgrade these standards, but only with the support of all of us, regardless of political affiliation, because Slovenia needs public national television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u6	Respectable. "Only 7,000 euros costs a better camera than the one I have," said one cameraman yesterday, who was struggling with an old camera: "Renewing the RTV Slovenia entrance hall cost 750 000 euros," he said. Interesting, very fair parable of the situation in RTV Slovenia. We wonder if anyone feels that this renovation was necessary or unnecessary. However, it must be of interest to us whether it has been decided in a prudent manner whether it has been paid from funds earmarked for development programmes, i.e. from provisions saved for modernisation, for digitisation, for technological renewal. Because RTV has to finish it in a few years. From this RTV silver, many such issues were financed with the wishes of the Programme Council, leadership and the approval of the Supervisory Council: the Telenovela of Passion, 1.3%, the brother's nuisance, the parliamentary programme, wages, the project to improve relations with the public, the purchase of premises at Komenski for 4 million, etc. You asked supervisors and RTV Slovenia about all of this on the Committee on Culture. So why did they invest in projects that made financial problems worse because of the four years of the frozen contribution and the new wage system of the house in financial difficulties? Drago Jančar observed last year at the National Council for Culture that Radio Slovenia should become a cultural institution "par excellence". He said: "As we have already found in the debate on culture under the programmes of Television Slovenia, it can also be observed in radio programmes that culture is disappearing from central information shows." That's what he said. It was said that the debate at the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly had recently been a political lynch of the public institution. However, not politics, but cultural authority in the NSK already pointed out the marginalisation of cultural shows, the reduction of original own production and the spread of questionable commercial content. They warned that "public television should strive for the viewer in a cultural way and should not be underestimated and humiliated by populism." And I continue to quote, "The RTV has lost its battle with commercial television. It should be burdened by some aspects of commercialisation," wrote the open letter even members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council with Mr. Grando, Štuhec, Kos, Grill and others at the head. When the power was replaced, there was an unfreeze of RTV contributions which the government's political dictatorship, Janez Janša, had not wanted to change since the referendum. It is the contribution or you, at the time of the rebalancing, that you have defrosted the institution in order to address the principles that make RTV in the public interest. We wanted to, you wanted to, stop the trend of exhaustion of those reserves that RTV should invest in development. We wanted to, you wanted to stop the trend where the money for licensed broadcasts such as Pyramid went from development funds, where the own production of audiovisual parts of independent producers required by the only cultural directive remained unattainable today. There were many arguments for a higher contribution, including that the programme was being cultivated. Perhaps we have, perhaps by increasing your contribution, extinguished only a fraction of the fire, perhaps the fire is still too much and needs to be talked about. Also to make this dialogue a better marriage than we have now, and we are preparing it. The RTV management considers that there was no argument on the committee. However, every record of the Supervisory Board is full of arguments; more are there than in the commissioned house audit, where auditors eventually distance themselves from their own audit work. And the records of the Programme Council are also full of arguments and meaningful debates, from the fact that in HriBar's show they do not distinguish between wit and vulgarity, to who should perform on Emma. The Court of Auditors informed us yesterday of the reckless distribution of budget money from the so-called media pluralisation fund. They confirmed the criticisms of this fund, critics who had been attributed a political note to them in the previous government. The same is true today when, on television and in the opposition, they believe that every doubt is already political opportunism. It is therefore necessary to know something: when competent institutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u7	Madam Minister, time is up. Finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u8	they enter the intestines of the balance of accounts, they must be trusted. [[...]] And you will vote on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister, President of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, the National Council for Culture has repeatedly addressed the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth has also presented the initiative to discuss this issue with a view to providing conclusions and conclusions. Thus, it was also concluded, inter alia, that RTV Slovenia, as a public institution of special importance, was obliged to carry out a number of functions prescribed by the RTV Act. A few years of non-coordination of RTV Slovenia’s contribution to inflation has led to the sub-funding of the institution and consequently to the walking of the performance of individual functions, including those relating to the production of cultural content at the national institution. The effect of the Law on RTV Slovenia, adopted by the previous coalition, is as obvious. Janšina's ruling coalition promoted it at the September 2005 referendum with slogans: "For a better RTV programme and for a lower RTV contribution." They therefore promised a lower contribution to a better programme, but this did not happen. Unreal promises demanded their tax. Sub-financing was responded by the management to commercialisation, purchase of licences and financing of bonds and shares in commercial projects. The promises were that there would be no repetition, and now the repetition is so much so that the head hurts. Now and for some time now, we have been facing the negative effects of this law. We are facing commercialisation, politicisation and financial problems of RTV Slovenia. We are particularly reminded of this by the open letter from some members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which we can understand as a kind of express confidence in themselves, since they had all this time scissors and canvas in their hands. With an express view, they write, on RTV Slovenia, which should be an example of the culture of our inter-human relations, the culture of social and social coexistence of people, the cultural treatment of our nature and historical heritage, that is, the natural and historical heritage and the culture of civilized and democratic dialogue, the political dialogue, they also tell us that in the spirit of these expectations RTV Slovenia needs to relieve non-cultural commercialisations, where advertising is only the top of the iceberg - so again, advertising should only be the top of the iceberg - and that RTV Slovenia, as they say, should read, should become the media - so that is not - on which objective assessment of events and phenomena in our national communities will not or will not be able to influence the various capital political pressures. In fact, after four years of operation, when we should prevent all negative phenomena and actions, we are told that they are facing commercialisation, politicisation and the need for funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. With all these warnings about the problems facing the public RTV Slovenia, it is necessary to ask for reasons for such a situation. According to the LDS Club, these roots are already in the way they are adopted and in the content of the RTV Slovenia Act, which consequently also affected the later negative phenomena of commercialisation and politicisation, leading to a decrease in the representation of content in the public interest. In fact, it is very difficult to choose the best among the evidence of how politics interfered with the work of the public institution RTV Slovenia, either directly or indirectly. The main reason is already the fact that the RTV Act was written by an MP and it has long failed to recognise its authorship. Dear colleague Branko Grims, along with former Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti, deceived the entire public in Slovenia for two years, claiming that the law was written by prominent domestic and foreign experts. But, look, the author of the RTV Act is himself. He himself praised this year after the referendum at the interpretation of Dr Simoniti, October 2006. I quote: "The author is not Klemen Jaklič, I am the only author of the law from the first to the last sentence, including press errors." Suddenly, there's no more talk about media professionals. Member Grims, who is famous for his demagogic rhetoric, who belongs to a party that is famous for its political exclusion, which is the author of the law, all the more insists that the law on RTV will be unpolitical. Who could believe such a story? Unfortunately, people at the referendum on the RTV Act believed that. Today, however, we are facing problems of sub-funding and debate on problems, whether the public institution is pursuing its mission. I would also point out a series of unreasonable actions in the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, which could be linked to politicisation. These actions have been demonstrated through various violations of journalistic and professional standards, which mainly include cases of work suspensions, bullying, political pressures, bias, interference with programme content. Let me just say some. Suspenz Vide Petrovčič, intolerance in the Pyramid show, working suspension of Slovenian Radio Journalist Robert Škerjanec for reporting on the Owl affair, removal of the editor of the Studio at 17. Sandy Frelich, pushing the HriBar show in late time and you could still list. As the most important example, Vide Petrovčič, who is an excellent economic commentator, seems now to have moved forever among leaders in ommis, yoga and culinary. That's today. And what was her sin? It's just that she resented the former Ministry of Finance. On the contrary, the responsible editor of TV Slovenija Rajko Gerič suddenly found that the work was incompetent, inexperienced, so to speak. The director of TV Slovenia Jože Možina starts suddenly after the broadcast of the Heart 7. Ten. 2006 when it asked the Minister a seemingly unpleasant question, to find out the same. In connection with the financial business of RTV Slovenia, however, it is necessary to say that we have heard from RTV management first about the lack of funds, the same warnings were able to be heard in connection with the sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and also cultural content by the National Council for Culture. Then we received a statement from the same management of 9. 4. 2009 how it acted as a good master to operate without loss after many years and to cover losses from previous years. Therefore, the reasonable question is whether it was necessary to increase the contribution to the RTV subscription by one euro? By changing the opinions of the current management, we have also witnessed a debate in the 2008 report on the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia and in the examination of the material provided by the management of RTV Slovenia to the mother's working body. So the Director-General, Mr Anton Guzei, wrote to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, and to the youth of 17. 3. 2009 The subject of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and the cultural content of the public RTV and the continuation, on the fifth page, I quote, "It is no longer necessary to record that the institution has not submitted any shares of Eutelsata so far", and on the next page, I quote, "For the purposes of modernising and digitising technological processes, digitising archives and regulating spatial issues of RTV centres, we have carried out several development projects on RTV Slovenia, in addition to regular investments, financed by dividends and sale of Eutelsat shares." It is fair to admit that Mr Guzei has made it clear in the debate that no share of Eutelsat has been sold and that it is a mistake. But it is quite unusual that in the report of the Radiotelevision Supervisory Board of Slovenia there is also a special chapter entitled 'Euthelsat Shares' with code 2.6. It was very unconvincing to explain that it was only funds from dividends. Is it always about mistakes and mistakes? How does the Supervisory Board then register in its decision at its 27th regular meeting on 24 July 2008 to agree with the proposal of the Committee on Economic Control to carry out an audit of all projects financed from the use of the assets of RS bonds and Eutelsat shares for 2008? Here, too, it will be interesting to know how many of these funds have been collected, which were not available according to the amount of dividends and the amount of investments provided for in this title. The Supervisory Board has not fully carried out its tasks, but it must be acknowledged that it has done a great deal of work. Therefore, it notes itself in its decision on the use of development funds in 2007 at its 22nd meeting on 28 February, as it did not provide timely and ongoing information by the RTV management on the use of development funds per project during the financial year. The shortcomings in the work of the Supervisory Board can also be concluded when monitoring the correction of errors and irregularities in audit reports. In doing so, no reply was given as to whether their order was carried out, i.e. ordered the Director-General to appoint a project group to remedy the deficiencies. There are still open questions about the purpose of spending development resources, the implementation of a digitisation project, or the use of development funds for purposeless purposes. There is still an open debate in the air about the daily continuation of Passion and it is still an open question whether and why development funds were also used to buy real estate. Although RTV provided an audit report on the operation of the public service company RTV Slovenia for 2008 by the audit company ABC audit, it does not provide any assurance in its conclusions. It is necessary to reiterate that this audit evaluation does not, in its conclusions, provide any assurance for the conduct of the institution in relation to development projects, public procurement, copyright and enforcement rights, productions and co-productions and claims. Therefore, in the LDS Club we support the decision of the parent working body that the audit of the operation of RTV Slovenia will also be carried out by the Court of Auditors. Of course, in support of this decision, we are also convinced by the letter we received recently, which is from the Slovenian Journalists' Union, which speaks of illegal conduct and contentious conduct in relation to all workers, part-time employees of RTV Slovenia, where we are also reminded that the Court of Auditors, which carried out the 2004 audit, has been alerted by a report in 2006, that the irregularities found are not remedied and that such a situation in RTV Slovenia is still continuing. We will also support the decision of the coalition parliamentary groups in the LDS Parliamentary Club. We rightly expect that public RTV will follow the implementation of the fundamental mission as an autonomous institution of national importance, which has been threatened by the failure to align RTV with inflation and the resulting sub-funding of the public institution. In conclusion, I would say that the supporters of Grims' Law with a desant on RTV Slovenia have created the media, which, and still helps them to produce an appropriate coloured picture of reality, and sooner or later helps them to forget about reality at all. All this burden makes sense to reflect on the new RTV Act, which will not be based exclusively on political, but on an analytical professional basis, by ensuring public interest within the framework of the basic mission of the public institution RTV Slovenia, as an institution of special cultural and national importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Before I make it procedural, let me just explain that I do not normally interrupt or alert representatives to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. All of you who have been mentioned, whether you will be mentioned or hurt, will have more than enough time and opportunity to respond to this. Procedurally please, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u12	Yes, Mr President, the continuation of what you started yourself, you are aware that you have violated the rules of procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u13	Of course not, Mr Jerovšek, on the contrary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u14	a Member representing the position on behalf of the Group of Members has disputed with a specific Member. [[...]] This is a major violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm aware that the Minister of your party is already the minister's appearance was a pamphlet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u15	Procedural, please. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u16	I'll present a procedural proposal at the end. [[....]] The minister's performance was a typical pamphlet. The current performance was also "Pampletical". You should warn him because colleague Germič has enough room and time to present his views, including attacks, as an individual. Then I won't protest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u17	Dear colleague Jerovšek, you are now embroiling, debating and interrupting the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please limit yourself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u18	Allow me to make a procedural proposal. [[....]] Because it was a violation of the rules because you're doing it because the goal is increasing funds. The objective of this mandate is to make state television and to allow everything. Mr President, if you are unable to do so, because the Minister is from your party, this meeting could be conducted professionally and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the National Assembly, if you are under severe pressure, then give up the chairmanship of the Vice-President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u19	Dear Mr Jerovšek, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. The reasons for the Rules of Procedure during the course of the sitting itself, of course, are used by the chairmen, and I do so. I have made my views clear and reject all your views. Of course, I cannot put your proposal to any vote because it is not designed like this either. We continue with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mr László Göncz, Italian and Hungarian National Communities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Supervisory Board. Today's presentation will only take place from the point of view of national RTV programmes so that there will be no mistake. In the case of national RTV programmes, much has been done in 2008, both in quantitative terms and in qualitative terms of national radio and television programmes. The qualitative shift in positive terms has also been seen in the area of programmes that are substantively classified in the scope of cultural programming sets. In 2008, additional financial resources were provided, which was necessary to carry out a preliminary activity at a level that ensures at least some normal implementation of the RTV programmes' nationalities. Of course, there are still outstanding issues regarding the programmes of the two indigenous national communities. In the case of Hungarian National Community programmes, there are still some open questions, particularly with regard to creating better conditions for the implementation of professional activities, as well as the TV broadcast time is not in line with the expectations of the community, but we are trying to carry out these problems on a planned basis. We want to solve problems consistently and on the basis of clear professional criteria and positions. In doing so, we do not want unnecessary conflicts to occur in relation to the nationalities of the media - the country and the Hungarian national community - the Italian national community. In the latter case, it is particularly important that external factors do not create unnecessary friction between communities, which also have a lot of specific characteristics within their programmes, so we do not insist on finding common denominators at all costs where this is virtually impossible. However, in the context of the Hungarian community, which is in a much worse situation in this area, we are following a more successful work on the coast, which has emerged on the basis of historical facts, and I think there is nothing wrong with it, but there must be a sufficient measure of tolerance, sobriety, cooperation and understanding. In the framework of the legislation last year, the conditions for resolving the bilingual supplement have also been created. Unfortunately, this has not been realized in practice to date because financial resources, despite an unequivocal legal provision, are still not available to date. When we are talking about the financial undernutrition of RTV Slovenia, although this has already happened this year, I must mention that unfortunately there are currently no conditions for the implementation of the basic activities of the national programmes at last year's level, since our proposals for the adoption of the budget rebalancing have been rejected. While the government promises to try to resolve the situation in part, this has not yet happened. The overall financial sub-nutrition of RTV Slovenia has therefore also been reflected in the preparation of programmes for the Hungarian and Italian national communities, and we hope that the increase in RTV will also improve slightly in this area. Unfortunately, in the case of RTV programmes of the national communities, no concrete agreement has been reached in 2008 and no later than that between the State and the Government and the RTV management on the financing of the share of national programmes from the state budget. We believe, and this also follows from the report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, that now, with the increase in the subscription, the time is right for the agreement between the Government, the competent national authorities and the RTV leadership to determine concrete shares. We also support the Court of Auditors' assessment of the situation in RTV and only on the basis of concrete assessments of the work of RTV management and the Supervisory Board, or on their impact, we want to create clear positions. Finally, I would like to stress that the proposed amendment to the proposal for the initial decision of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth is acceptable, at least for me, and in this form I will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, President of the Supervisory Council, Members and Members of Parliament! I will introduce the position of the Group of Social Democrats with three quotations. The first document, from which I will refer, is the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011, which was adopted at the 37th regular meeting on 2 April last year, which will read only three small passages from this work, which discuss the concern for the presence of cultural content in the media: "Cultural policy will encourage the media to create and disseminate cultural content that is in the public interest while respecting their independence." I miss part of the text and go on: "In the information society, culture and art are opening up new creative and communication possibilities, so general development without culture and art in the public, it is said, in the centre of reflection on man and the world, is impossible to imagine." And this part concludes with these words: "Cultural policy should aim to ensure that the media in Slovenia become more and more diverse focal points of cultural ideas, new debates and art, but should respect their editorial independence consistently." From the point of view of these three passages and the placement of cultural content in the media, the Group of Social Democrats makes sense to discuss the presence of cultural content on public RTV. The vast majority probably felt that way at the time, as the resolution was adopted without a vote against, with 52 votes in favour. We Social Democrats have expressed our views on culture, and we have also told the media about it in our programming documents. Just a brief quote from the alternative government programme: "For Social Democrats, there are two fundamental conditions for media freedom and autonomy: independence and professional competence of journalists and editors, based on regulated social status, and a strong civil society that must have a decisive impact on the programming content of public media." And here we are with civil society and an independent institution called the National Council for Culture. Under the legal provisions, the Committee is obliged to consider the request of the National Council as a parent of the labour force within 60 days. And the committee did it. During this time, however, we received letters from Members and Members of the 13 members of the Programme Council, who clearly felt the need to represent cultural content and turned to the National Assembly, the State Council and the Government by letter, and to all the Slovenian public and pointed out commercialisation, the impossibility of a public television competition with commercial programmes. In the fourth paragraph, they wrote: "RTV Slovenia must, in the spirit of these expectations, relieve the uncultured commercialisation in which advertising is only the top of an icy mountain, by moving its funding to the state budget's care independently of that or that of a ruling political entity." This concern also raises the issue of financing public RTV programmes. In the debate at the 4th regular session of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, Mitja Chander, on behalf of the National Council for Culture, drew attention to basic programming concerns, to the placement of programme content, to the decline of viewers and, of course, to the fact that RTV's leadership has tried to respond to the problem, namely, to the competition with commercial stations with sub-financiality - with this conceptual solution, which is to say that the measure of commercialisation of the programme, the purchase of licensing shows, the investment of money from bonds in commercial projects, for example, was likely to compensate for the financial deficit, but an inadequate conceptual solution. An invited expert, an FDV professor, commented, among other things. If you have looked closely at the data, then you can see that the ratings of some cultural shows such as the Fifth Element, Pisas, Image Similarities and so on in the last few years, i.e. since the change of leadership, have fallen by 80%. Is it really just a matter of not being interested in these contents, or does it show a reason to change the time frame in which these broadcasts are playing? Although we were accused in the debate of discussing things without proof, to mention the words of editor Jani Virk, responsible editor of the artistic and production unit cultural and artistic program: "A long year ago we had on public television one game piece per month, we had stage, ballet, original layout, which we can no longer do now, we had a children's track, which, as mentioned earlier, public television is the only domicil of children's films, continuing. There was also talk about specific figures that made it impossible for cultural content to be more representative on television. For there remains only four million for all original documentary, children's, youth, education, religious program, cultural programmes and music program. The concerns are therefore concrete; they are also indicated by evidence or by the opinions of the people responsible for the programme, so it is difficult to accept the obvious that the concerns and questions raised were not sufficiently substantiated. Similarly, anything related to the use of development funds could be cited. The Supervisory Board authorised the use of development funds for the continuation of Passion of €1.5 million, which was financed by development funds. Also, according to the Director-General, the company did not sell any shares, it has already been quoted on page 6 of the report as having sold shares or bonds. If a house itself sends from its kind a document signed by the Director-General, this is probably something that Members can refer to and resist their questions. Development funds raise the question of what the criteria for the use of development funds are. Whether investment, even a variety of other things, can be considered, after all, a driving fleet is considered to be an appropriate use of development resources. The second set of questions to be answered was the question of what is happening to RTV employees. Finally, the 2004 Court of Auditors report highlighted this problem in particular. We have not received a precise answer about the number, the level of satisfaction of employees with salaries, from where we are now at one time not to mention that the data on labour costs were very different. Once it was said that labour costs amount to 60% of RTV expenditure, secondly it was said to represent 47% of the expenditure. In particular, I stress that they are part-time employees on RTV; we are also convinced of this by the letter from the company of journalists we have received; and by the difficulties they face, when they are working on RTV for a long time, they cannot also get regular jobs. We were not just those from coalition parties looking for arguments for the feeding of cultural content in programs, although leadership has shown us that this is not true, and it is probably 43% less than 45%. 43% in 2008 - 45 in 2009. Drago Jančar also drew attention to the problem that we are discussing today. It is therefore necessary to reiterate the need to draw on and use public funds in accordance with the purpose and principles of a good master. The reference to the audit report, which was even reported in the media, was not addressed by the Committee because it was positive and the audit rolls were not submitted to the Committee in an appropriate manner. Let me say that the conclusion of the audit report simply states that this audit report is not prepared in accordance with Article 24 of the Audit Act. And that this report cannot be considered neither as an audit nor as an investigation in accordance with international auditing standards issued by the International Association of Accounting Experts. Therefore, this report does not provide any assurance on the conduct of the institution in relation to development projects, public procurement, copyright and enforcement rights, productions and co-productions and claims. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats agrees with the Committee's decision to have the Court of Auditors review the operation of RTV from 2005 to 2009, which would help to answer the questions raised. At the same time, the Group of Social Democrats will also support the amendment of the four coalition parties to the proposed decision, which speaks precisely of the need to direct funds, either from the RTV contribution now increased by one euro or from the budget, so that they can be said to have been spent deliberately, economically and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u24	Dear President, well-respected House Minister! Today's item has an amendment that has two parts are actually both works and the whole point is strongly benevolent, so it's easy to agree with them. So what are you hiding that you need to have 6 hours and 5 minutes to discuss? What's the report hiding? And what does it mean to call for more cultural content? It has a turbulent history, has at least two meetings of the Committee on Culture, Education and Youth, and they are both very different. At the first, we accepted an increase of €1 subscription, which is 10%, by the way, and recommended that RTV Slovenia take into account more cultural content. This recommendation is nothing, so to speak. For 200 years it has been called on in Slovenia to have more culture. More culture is so much like a good morning, it doesn't mean anything. So what's behind it? This was revealed at the 2nd meeting, which was also very common and innocently launched. This was the report of the Supervisory Board for Television and for the previous year 2008. In the debate itself, the panellists had no special comments on this report, except for a few comments from the Minister. I repeat, there have been no significant comments. The report showed that the company operated transparently, that its purchase was positive, that it had improved the long-term trend of financial undernutrition and, with all possible data, that it had not sold those shares, had not redistributed the funds in a way that it could not. In short, all these matters were made clear by the report, and it also advocated questions from Members. Then it got complicated with the conclusions that came to the table. These conclusions were quite different from the debate, entirely different from the findings of the participants in this debate. Let me read you two lines from every incriminated conclusion. Third: "With its decisions, the Supervisory Council of RTV Slovenia allowed that the public institution of RTV Slovenia did not fulfil its mission and its public service activities, which had an impact on the deterioration of the quality and universality of content." We didn't discuss this and it just wasn't real at the meeting. Fourth conclusion: "The Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia has not satisfactorily carried out its tasks and has not adequately supervised the operations of RTV Slovenia, in particular its legality, diligence and economy and financial operations in general." These words were also, with the true amazement of all, so to speak and written down all over again. We have not discussed this and this report has not been reported. What does that mean? If we consider what it means to be written, then we know that these conclusions attempted to incriminate the Supervisory Council itself, which would then withdraw, as the President of the Governing Council had foretold. So the plan was clear. Chaptering of the Supervisory Board and later of management. However, in order to make the matter a little more comical and interesting, it turned out that no one would want to admit who wrote these conclusions, that is, for the committee, the working body of the National Assembly to be unusual, since the parliamentary groups are so eloquently competing for their decisions to be adopted. They fight for it and boast about it. Then why would we hide who's the writer of these joints? When we asked the president of the Committee on Culture about this, she told us that the Rules of Procedure did not go to issue these conclusions. Since we have noted that she is not a writer of these conclusions, as she denied, Member Zares has come forward, and, of course, according to his charismatic thinking, he will resolve the situation by stating that he has written these conclusions. Somehow we explained to him that it was not possible to falsify the writing of someone else and give it to himself and then give it away. Now we ask ourselves, what would a parliamentary group or even a president hide, who wrote the conclusions? The answer is clear and clarified definitively later in Mr Grande's letter. The conclusions were written by the Minister herself. This, of course, constitutes an infringement, for the executive branch dictates the decisions of the legislative authority. This is, of course, contrary to the functioning of the National Assembly and is totally unhygienic. Later, of course, on the basis of all of this, when we tried to resolve these decisions, we decided in the parliamentary group not to take part in this conclusion and decided to obstruct ourselves. This obstruction was not alone and alone, and members of the National Party, Members of the People's Party and both members of minorities attended. The thing was a little awkward. Therefore, we listened carefully to further developments and found that even the applicant was unknown - a well-known proposaler found that things had gone too far and then rejected this decision in the vote itself. However, I wonder what would happen if the vote went normally without our obstruction going on. Would these two decisions also be adopted? She would be. I am convinced of what it means for the Governing Council to resign, and the leadership would soon be headed. That was the plan that went wrong. That is why I protest that the working body of the National Assembly is being abused in order to take charge of television, which is not a year away from the Ministry. Let's keep this clean. Let them be removed from their positions and not used by the Committee on Culture. That's it. But there's something else. We've heard a number of arguments. We haven't heard from the other side here, because there are a lot of people that only TV itself can be responsible for. We got everything we had on the table from the television analysis, where it says exactly that within a second TV policy did not feed cultural content. We all want more culture, too. We all want more culture in sight, but there was no malnutrition of culture. And that's what they proved. Of course, it was heard that this evidence was weak and that the analyst made it so that it was not real. But let's leave this little embarrassment alone, the same thing happens to finance. All the findings were rejected by the Supervisory Board and also by the Director of the Institute. However, they have not been taken into account and have been repeated today and no one competent to respond to them, since the director of the institution is not invited to this meeting. What can we conclude from all of this? First of all, it's a lynching of television leadership within the National Assembly, which is not needed in this way and it's happening where it wants to happen. The National Assembly should not take part in this lynching and therefore our Group of Members will vote against these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Supervisory Board, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Dear colleague Zorn, I am grateful that he actually taught us about the history of those two famous meetings of the committee. He did a great job as a lawyer for RTV senior management, and that was to be expected. It seems a little inconsistent, however, that a member of the SDS calls on the National Assembly not to interfere with questions concerning the Public Institute of RTV after the same party produced that famous Law on RTV, which is subordinated to the Office of RTV to the National Assembly, Policy and Government. If we are consistent, we should have been consistent three years ago; but then you were great advocates of the interference of the National Assembly with the public media. Let's move on. First, I would ask that we avoid further misunderstandings, Mr Oresnik, did he have in mind, when he spoke about the audit report, this document we received, this is the Auditor's report on the findings of the permitted procedures, on 3 April 2009? Is that it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u27	Mr Oreshnik can't answer, he doesn't have time for this, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u28	I am asking this because this is the only document we have received, which we now call the Auditor's report. I read from the document entitled "Construction of the issue of sub-financiality..." I know it bothers you, gentlemen of the SDS, but a little bit of tolerance. So I read from this document, which is called "Construction of sub-financing issues of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV", signed by the Director-General, Mr Anton Guzej. The third page reads: "It is not too much to record that the institution has not sold any Eutelsat Communication so far, and we sold the Republic of Slovenia bonds of EUR 4.2 million. These were spent on investment projects." On the sixth page, the following page of the same document reads: "For the purposes of modernisation and digitisation of technological processes, we have carried out several development projects on RTV Slovenia, in addition to regular investments, financed by dividends and sales of Eutelsat shares or interest and sale of bonds of the Republic of Slovenia." Hand to heart, it is necessary to be corrected, as Mr Germič did, and to say that Mr Guzej, the Director-General of the Home Committee, admitted, at least three times, that this was a mistake and that RTV Slovenia did not sell any shares. Mistake! Mistake! Perhaps we can trust the Director-General and the Supervisory Board and buy the the thesis that no shares have been sold. However, in the document that was presented to us as proof of the excellence of RTV Slovenia's behaviour, there is a mistake that fosters doubt as to the reliability of the obviously surface-prepared document. It is especially interesting, however, that a similar error occurs in the report of the Supervisory Board. Respectable choir, esteemed colleagues! So let's start with questions of reliability of arguments, which are sent by RTV Slovenia to all addresses and misleading the media and the public in order to confuse the real situation of RTV Slovenia. A little bit more about reliability or reliability. On the first page of the already mentioned document, signed by Anton Guze, we can read: "For the last four years, we have been doing positive business in the institution, although we have not raised the RTV contribution, because it has only fallen nominally. Nevertheless, we have paid great attention to all the content, especially to those resulting from cultural and artistic programmes. Interesting! If we follow the logic and the message of this paragraph, the decision can only be one: there are no problems in the RTV office and they do not suffer cultural content due to lack of money. Nice. Okay. Amazing, almost surreal. What do we need this discussion for anyway?Oh, my God! Employees in the institution where calls for change come from, of course, they are not important. Only Mrs Guzai, Mr Možina, Mr Vasle, Mr Granda, Mr Oresnik and others are reliable. They're just talking, and it's very loud. We really don't understand what we're doing to raise our subscription. We got these calls after the election, after the appointment of the new government, we heard that we had to raise the subscription if RTV didn't go down like that. And why would we increase this subscription and violate the political promise and commitment made by the founders of the RTV Act and the former prime minister and a well-known respected colleague of the right to RTV to pay less and receive more quality programs. Remember, comrades! Promises. These are the promises. With these promises, you have even received a referendum on a new law that has guided the will of the ruling policy and made it possible for the RTV system to rule, which is based on a well-known triumvirate: closer leadership of RTV, the programming world and the supervisory council. I'm talking about most of the members of these bodies. Well, not all of them. Since most members are politically reliable, in all three articles they triumvirate most of the audited personnel who ensure that the dirt does not come on the day. Clear! But they're doing it very embarrassingly. When we expose their fingers greased with marmalade, they get angry and start writing protest letters, bitter calls, blowing on our Prime Minister's soul because they think he's a weak member of the new government and he's going to protect them. Let's move on. We remained on the understanding of the management of RTV Slovenia that the programmes have improved despite the reduction of funds and that they contain more and more cultural content. Okay. On 28 January 2009, the National Assembly also received an open letter with 12 signatures, starting with the following very dramatic paragraph: "RTV Slovenia loses its battle with commercial houses because the values to which it is bound by its national character cannot compete profitablely with their market-oriented projects without such restrictions." And then, "RTV Slovenia needs to relieve uncultured commercialisation in the spirit of these expectations." This recognition of the fact that RTV is threatened by the decline of cultural and commercial content, and which dements Guze's fame to the achievements of the institution, was signed by a well-known, I don't know, leftist intellectuals, including Dr. Stane Grand, Dr. Janez Grill, Dr. Ivan Šuhec, Dr. Huber Požarnik and others. We have then learned from the media that Mr Guzei accuses us that the Committee on Education, Culture, Sport and Youth, at its meeting, has acted in a rude, undemocratic manner and, as an example, highlighted the conduct of the Members who carried out the obstruction. All well and well, the political rights of individuals and the politically clearly defined RTV Slovenia. However, Mr Guzei came to a meeting with a document which he then presented to the media as some sort of covert evidence of the integrity of the operation of the institution. He said the committee didn't want to take him into account. He presented this to the media as an audit report on business. I read from the STA, on April 9th, citing the Director-General: "The RTV Slovenia Audit Report proves that RTV did business positively in 2008 and the funds were used deliberately." And what is it really about? Now we come to Mr Oreshnik's claim. I read in point 3, I think that on the fifth page of the audit report, on the findings of the agreed procedures, this is the so-called conclusion of this document: "The procedures we have carried out are neither an audit nor an investigation in accordance with international auditing standards issued by the International Association of Accountants. Therefore, this report does not provide any assurance as to the conduct of the institution in relation to development projects, public procurement, copyright and enforcement rights, productions and co-productions and claims." So again we are in the invisible field of movements, assumptions, speculations and, of course, the need for a serious review of business, which only the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia can seriously provide. The report of the Supervisory Board is thus far as reliable documents received from the management of RTV, including those where the sale error of Eutelsat shares is recognised. How to buy a peaceful display of the data and facts that they deny to this practice and other facts. I was talking earlier about a well-planned system that resembles a fortress. Because different articles protect each other. I could also refer to the work and report of the Broadcasting Council, some media politician from the previous mandate, clearly on the state of the Slovenian media area. This report has been withdrawn from the agenda because of its indecisiveness and ideological accounting with journalists. I suggest that any of the Slovenian media publish it in its entirety, so that we understand well what kind of ideological design is involved in implementing the RTV law through the fort or triumvirate the institution. After all, the attitude of the previous authorities towards the media and freedom of thought and speech is also borne witness by Mr Janez Janša's action against the columnist Vlad Miheljak. You can read about this in today's media. We should ask most of the employees in the office, the press union, from which we received a five-page letter and you can read it yourself. It contains specific data, specific figures which I hope will also be taken into account by the Court of Auditors. We should ask most of the employees on RTV what happens to fees, to outside employees, to editors who have left or have been forced to leave RTV, or to those who have had no job opportunities because they were not politically appropriate or who had, I quote Mr Guze: "... wrong political pedigree". We should ask ourselves what happened when buying films and broadcasting on the market if prices doubled from 2007 to this year. Decisions on purchases have been taken by the competent authorities. We've got intel on that. The contracts were extremely unfavourable for the institution. We should ask ourselves what is wrong with meeting the obligation to be obedient to those who are affected. The Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia notes that the programmes for deaf and deaf on RTV Slovenia have almost become inaccessible. We should ask ourselves what is with the attempt of the so-called two-part agreement with commercial television. It is an agreement on the broadcasting of digital programmes on the first multiplex, so called MUX-A, where RTV Slovenia, despite the APEK warnings, would like to give the capacity of competitive commercial television in a way that, due to the date mismatch with the start of the operation of another commercial provider of the multiplex MUX-B, could jeopardise entry into the latter's market. The public agency has neglected the interest in market plurality at the price of a short-term competitive television deal. We would ask ourselves what is happening because of the failure to comply with contractual requirements and the commitments made by advertisers. We propose that when the Court of Auditors examines in particular the gross and net prices of advertising space, the issues of so-called super discounts and the role of intermediaries in the purchase of advertising terms between sports transfers. Members and Members, behind us is a four-year period of poor, extremely poor and politically managed public administration, which today boasts on the one hand the alleged business and programme success and, on the other hand, the desire to increase the subscription and the new budget money, which refers to the needs of the Law on Public Servants, which was created during the previous government, of those who did not allow the increase of the subscription at least to the elections. Such an important financial audit and such a detailed audit and debate on the technology platform, where there is no doubt that some important developments have occurred, the question is how much technology is then used meaningfully in the development of programmes. These debates, of course, cannot replace the substantive debate on how it is possible that audiovisual, creative, aesthetic and, finally, ethical standards of national television have fallen so disastrously over the past few years. Even my friend Zorn. I didn't deny the authorship of those joints. It doesn't come out of a magnetogram. You can see the magnetogram, and I didn't acknowledge this withdrawal or non-authority. After all this and after this political affair, which was created by correspondence from Mr Guze, Mr Možina and Mr Grande, where it is clear that this is a closed system protecting the fortress, I am sure that those conclusions are even more justified. It would be very fair of this tighter leadership to be aware of this catastrophic management of recent years and only offer a withdrawal. The Parliamentary Group will truly support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u30	Look, in the end, I will propose two concrete decisions that touch on time and on who has the right to take part in the meeting, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This can be decided in certain cases by the National Assembly. Before that, I would like to base this in more detail. Each member, as we call the transition left who spoke today, has either cruelly insulted people who are not here today, or perverted words [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u31	Mr Grimms, please respond to any valuable qualifications. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u32	That's what I'm doing, Mr. President. Let's just calm down, okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u33	And please don't do this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u34	Mr President, I understand that you want to lead a biased way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u35	in the context of its procedural performance. [[...]] Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u36	in the interest of the Minister, who is a member of your party. [[...]] Please wait for me to substantiate my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u37	That's the first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u38	This logic, first the discreditation, then the liquidation, if necessary the physical one that is present all the time today and comes out of all the words, is something that we all may have thought was something new, but when we watched the movie Soviet Story, it turns out to be a 70-year-old thing, even from the times when those under the red star and those under the platypus hugged, only that their political successors were still doing it today. However, some of you who have done this here today and have choked in anger because there is still some medium that is not entirely subordinate to you, which is autonomous and through which at least in direct transmissions people can see who is who, you have really gone too far in this. And you were talking about people who aren't here, you disqualified them harshly, at the same time with a representative of the Supervisory Board, who now has no choice but to answer at all. And that's why I'm suggesting two. First, to allocate an additional 60 minutes to the representatives of RTV Slovenia, at least Mr Oresnik will be able to respond to such insults, insinuations and word conversions as we have just witnessed to him. Secondly, after this decision has been adopted, the meeting shall be suspended for half an hour and shall also be open to the remaining members, who shall be permanently addressed and discredited by you personally, to the members of the RTV management, to attend the meetings and to give them a word. You know that additional time can be allocated to those who have not been invited to the meeting on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. It's a matter of political culture. I hope that you will all demonstrate your political culture, at least to this extent, so that by your vote now you will allow those people who are severely disqualified, who are being attacked, who are publicly insulted, to come and answer you in a reasoned manner, because this is the role of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u39	Of course, these two conclusions will not be put to the vote. These two decisions are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I say that the time has set for this meeting of the Colleges at its meeting and I will not put this proposal to the vote. Please. It's not procedural anymore. Please, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u40	Otherwise, you've already answered the question, even though it seemed to me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u41	Mr. Kek, there is no debate. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u42	The procedural proposal was that the first proposal by the representative of the transitional right seemed quite meaningful to me, but if it did not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Keck. Procedurally. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. In this case, of course, the only one who would have the right to extend time would be the committee which proposed this item on the agenda. The Committee has a very dispersive view of the point under consideration. I regret that the Committee does not have the opportunity, even if the rapporteur is the president of this Committee, to respond for more time to the many disqualifications that cannot be consolidated with what is in the magnetograms. Why someone can or can't talk is a special problem. But I would stress that this point is designed so that its proposer is a committee and cannot be here the other interlocutors. But how people are spoken of, and it would also suggest thinking when the proposer speaks of such a proposal. I don't know what my word was when I spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group, insulting anyone, but I was classified as one of those who brutally insulted and spread hate speech. I find that I didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I will no longer give you the opportunity for a procedural question or proposal because you already had one. The timing of this agenda item, which has 6 hours and 5 minutes, is not 5 minutes, but 6 hours and 5 minutes, is determined by the College of the President of the National Assembly. It has also set time frames and time allocations for all actors, all those who can and who have expressed their willingness and desire to take place within this debate. That is why I will no longer allow this discussion. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Vasja Klavora on behalf of the Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u46	Mr President, honourable President of the Supervisory Board, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! After all that has been said so far in this assembly in the presentation of views and in all the initiatives that have been given, it is actually difficult to give the position of the Group. I hope that in my brief speech and presentation of positions I will not offend anyone, but I will really try to touch what we think about this point. In the parliamentary group, we support the proposals for conclusions adopted by the home labour body in both acts, including the decision to reduce meetings to members of the RTV Supervisory Board, in particular in terms of the financial and economic crisis. In particular: Members of our parliamentary group will, as co-sponsors, support the amendment to the decision calling on the leadership of RTV Slovenia to pay particular attention to the production and presentation of content in the public interest, in view of the recent increase in RTV contributions, and to ensure adequate human resources, financial and technical resources. When I mention these three, human resources, financial and technical resources, I have a lot of concerns with the staff, which I was also familiar with with a letter from journalists talking about the part-time work on RTV; certainly one of the problems. With regard to financial matters, it would be wise not to speak and spread my discussion in order to reach the conclusion that the Court of Auditors would review the operation of the RTV Institute. To deal with all the dilemmas once, whether it was right or wrong. Is the money that was intended for the technical refinement of the plant or, if I am specific, for the implementation of the digitisation project, was it also spent on wages or not? We can't argue here with each other if we have that kind of information once, and then we can do it differently. The Court of Auditors is responsible for this, so let it give its opinion. Such an opinion can also be accepted from such a body. One of the main tasks of this public institution is to continue the launch of the digitisation project in addition to the provision of human resources and financial resources. I think it's a project that needs all our attention, because that's what we're talking about tomorrow, not only a digitisation project, but also an increase in the spatial facilities of the public service of Radiotelevision. I think that this is necessary and that this project has been well under way so far, it is going on, of course we also need to pay attention to the substantial financial resources that are largely provided by the development funds for this project. In view of the data from the progress report on this project, we conclude that the findings are unintentional, and we conclude that there is no justification for reports of unintentional use of funds for salaries rather than for a digitisation project. That's our opinion. We are confident that digitisation will be completed within the deadline and implemented within the means envisaged for this investment. We are also convinced that raising the RTV contribution will contribute to a materially better programming scheme, because for the cultural programme, I am not saying now that culture is needed, as mentioned earlier, but that it is necessary for a cultural programme that includes cultural programmes, playful and documentary programmes, educational, children's, youth programmes and other programmes, and has been intended for a number of years of nominally the same amount, while costs increased according to inflation, I think that the programming boards with all their powers, the good programming board, this extremely difficult task, nevertheless, will be able to carry out qualitatively. We want a higher RTV contribution to facilitate work so that we can hope for some substantive additions in the offer and more good educational and documentary shows. Much has been said today in this debate, and more will be said in the debate that will follow. In our parliamentary group, however, we want good public television from Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the Slovenian National Party on the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and the issue of cultural content on public RTV. The issue itself is quite complex and it is difficult to present, given the time limit, in detail. In addition, I have tried to bring together a common denominator a variety of positions of esteemed colleagues in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. So if I start with the question of sub-financing, so with the financial salary, which is certainly the most up-to-date issue, let me first list some facts. The RTV contribution remained unchanged until 2009. At the beginning of the law, this had a positive effect, business rationalisation was carried out and the supervisory board played an important role with intensive control over the use of funds. All of this is satisfactorily justified by the reports submitted and other documentation submitted. In 2008, the elasticity deteriorated to the end, due to the new legal programme obligations, such as the parliamentary programme, the Roma programme and so on, due to the necessary investments - i am not just a digitalisation - due to the change in the pay system. For 2008, 3.5 million euros were promised from the Government, but only promised, never contributed. Due to the decline in advertising revenues due to recession, it is 2.4 million euros less than planned, 22.3 million euros have been planned, but 19.9 million euros have been realised. However, RTV Slovenia was still operating on a minimum profit in 2008. RTV Slovenia arrived at a time of global crisis with no credit and regular repayment of debts. The report of the Supervisory Board shows its efforts to control the reasonable use of funds and thus contributes to the functioning of the public service and was not questioned about the implementation of the public service last year. In fact, RTV Slovenia carried out its tasks more than satisfactorily and supervised its business, legality, economy and financial operations in general. He who claims otherwise speaks the untruth and does not know the work of the Governing Council. In addition, in terms of the use of development funds, the Supervisory Board closely monitored the use of the resources acquired by RTV Slovenia by selling its share in Eutelsat in 2005. Just so much for your information, colleagues and colleagues. It's completely transparent. The value of sales in 2005 amounted to EUR 41.8 million. The inflow from sales in 2005 amounted to €36.9 million, €13.8 million to cover loans and current use, €23 million to RS bonds, purchase of shares in the new company EUTELSAT Communication 4.9 million. The current situation is as follows: 18.9 million euro bonds were sold last year for 4.1 million euro bonds, shares, and the market value of the circus is 42 million euro. The current consumption is €10.7 million, which is €6.6 million from the return on shares and interest on bonds, €4.1 million from the sale of bonds. It is necessary to re-emphasize the positive role of the Supervisory Board, which has adopted specific criteria for the approval and use of these funds. A three-year spending plan for the period 2007-2010 was adopted. Investments amount to €22 million and organisational human resources and programming projects amount to €15 million. So much for numbers. In the light of the above facts, the Slovenian National Party Group estimates that the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia in 2008 was good, that it achieved all the professional standards of supervision of financial transactions and the legality of operations of RTV Slovenia and that the general business of RTV Slovenia was satisfactory and legal. But let me touch another area, that is, financing editorially of production units, especially cultural content. The most funds on RTV Slovenia are dedicated to the editorial and production unit cultural and artistic program. That's 10.5 million euros. For UPE - The information programme is dedicated to €7.7 million, for UPE - The entertainment programme €4.5 million, for UPE - Sports programme €4.7 million, for TV SLO3 - Regional programme Koper and Maribor each per circus €1.4 million. So much so that we know what the numbers are now. We must be aware of the fact that the mission of the public service of RTV Slovenia is not only a cultural programme, but other types of programming are also important, such as an information programme, whose importance and role could convince us in 1991 in the independent war. We should also not forget ratings, because they are important for all content and should be planned for each broadcast. Then it could be determined whether the content attracted those audiences and viewers to whom it was intended. Creating a program that no one listens to and watches actually makes no sense. This is just a few views that we managed to get on the common denominator in the SNS. We have also worked on some other aspects that represent the opinions and views of the Slovenian National Party. In various media in recent years, there has been an increasing number of critical views on the national house of RTV. We cannot get rid of the feeling that it may be a deliberate destruction of reputation and a negative attitude toward everything that is being created in this house; perhaps it is water to someone’s mill. Throughout the history of RTV Slovenia, we have witnessed the expansion and expansion of the range of programmes financed from RTV contributions, the former subscription. Given the full range of programmes, we should ask ourselves how many programmes Slovenia actually needs. Is all these content really necessary to be financed from the contribution? Can we actually do that? The truth is, TV has no money and no capacity to offer quality SLO 2 software, which is still included in the media's coverage by 18 hours a day. The last amendment to the RTV Slovenia Act included Radio RSi, a radio for the foreign public. Why not work under the auspices of the Slovenian Tourist Association? It is a programme aimed at the foreign public, foreign workers working with us, tourists, as well as the local population, especially the younger population, who want to listen to more quality, fun and similar music. From the point of view of the Slovenian National Party, we should really consider what we really need in this area. We must exclude the programmes that we must provide in the light of the inter-State agreements with the Republic of Hungary and Italy. To what extent is it a matter of serious judgment at the highest level, not only the wishes of individuals or groups who create these contents, or on the other hand of the auditorium. The orchestras are also a great asset. Due to the lack of money, there's less and less resources for archiving. However, recordings of concerts cannot be compared with archival recordings, and they can only occasionally find their way to the audience. Of course, concerting is more enjoyable than dealing with boring archival recordings, especially for musicians. The music corps should take care of the recordings of Slovenian music creation. For example, works by composers such as Mozart, Mahler and so on can be bought on the market much cheaper and in much better performances by the most recognised performers in the world. Much more money should be spent on ordering Slovenian authors, including for the events of the rich treasury of our people's suspenses and authors of the past history. Concert activity is also carried out by the Slovenian Philharmonic and it is often felt that there is some kind of competition with the symphony orchestra. Is that really necessary? The media articles correctly assess that content and information broadcasts are not neutral, and their credibility falls on this side as well. In addition, we need to know that everyone can access information today and that the question is whether there is a need for so many providers of information programmes and broadcasts. We can afford sports events if we have money. But no one will create, instead of us, content that is extremely important for our identity, culture. These include documentary shows, educational shows, music. Last concern for the Slovenian language. Overpriced commercialisation can lead us to doubts about the eligibility of financial resources that our viewers and listeners contribute to. In the last period, we have witnessed very subtle attempts to obtain as many viewers as you have already mentioned. So again: what is our mission and to what extent? On the last request for an increase in the contribution and thus a financial injection from RTV, Mr Pahor promised that he would try to find a legal solution despite the legal restriction, but at the same time he also requested rationalisation from the Director-General. In doing so, it is necessary to know that violent or even virtual rationalisation by the dismissal and retirement of staff for the institution can also be very harmful. In some segments, this is already well known. Sometimes a bad internal organization is at fault, and in some departments they are actually walking on the extreme edge. On the other hand, they must patch up shortages of personnel with honorary workers, who often lack neither knowledge nor experience. But those who are truly good and need them deserve regular employment. Let's get this over with. What if the programmes that only the coastal and Styria region sees and listens to are also financed by the regional region? And only what we would need in national programmes, say two televisions and three radios, were financed from common funds from the contribution. The region of Gorenje and Dolenje has virtually nothing from the programme offer. [[...]] Nothing will be better in the future, as coverage in the digital network will also be regional. What if both Gorenjska and Dolenjska region demanded the establishment of their regional TV centres and radio regional programmes? Who would fund them? There are still many questions to be answered. But what was going on on the working body, I'm not going to comment, because we had this comment with our obstruction at the time, and the predecessors, of course, are polarized. [[...]] What do you say? It's sad that it came to this. We should deal more effectively with what I have now read to you, with problems related to RTV Slovenia. To conclude, I would like to express only the wish of my esteemed colleagues from the party. Why does RTV Slovenia not once play the film Lord Zafranović Jasenovac, which is a very instructive historical film, so that you will sometimes understand the views of the Slovenian National Party on Croats and issues more widely and also our views on association with Croats?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u49	Mr Györek, please, Croatia is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u50	Okay, but it's a program, a movie. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u51	The program's not on the agenda. There is no RTV Slovenia programme on the agenda, not radio, not television, not any other program.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for interrupting me. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Fish, just a moment. Procedurally, Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u54	Dear Mr. President! What you're doing is wrong. The time you took away from the Group of Members, your personal opinion that you could interfere with the word at any time, is a strange way of directing this meeting. I'd ask you to have the same vat for everyone. When your representatives of the political options, specifically Mr Juri, spoke, he made everything but what is the subject of this debate. You didn't let my fellow Member finish his thought. Why do you have this will to intervene whenever you feel that you need it? And that's just when the opposition speaks. I suggest if you're nervous to let someone else take the lead. You're not up to your job today. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would like to make it very clear that I always reach out to the word when I think that I have to cut down and that certain positions, statements, have gone through the framework that is relatively wide-ranging today in presenting my views. The question of Croatia does not belong here, so I think I have rightly warned, did not interrupt, warned the proposer or speaker, so I think I did the right thing. However, this assessment is the judgment of all of you, honourable fellow Members and Members, in such matters I myself realize that I will never wish to approve those who are affected by such a performance. I'm sorry. Mr Janez Ribič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Sub-financing of RTV Slovenia, report of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. Although the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group held a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, the youth at this point obstructed, because we believe that it is just so flat-rate that it is not possible to criminalise the activities of an institution of the Supervisory Council or anyone at all. We wanted to participate in unwarranted and unproven accusations of unintended and non-economic use of development funds, since the debate was already confined to a so-called rapid process without evidence, without defence. The public institution RTV is an important institution and plays an important role, which, at the same time, is somewhat limited due to the legal constraints and the method of financing and is therefore in a specific situation. Therefore, in our view, it is all the more necessary to monitor closely the founders and owners of the institution. The Supervisory Board has an important and responsible role to play in this regard, as it could be said that it is so decided on the fate and effectiveness of the institution. We agree with the conclusions of the Supervisory Board, which points out that a long-term vision of the development, role and financing of this institution, which is certainly necessary for technological modernisation, must be adopted. We can conclude from the report that the Supervisory Board is closely monitoring the operation and implementation of the planned programme schemes and the financing of the institution. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party Group we support this attitude of the RTV Supervisory Board. Although we can always discuss software content and personnel of RTV. The estimates would be positive and negative. I can like one show, someone else, someone likes sports content, others like cultural content, and so on. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that public RTV must offer something for everyone, but above all it must build on the quality of the program. While it is clear to every average viewer that certain decisions on the programme are indeed flawed and we hope that this will be much less in the future. Many times were mentioned in Passions, the so-called Slovenian telenovela, for which 700,000 euros were said to have been spent. The mere prudence of the Supervisory Council is due to the fact that this sequel has ceased to be recorded and that the remaining 1.1 million Euros have been earmarked for other purposes. It also mentions a million euros, which was allocated to the documentary on Angela Voda. If the distinguished Minister had settled matters at the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, RTV could also have spent this money for other purposes. Of course, public RTV has commercial competition, but we do not think it can be launched at the level of the TV. Journalists should certainly use the correct speech or speech culture on public RTV at a much higher level than on commercial television and radio stations. However, it is a heartwarming fact that we have seen from the report that the ratings of the first programme increased in 2008 compared to 2007. We can be sure that the ratings of the second programme will also improve if the transmissions of sports events are both current and quality. We expect multiple purchases of rights for important events, digital transmission, better visibility is recommended. Just in case of recent ski events or any recent sporting events, we preferred to switch to neighbouring countries or stations where the digital image was clearer. As far as personnel are concerned, we know that the satisfaction of employees in each institution or organisation is very important, in our opinion, even more so in the nature of this institution. Correct, up-to-date reporting and information to the public is crucial in democracy. Journalism is also crucial. It is also important for the success of the institution that employees are willing to participate in the institutions of the institution and in the meetings of the Supervisory Board. However, it seems interesting to us that the absence of regular employees due to the disease on RTV is higher than the Slovenian average. Is it inside the institution or is it just the nature of the work that must be stressful for workers? If we go back to RTV's finances or so-called sub-financing, we see that the RTV audit report proves that the institution operated positively in 2008 and that the funds were deliberately spent. RTV is expected to invest €15.5 million in RTV centres, in Koper, Lendava and Ljubljana. Digitalisation takes place at three levels: on the radio in technical production it was completed last year, there is an important digitisation of music and speech archives, the digitalisation of technology on television goes to the end, there remains only an important part of the digitalisation of transmitters and connections, which will be carried out according to plans, and will be completed within a legal deadline. We understand that in times of crisis it is difficult to talk about technology renewal. On the other hand, it is a ratings that will fall if RTV does not update. The Director-General of RTV Slovenia, as evidence of liquidity and transparency, also cites a reduction in costs at all levels, reaching a level of EUR 10 million per year. As far as we know, this director has also been able to achieve that RTV is operating positively today without loans. Before he arrived, RTV was doing business with 5 million credits. Today, RTV management is expected to present austerity measures that will lead to even more rationalisation. We support this in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We hope that, at the expense of these austerity measures, the programme content will not be distorted, but that costs, such as large individual fees and the like, will be reduced. And while we are already at the employee's fee, it is only because RTV Slovenia does not introduce a system whereby the employees would be so-called independent entrepreneurs, s.p.-j. Finally, let me just say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expect to improve the representation of programme content in the public interest on RTV. In addition, we believe that today's debate by some actually damages the reputation and ratings of public RTV and reduces the number of subscribers. It would be much more prudent if this debate took place in the context of the adoption of the new RTV law, and we would be very pleased if the honourable Minister would tell us what stage she is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposed material. Minister Maja Shirca Ravnikar took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I think it's important to say the following before the discussion continues. The Supervisory Board, which at the last meeting of the Committee on Culture at the time of its reasoned discussion and when faced with certain proposals for conclusions, even proposed a withdrawal, but listened very carefully to certain discussions in its mandate. And what pleases me is that he listened to the discussions that took place within the framework of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth of the National Assembly. If you follow the dynamics of your deliberations in the Supervisory Board, they have always followed those initiatives that have been taken on the Education Committee, either in this or in the previous mandate. And that's good. This suggests that the Committee on Education and Culture in this case was also eloquent with the thinking of NSK, the National Council for Culture, a constructive element not in monitoring, but in understanding the programming and development policies of RTV Slovenia. And if that understanding were not available, then the reasons for the withdrawal might be even more substantial today than it is. In this respect, there has been an interruption of a particular stratum, also the question of whether this interruption is a certain risk and has left certain consequences. In this respect, there has also been careful monitoring of the use or use of funds from Eutelsat’s shares or bonds. And I have something to say at this point. These shares, these bonds and these interest rates are part of the property of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly and the Government shall administer or exercise the rights of the founder in RTV Slovenia. But she can also exercise control because she once gave her consent in the past to purchase all the shares and thus in some way wrote her value. And it is right that the National Assembly and, in this case, the Government is sensitive to where these funds are invested. Are they planned properly? Is all consumption within the plan, which was from 2008 to 2013, and we know that it is divergent with implementation? Why are these funds enormously increased when used in 2008? Why do they leave a certain exit, a dangerous exit for the future? The Supervisory Board also notes and warns, and is also dissatisfied, that it must follow the instructions of the Programme Council and also the guidance itself in the use of these funds and may not agree with them. This needs to be stressed and also known that these assets, which seem to not only appear to be used correctly. They always vote where they go. Whether it goes to Passion, Pyramid, license, pierar or digitization, cameras or somewhere else, to the multimedia center. They always agree. But the point of view is, in some ways, they've been pushed aside. Once upon a time, it has been given, I call it silver, but it is intended for what the development agency is waiting for in terms of the transition to digitisation that this country must face by 2012. But I know what's going on. Now that the freezing of the contribution, the malnutrition of the institution and the spending of such and other institutions have led to the idea that digitisation will be possible once, I say, the crisis is settled from the state budget, because the law makes it possible, but now we survive and take the whole of the skin and finance telenovelas. In this sense, it seems to me that the one who closely monitored the work of this oversight council, their thinking, your thinking of being sober, is important. And perhaps even thinking that if you haven't sobered up enough and offered a resignation, you might have some concern about what will happen to the public institution in the future. And if there were not enough arguments, a few points were given today, but it is necessary by respect for the legislation and principles adopted by the Government to say something that the Supervisory Council also says in its minutes. It says something that is worrying and also in the context of the discussions that members of the National Council for Culture have had when they were concerned about the malnutrition of certain educational, cultural and other content for which the public institution is established, as opposed to commercial, indebted, compulsory and also established. And what is worrying is what they find in the last meetings of the Governing Council. They note that RTV Slovenia does not reach the quota of part of the independent producers of audiovisual production. This is what the director of RTV of the institution himself finds, and is also confirmed by supervisors. Why am I stressing this and why, say, here I may not even be able to, but I could enter into a dialogue with the last presentation of the Group of Members, the views of the Group of Members? This is because it is the implementation of the only directive in the field of culture and the media, and in particular the culture that Europe has placed on our shoulders and on our duty. This is said to be because of the demonopolisation of RTV Slovenia, independent producers must also be included in the programme by their own production and thus, this pluralisation of film production, audiovisual production, well, electronic production, which must disperse this, as I say, some single production within RTV, which is not rich enough in this area. And that's worrisome, that's what the Supervisory Board warns about. But even for him to begin to think about his own production, he does not deserve to be alone, but he is a well-deserved professional public and a well-deserved Committee on Culture, he deserves a National Council for Culture, and he is also part of the professional circles that have pointed out these shortcomings and the infringement and it is a violation. That's enough, for example, to consider your own responsibility. It is also interesting that in the budget reservations, by the way this year's budget, the financial plan or the financial plan for 2009, you have accepted the supervisors - how? Before you here in the National Assembly voted to raise the RTV contribution. You voted on a budget that was fictitious. If you had decided here to make an RTV contribution within the Budget Implementation Act, which was on the table months ago and which predicted this increase for almost 1 euro, if you had not voted then, what would the supervisors say? We thought they were going to vote in the National Assembly. In short, apparently a controversial vote, but it covered itself in the end, in practice, it somehow covered itself with these decisions. However, in this budget, television has €6 million of reserved funds for legal settlement. Whether a public institution has such a sum in the field of culture, we are not talking about the sum as size, but rather about the fact that there are a lot of disputes on RTV Slovenia, a lot of complaints, 400 of them being filed only on the basis of the translation of the pay system, which we know includes about 2,000 employees. And I'm not talking about the damage that money is doing, I'm saying that money is legitimately spent, but I'm talking about very serious short contacts, more than short contacts in the translation of wages, dissatisfaction. And I also speak from this point of view, because in the Ministry of Culture, in a way, every day they knock on their wishes so that the founder's representative will be confronted with problems of the house, the problems of the supervisors and the programme council. People are miserable. And if I finally sum up another thought that was made to analyse the functioning of the public service of RTV and read it in the media, it is an evaluation of software experts from the BBC who came to Ljubljana and apparently also assessed the functioning of the public institution at the request. What did they say? What does RTV Slovenia do? They said, quote: "that it does not plan in the long term to misinterpret on two information programmes, to demonstrate poor quality of performance, lack of editorial management, competition of the RTV public agency with commercial television, that there is and is fear of staff, fear of politics and government. External evaluators reportedly also resented the poor organisation of work and other processes in the house.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague, good day to you. Last month, the Council of Europe discussed the work and mission of national radio broadcasts or discussed the changed environment and the conditions for their operation. The high incidence of television commercialism and the remarkable growth in the development of new media have brought about a competition for the media market, and the media landscape has changed considerably. But this reopened the debate, the political debate, in national environments. That is why, for the last time, at the meeting of our committee, I was very surprised by the fact that your opposition colleagues obstructed the debate on our public television on our committee. Indeed, this kind of debate, the current debate takes place in the majority of the European Union and in particular in the Council of Europe. Next week, the Council of Europe in Strasbourg will adopt a special recommendation on the financing of public television, which is likely to be confirmed by ministers, all responsible for the media, in May in Reykjavik. And by what we want to do better than last time and talk about what we have in the Slovenian space. And, of course, when we ask ourselves whether public television is really state television or is it just a reflection of political will; Mr. Zorn said earlier that political will as such is not; but let me be allowed because Mr. Miro Petek is now a Member along with that it was said at the first reading of the RTV Act: "Let us stop blinding ourselves, public broadcasting is subject to political pressure everywhere, and commercial television is subject to economic pressure." Maybe that's the kind of thinking that used to be. I hope today's opinion, Comrade Friday, has changed something. This recommendation of the Council of Europe is based on the 1994 resolution adopted in Prague, which defines television as a public institution that must fulfil the universality of content and its quality or excellence. Universality of content means that public broadcasting offers a wide variety of content, including those not offered by commercial media, but also content that is universally available at all times, at all different times. Quality, however, is the main reason why public television is ultimately receiving a fee. With us, this is a subscription from every citizen who has an electrical connection. And the quality, which is a key argument and criterion, is supposed to include innovation, boldness, the courage of the program that RTV offers us. This should, of course, be different from what they offer on commercial televisions. As the Slovenian users, for whom I hope they do not watch or watch today, judge for themselves, who, after all, with their contribution, the euro, cover the subscription and pay it every month. The study on the reputation and credibility of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which was also commissioned by the management and conducted this year in January, speaks of the fact that, of course, this kind of practice on television viewing and usability should be a regular practice of the management work and thus show great transparency in the availability of public funds. The study carried out among the viewers shows that these are mostly interested in documentary, civic, and educational programs. Of course, there's fun, movies, sports. The research also says that the program is satisfactory. Somewhere in the middle between 1 and 6, about 3.5 gets a percentage of ratings positive. However, the data that I find very interesting and I think this has also led today's television management to complete a business plan for the use of new increased subscription funds, and to abolish the third parliamentary programme, for which there is no interest, since it is hardly seen by anyone, the ratings are not 1%. The law on RTV, which you recently adopted in the opposition by respected colleagues, was then distributed by the Slovenian public. Your goal was, and it was in complete contradiction with the mission and declaration of certainty, the independence of public television adopted by the ministers of September 2006. This law has also resulted in the amendment of the statutes on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and, of course, in staff replacements. Journalists themselves have spoken about the implementation of the pressure on journalists, and he has already spoken about it by his colleague Germić, and not to repeat it, nor would he have specifically warned and quoted it. And when we talk and discuss today the report of the Supervisory Council and the management material on the sub-funding of television programmes that are supposed to work towards the rationality of the use of public funds or also to overwind the implementation of the work process, it is difficult to find such content in the documents alone. In fact, things remain with the management of television as far as finance and rewards are concerned. The salary of the Director-General is among the top ten paid directors of public institutions, €6,389. If I compare the salary of a minister with 5,874 euros, you can judge for yourself. Finally, with the budget available to the Ministry of Culture, EUR 215 million and the budget of EUR 130 million, television is once again the responsibility of the one who must not last worry about all these public funds. I have already mentioned on the Committee that meetings or meetings of the Supervisory Board for last year have brought on average around €4,800 for 44 hours at work. Are these really rational measures, I don't know, I find it hard to convince. It's up to those who pay for it, the viewers. Wage funds also represent always different percentages in the RTV budget. Mr Director-General once said that this was 47% of the total assets; others said that this was 60% of the share. This is said to be information in the lead of radio television sometimes matures and the media emerges with regard to the general climate. We have also heard today about the diversity of information in the written documents and reports of the Supervisory Council that we would not be repeating whether or not we, as we have sold, have not sold the shares of Eutelsat. In reviewing literature and reports, I was also greatly disturbed by the fact that in 2003, for example, 748 regular employees and 384 permanent associates were employed, but they together created 14,310 hours of the programme. Last year, TV, for 2005, created 12,347 hours of program with employees. See again how these employment-fund ratios and production are comparable or rational. One of the facts why the production of the program was also falling was that I could explain that dissatisfaction with the employees themselves could be criteria. 816 complaints were received by the Commission for complaints still pending today. Half of these, we have previously heard the Minister, said that the result was incorrect or correct, we do not yet have all the results, the translation into the new pay system. In doing so, it does not refer to any positive energy or work elan that would make the reality of rational investment of public funds on TV better. I am also thinking about trying to rationalise the work and the eligibility of the appropriations. If I add to this individual leadership moves that trust and pay the external company to arrange internal communication, I also wonder to what extent leadership has been trained and what were the criteria and criteria that have convinced the decision-makers to choose as they are. We are also convinced of the irrationality of the part of the management when we talk about the tenants of the advertising space and the fulfilment of their contractual obligations. These are probably the stories that the auditors will get into their hands, and I think we'll get a new story, possibly politically. From what I've seen, we've heard today that television is supposed to increase. My data shows otherwise, the ratings are falling, depending on which angle you're looking at, how many generations you're judging or what criteria you're setting. I think that this is well-known by the management of radio television, since these data are mostly more secret than public data. But the fall of ratings is not surprising. In fact, if only viewers watch and distinguish between the information programme reports at the 19th or the contact broadcast or, last but not least, the same schemes that repeat themselves on both commercial and national television. Do you remember, at least some of us, how a hot debate took place last year when parents had a petition online to fight for evening cartoons in a traditional term? The petition had to be signed by 2154 people and condemned the commercialisation of public television, which is a demand for the eligibility of public spending. True, Passion seems to attract many more viewers at once, but where is the mission and speciality of diversity for all generations? Today, I am glad that children can also watch a lot of cartoons on commercial television. However, the criterion of ratings is only one of the permanent parallels of work and does not decide and should be a criterion for the eligibility of use of public funds. Therefore, the Council of Europe revived the debate on the standards of the public media service and the 2008 resolution, which also discusses indicators for the media in democratic society and in this year's recommendations, which I mentioned at the outset. I should therefore like to mention that there is currently a debate in the European space on the re-recognition of missions, the role and responsibility of national television public services. In doing so, the parallel starting point of the debate is to ensure an independent editorial policy in which policy does not enter. Therefore, the leadership of our television could only recognize that the most important criterion of their work is credibility and objectivity, not sensationalism and provocativeness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday has the floor. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Because I was mentioned. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I was mentioned. The chairman gave me his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u63	I'm sorry. I made a mistake. You haven't discussed it. You can't have a replica yet. So do I. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Can I please tell you? [[...]] According to the Rules of Procedure, I can't give you a replica because you haven't discussed it yet. In the implementation of Mrs Richter, I can get the floor, in the implementation of Mrs Richter, two were mentioned, Mr Zorn and Mr Petek. None of them have been in the debate yet, so please follow the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to give you my word, but I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, everyone else is present! In my debate, I will focus mainly on the sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public television. I wouldn't want to be disqualified, like in any economic debate, by any of the interlocutors, because I'm not coming out of the economy or anything like that. I hope, of course, that other debaters will also talk about what they are learning. I'm imagining that at least on cultural programs on radio television something. What I think we owe to today's point of view is the opinion of the National Council for Culture, which has identified, as well as part of the members of the RTV Programme Committee, that cultural programmes, cultural content, content in the public interest are not at a satisfactory level. I hope that the debate will remain in this respect because I think these debates on the process of how this agenda item has come to be quite meaningless. It seems inappropriate to me that the stocks we agree with, and even though they are based on assumptions, they seem solid to us, and those that have the opposite side, and those that we leave in neglect. I hope no one in this room thinks, in fact, that the cultural policy of our public broadcasts is governed by the political commissioners, one of whom speaks Slovenian with Russian and the other with the Argentine accent. It is, of course, good to look into some general state of the media landscape in our country to evaluate the cultural programmes of public television. And we can see that there are freemen with us who, after the elections, miraculously disappear, that we have two daily newspapers in the majority of the privileged borrower's possession of the largest bank in the majority state ownership, that we have the Broadcasting Council, which considers journalists to be greedy, in short, helpful to the regime, and that we have the same journalists who are supposed to be Thirsty, who are writing petitions against the supposed regime. Thus, it is likely that the assessments of the political conduct of radio television in such a media landscape are, in fact, mild and in essence, in relation to the other media dependencies that I may have mentioned indirectly, not even the greatest. The reason why public broadcasting is subject to political influence is the media law adopted in the previous term. And it is no wonder that this has also increased the politicisation of programmes. As far as culture itself is concerned, which may at first sight not even be very politicised, I think it is difficult to understand how cultural programmes are financed, but if the employees themselves on TV think that money is enough because they see it in practice. But there are some prestigious ideological projects on public television that money will be found for. If you can, for example, for the film mentioned here, about Angela Water’s leadership TV devotes more money than for children’s, youthful, educational and other programs together at the annual level, something can’t be right here. Especially can it not be good if the critic comes forward and this film does not go straight to the stars, but the director of TV says that the audience he was going to see received positive reviews. Wasn't this film meant for all of Slovenia's audience? How could it have been directed only to the part of the Slovenian audience? Does this public television not work in the public interest of everyone? Does it work only in the interest of some, if some are satisfied, the part that this film was intended for them? I hope that public radiotelevision is intended for all its viewers, not just some. What are these "some" that the director of television says this film was meant for them? Probably those who are not disturbed by the historical fact that Angel Vode was not arrested by German-speaking Gestapomen, but by their Slovenian colleagues. Is that the part? Because I cannot assume any burden of ideological accounting with the current television leadership, unless, of course, this burden is distributed equally to everyone involved here. I am, for example, sorry because I am discussing a man who is not, and he is the only one who gets an opportunity in an alleged independent media between all-party ads, and this same medium doesn't bother to ask me about minimum journalistic standards and to check the facts and non-truths that are written about me. In short, I'll talk about my colleague, Mr. Mozini. I first met him 15 years ago, he was then a student minister at the University of Ljubljana Student Organisation, and I came to ask him for money for some cultural festival. That's right. The cultural festival I asked for had rock 'n' roll concerts, movies, theatre and puppet shows, dance shows, and I got some small money. However, Mr Možina frankly admitted to me that he could no longer give me money because he had to spend it on festivals of singing choirs and folklore groups. All of this is culture, all of this is legitimate, and the fact remains that we will always have different views on how much and what things are meant to be. And here I see this similarity with, I don't know, prestigious projects that I have already mentioned or the need for Slovenian viewers to watch Latvian documentary on Stalin, and on the other hand we don't have as much money as we should have for our own production. This radio television programme even had a Slovenian puppet program for days. Even the editorial work was so, and there were large puppet shows, which later, unfortunately, ceased, and elsewhere this mission was poor. Now the obvious thing has come so far that most of the cultural shit, the National Council for Culture, agrees that it has gone too far and that, of course, it would be appropriate to reconsider where these funds were intended and whether they were being rightly directed. The conclusions proposed here are completely in place. Public Radiotelevision has a completely different purpose than commercial ones, and the fact that the funds for the entertainment programme have grown inappropriately more than any other means shows us that this mission is not properly carried out by this Television. I'd stop and limit myself at this point. I know that many other arguments will be heard here today, even more of a financial nature, which is, of course, normal according to the point. I hope that the management of the house will take a decision, which I hope will be taken seriously and that it will mislead its role in this media space, not only try to compete with commercial televisions, but focus on what it says in its orientations and ultimately on the very name of the institution, that it is public not state television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please, Mr. President, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I propose or announce that the Group of Members will not cooperate in the debate on the conclusions and conclusions on this item in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give you an explanation. In fact, when we have listened to the preliminary opinions of the parliamentary groups, we cannot get rid of the feeling that the attempt to criminalise and disqualify the leadership and the RTV Supervisory Council by the coalition, in particular by the Zares party, also wants to influence their decisions and subsequent replacements. It appears that this will become a pattern in interfering with the institutions of state importance. This debate also tries to influence journalists and other RTV members of the house. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not rule out that some of this was not in the previous mandate, but we expect the Government, if it thinks that changes are necessary, to come up with a proposal for amendments or a new law, not to cause unrest between RTV leaders and co-workers and to cause mixed feelings between audiences and viewers of radio and television programmes. As I said in the introduction, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I announce that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will no longer participate in this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm taking your decision, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, is possible. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, the minister spoke about how much money is still available in this public office after the various drawers, that EUR 700 000 is being spent, if I understand correctly, on the reconstruction of the avala. Yes, millions of euros are earmarked for so-called court settlements and, of course, lawsuits. While we are lifting the subscription, the subscription, which is a symbolic raise, is also a problem for many. The feers who are employed, which is able to understand from the letter we received, are in large numbers, in my deep belief, also a reflection of the image that there are many internal reserves in this public institution. I'm not going to say that we have to influence leadership or programming policy from this place. This must not be the case, and I can also join the view that some want to get involved from government benches. However, if the public agency does not work as it should, it can be an indication that if we watch some commercial television, that it works with much less available personnel, it is much more economical, it is more pervasive and that the ratings are much greater there than we do. To record one show, we need props, lights, cameramen, directors, assistants, or we're working on an outside arrangement. In short, one whole bunch of people, and we come on commercial television to shoot a show, and we see that there's one, two and a announcer, a host. In short, I wouldn't mind what I'm saying now if I hadn't waited five years for RTV Slovenia to be the same for citizens. It's not. TV Koper still broadcasts in Italian and only in Italian. We don't have Slovenian subtitles when it's an Italian program. Television, national television is also paid by those who are in the Styrian capital who have nothing to do with the Italian programme and have to listen to Italian on national television. To be otherwise regulated, this programme is proof of a minority programme for Hungary, Bridges - Hidak, which is a modelly regulated broadcast, is subtitled. It is interesting, however, that when we have a Slovenian program in Cyprus, it is subtitled to Italian, 70% is this program and more. Dear Minister, there's also a reserve of money. The Croats don't spend any kuna for the purposes of the Italian minority in Croatia, the show, so Mr Simonita, your predecessor, has assured me, but they are recording with our money for the needs of the Croatian Italian minority, with our teams. And, of course, they're playing at our expense. I would like to have been of the same opinion when we were sitting in opposition benches to provide this money and, of course, not to reduce the rights of the Italian minority through the programme, but to provide this money and to subtitle Italian broadcasts with Slovenian subtitles and vice versa, when the Slovenian programme is the Slovenian programme, to subtitle it with Italian subtitles. It's imperative that you do it and don't tell me there's no money, but if we can only pick up millions by turning around a little bit. As for the work of the supervisory authority and the management; I, if I walk after what I have just said, can say that criticism can also fly to the management of this public institution because talking about such mistakes and praising leadership would be incompatible. And if there is a need for change, let this change be done as it is normal in the democratic world, not under duress and not because we have a debate here today. The fact that you are calling on the President of the Supervisory Authority to step down, Madam Secretary-General, is not nice, and this reaction of yours is also evident in the obstruction of one of the parliamentary groups. Don't make any mistakes your predecessors have already made. As a member of the National Assembly in this term, I will closely accompany you - until now I have been silent and I am waiting for you to do so - as I have requested in the previous term, it is said that you will ensure equality before the law for all. But I'll keep an eye on where the money will go from the other items. We haven't talked about anything yet; we should talk about some areas when we talk about funding from the state budget when we talk about RTV, more sentimental, more inclined, and that there is no problem, say, for millions of dollars. And just like that, the scrotum unties. When we talk about the balance, of course, I will also remind you of what the Court of Auditors is talking about today, Mr Soltes, where millions of people who do not have a background for the digitisation of the media have disappeared. This is a note by the Court of Auditors and it is likely that there will also be a question at what other level where the grounds are that this money is wasted. Last but not least, I would like to make a clear appeal today to the management to look for internal reserves, because as many people as are employed in this institution, I think it is already tasteless and has nothing to do with reality. Let them look for these internal reserves because the cost of the work is the greatest cost. When they do, they will have too much money and will not have to send home a new ticket to encourage RTV subscription.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Excuse me. Excuse me, Madam Secretary. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u70	There may not yet be a recognised model of the functioning of the public institution in Slovenia, which is not in fact significantly different from elsewhere in Europe. The honourable Member should be reminded that you are paying for the RTV contribution. What is the RTV contribution, for which, by the way, I am taking the lead in the future when it is expected to be complemented and partially amended by the RTV Slovenia Act at the end of this year. RTV contribution means, this RTV contribution to which viewers, audiences, viewers and listeners, of course, are always so nervous and we meet at the ministry with numerous complaints because they say that they do not like this connection to the electric current. However, the RTV contribution means that when the state directly, it is called the Government, not by its goodwill, the level of funding and so on, by means of financial assistance directly affects the public institution. This is what a democratic European society has generally agreed, but not a legal one, and recommendations to countries, in the light of the fact that they should stay away from public services as long as possible, decide on such systems as to allow this distance. And this also allows RTV to contribute. This means that the money goes directly to the public office, that the public institution, with its authorities, management, programme and supervisory board in Slovenia, decide what they will do in the light of what the law imposes on them. The state can only enter in some moments and this, Mr Grimes will quote the point now, and it is right. This is said when it is necessary to support development programmes and digital technological development options, when it is necessary to help specific groups, minority groups and Slovenians around the world and in some, as it were, fewer national cases. Only then can the state enter with its help. And here is this security guard, which is properly set up, and I continue to advocate that the state does not interfere with the public service, czech, "yeah, we will not give you this because you did not report this increase or this money properly today." We have received, and you have also received, this call, which was worthy of respect, of the works of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council - we have heard of it many times today, Mrs. Potrata also quoted it, and was signed by Mr. Granda, Štuhec and so on - in which they pointed out the poor condition of programming content in the cultural, educational and scientific field, and called for the cessation of RTV contribution and for the direct state to finance RTV. There are reservations here, because then we would really have all the tools in our hands. But here we need to know that there are very few options when it comes to money coming out of the budget. It is clear, however, that the Government is deciding whether an RTV contribution can be made in certain percentages, 10 plus, minus, right, Mr Grims, by September of that year, and that is decided. And here too, I think that the appropriate group is preparing changes - also Mr Guzei has proposed this change, the amendment has provided us with information through the media - that perhaps in the future they will regulate the contribution in some way of tying to the basket, inflation or otherwise, in order to remove these mechanisms. Well, and since there is such a narrow space of opportunity within this law that it can also be financed from the state budget, the government or ministry with Mr Virant led by last year has come into serious difficulty in how the public agency, Television - when it was signed the regulation on wage system changes - could also help to compensate for the increase in funds due to the consequences of the change in the salary system. That's why she was literally doing some, I'm sorry, exercise that from the finance line of the Ministry of Public Administration went money on TV to go to the pay system, then they saw that this was wrong, including with the warnings of others, and they turned it into digitisation, which it does. Well, and as we know then it was trying to transfer this money through other curves, through funding programs for Slovenians around the world and so on. But, I'm sorry, there is another option, and this is an opportunity for a Roma program, the government can directly help through the RTV contribution. I apologize, but sometimes it may be necessary to say that the contribution, the manner of this paradox that we are all paying, is introduced into this system and is not new and has been since we have RTV Slovenia, so that there can be a public institution as independent as possible if.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u72	Your Honor! The combination of these two points is probably not the most fortunate today, because on the one hand it gives the impression that we are fully addressing all the problems that are in this public institution and on the other hand it points out the essence when it comes only to the report of the Supervisory Board, when we are supposed to talk primarily about financial work, but it is an opportunity to speak critically about the things that are connected with this public institution. The main question is whether this public institution carries out a mission entrusted with the law and whether it comes through programmes, the contents to the public of what is also the so-called public interest of those who should be involved in this institution. It is undeniable that the institution is limited due to certain specific tasks it has and therefore we are also paying for all RTV contributions. If that were not the case, this institution would be on the market like other commercial institutions in this area. If we ask ourselves whether the public office is carrying out its mission, we might find out, and this is the general view that it is not or bad. When we talk about what is what its core mission is, then, yes, of course, information, education, culture, documentary part of the programme should be carried out as it should be. The fact is that in recent times it has been somewhat modern to talk about this malnutrition, the sub-funding of cultural content on public RTV. There is nothing abnormal about those who are particularly sensitive to these issues, but it is cynical that those who have supported this invention of the law that we now have and who are talking about how everything should actually be and how this contribution should be increased and how the failure to increase this institution leads to poverty, etc. It must be said that the law now in force by the management of the institution is that the development funds from sales, which have already been mentioned, are intended for the development of programme content. The fact is that these funds are used to pay for the pyramid licenses, and a film has been recorded, which has already been discussed today. Because of this, of course, the standard was low because the system was of lower programming quality of content, it was essential that they resorted to certain things and enriched them with broadcasts of type To Health and cheap entertainment cartridges. The ratings were falling, and the withdrawal from advertising was lower. This has created a kind of spiral ratio, in which everything is connected – the lack of money is certainly leading to weakening programming content, causing poorer ratings, lower inflows of funds from market activities and turning around in a vicious circle. However, RTV’s leadership would like to resort to a public opinion that says, broadcasting To Health and some others supports 70% of the audience, but if you asked the public whether you wanted to stop the opera or ballet or not to finance it in this part, what question would you get, 10%, 15% would be for these contents to be maintained, and the rest would be for Health. I hope it's not too often: "Cheers up." In short, I myself find it logical to conclude that the programme’s leadership on TV is completely out of date with the management of this management. Public television is mainly understood as an ideological accounting tool, which we see through content virtually every day, and this definitely leads this public television into the abyss. Follow the trends and you'll see. It is therefore necessary to prevent this damage as soon as possible, and I believe that by means of legal and other measures in the National Assembly, we will be able to do so more unanimously than we have done in the case of that law which has been unacceptable and is now in force, and in the public interest, to ensure the smooth work of RTV on the basis of the written programming platforms and the contribution provided for this institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact that RTV is underfed is a fact, but it is also a fact that the applicable RTV Act does not in itself prohibit the increase of the subscription. And this is a political problem of its own nature. But some facts. First of all, this audit house, because I myself have proposed that the audit report be distributed in the National Assembly. First, this audit house was chosen under the Public Procurement Act. The audit was carried out in accordance with international standards and in accordance with applicable legislation. What some refer to is the audit work commissioned by the RTV management on certain internal procedures, and this work is done by different methods. This is not part of the audit, but it appears to be part of the audit, but it is not true. So much so that the passion for these facts calms down a little. The possibilities have been mentioned, and certain appropriations from the budget are always targeted at the public institution. This was the talk of €3.3 million to be provided by the budget for the co-financing of national programmes. It's like there's something unheard of, but it's not true. By law, it is absolutely possible to do so. What was done in the previous mandate was that 414 000 euros have been earmarked for these purposes, which are not included in this budget, which has now been adopted, in the revision of the budget. Not only is there not three million and 300,000 euros, but there are also four hundred thousand. So, from all of this story, what is really being fed at this point, are national programs, objectively. So the money that was already provided, and which is part of the RTV budget, is no longer that money. That means what? It means that, given the existence of something, since 1994, it has required a public institution to co-finance national programmes of 50%, this is not the case. And even if these 3 million and 300,000 euros were earmarked for this, they were not, because this government has made this impossible, they would not have reached 50%. Now, what I can find out is that the national programmes do not have a perspective at this time, because the fallout of these 414 thousand euros can mean, given the actual situation in Cyprus and in Lendava, only a reduction in the scope of the programmes, nothing else. I hope that the law, the new one, which I am working for, and for which I hope that we too will be called together when it works, we hope that this will determine the share of co-financing by state resources, and that these national programmes will be able to plan their own development also on the basis of what I would call full savings, which is already happening. If, for example, 5% are reduced in general in the External Cooperation Office, as far as national programmes are concerned 5% is concerned, this will be abolished. Because they don't have any more reserves. In short, I sincerely hope that the drafting of the law will take into account the facts and also allow these programmes to identify their own perspective, and that people working for these programmes and not only Hungarians or Italians will be able to perform this public function with dignity, for which they are absolutely qualified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u76	Mr. Battelli, I assume that your allegations come from absolute ignorance. I signed my own contribution, which comes from the state budget for the programmes. At the same time, because RTV does not have a choice of words, I know that you have the money of the national community in the budget of RTV Slovenia itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, nice greetings from my colleague, colleagues. I think that there was no such treatment of the RTV issue at the plenary session during Slovenia's independent period and that today's debate is a precedent. We discussed the RTV Act, not this kind of issue or RTV in the way we are discussing today. Apparently RTV is an object of desire of coalition parties who want to win it again and again. Not to mention this precedent, which has already been said that the Government, the executive, is writing proposals to the Committee on Culture, which is also a novelty in the National Assembly. Today, we have heard from the President of the Supervisory Board that the operation of RTV was positive in 2008 and that it is also positive in the first three months. What is the government's business, Mr. Borut Pahor, at this time? Unemployment has increased, poverty has increased, budget deficits have increased. On April 6, Milan Cvikl, a colleague who had been sitting there for the previous term, freely said that the government's realization in the first quarter was weak, barely 58.5%. And in the absence of knowledge and will to deal with this financial crisis, RTV came in handy and today we have given him 6 hours and 5 minutes of debate. Instead of fighting, instead of proposing laws to deal with the economic crisis, we will be hearing today about Pyramid, Hribar, Grandi, Možina and so on. And my assessment is that this debate is an eclectic intervention in the independence of public RTV. The second is, of course, the law on RTV, which I have already mentioned, and I hope that it will come as soon as possible on our bench. If this existing law is weak, I hope that the new law will provide new frameworks for the autonomous, independent operation of the RTV house and I will gladly support it if it brings any better solutions than those in force today. Already among these debaters, today's debate has proved to be mainly the preparation of the ground to replace RTV leadership. I think they were the first fighters from Primorska to demand a replacement of the RTV leadership. A nice word was already used here today: Desant. It's a squadron to lead RTV. Human resources are opening up, and it was cynically said here that leadership should just give up, let leadership just jump into these foies. There are certainly more reasons for such a brutal intervention in RTV. The coalition is apparently getting on the nerves of some broadcasts that have recently been broadcast on public RTV. I should mention to the Children of Petrič, already mentioned documentary on Angela, where it is clearly not a problem in the means used for this film surplus, the documentary surplus, but the content or other documentary of foreign productions such as that documentary series or that documentary about Stalin and Stalinism. Of course, RTV was also the first Slovenian media house to report liquidations in the Hudi Cave. Of course, part of this left-wing elite is quite offended. The part of the left-wing elite, which has been fueled by the public RTV in the past years and has lost these privileges for various productions and co-productions since the second leadership was put in place. Let's just remember the Continuum of Preshern. I'm not going to appreciate the quality of this sequel, but I would remind you that the estimate for this series at the time was a million marks, and the final price was three million marks. And, of course, the relevant question is where that difference went. However, I agree with those who claim that in recent years the quality of the press work in the public house has decreased. But this is not only a problem of public RTV, but of Slovenian journalism in general. And I will immediately sign all the initiatives so that on radio and Slovenian national television there should be a substantial number of cultural shows, because many Slovenes are the only medium through which they are accompanied by excellent Slovenian cultural production. My colleague Richter mentioned me earlier. I think I should still have the right to a replica at the time, because she mentioned my implementation in the previous term. Anyway, my colleague Richter said, "Let's stop blinding ourselves, public radio and television are all over the world under political pressure and commercial TV is under economic pressure." That's exactly what's going on here today. This public TV is subject to political pressure, and I have not changed that opinion, this is reality, this is fact. Of course, another is, what are the goals, what does it say about this profession, what desires are. And I would really suggest to Mrs Richter that she read a piece of communication or that she read some text in the field of communication by the person who is preparing these files for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Friday, please read once again the 70th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks exactly what a replica is and that the replica is considered to be debaters at this meeting, not at yesterday's meeting, not at a meeting two months ago or even in the previous term. Please! And according to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as interpreted by those who wrote it, I made the same decision. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! National RTV Slovenia is always a handy medium for a debate between the opposition and the coalition. It is significant that, as a rule of this kind, they appear at the beginning of each term of office in the National Assembly. This was also the case with the RTV Slovenia Act at the beginning of the mandate of the former government led by Janez Janša. The debate on this law brought us even to the universal referendum, which was handed over by a splintered majority by the then authorities, and with it covered the entire mandate. It is therefore of paramount importance that we seek, in this mandate, the withdrawal of policies and monopolies from the entire media space, not only from RTV Slovenia. The media cannot and must not be the political will of the ruling elite or help the interests of capital. The amendment of media legislation must be the subject of a broad public debate in the public interest and within civil society. Thus, in the coalition agreement, we committed ourselves to upholding its excellence, openness and commitment to the public in amending the RTV Act Slovenia. The issue of cultural content is certainly a first-class topic on public Radio Television Slovenia, and we must give it all the attention we need. We also placed a special place on RTV Slovenia in the resolution on the national programme for culture, which we unanimously adopted in the previous mandate, to ensure the presence of cultural content in the media. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, my colleague, Mag, has already spoken about this. Majda Potter. The National Council for Culture and the National Committee for Culture in the National Assembly also sent an initiative to address the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV. Thus, last year the National Council for Culture found that cultural content in public television programming schemes in some segments of the programme was underrepresented and cultural broadcasts moved from Prime to later less favourable nighttime terms. In particular, the absence of cultural content in information shows has been observed in the National Council for Culture. In this way, the National Council has committed itself to increasing the budget share of funding and to increasing the subscription in order to provide material bases for richer cultural content on public television. As a result, in the new Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, we increased the RTV contribution by 1 euro, which is about 9%, 10%. At the same time, we have ordered RTV to present measures to improve the conditions and representation of programme content in the public interest. In the National Assembly we listened to the initiative of the National Council for Culture and the issue of cultural content on Radiotelevision Slovenia, together with the report on the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia for 2008, became a first-class political theme. So first-class that the SDS even decided to obstruct itself and because of the conclusions which were later even withdrawn from the procedure, its Members did not attend the meetings of the Committee on Culture at all. The position of the SDS Group was also focused on the reasons for their obstruction. By the way, for me personally, this was completely unnecessary, but we did not hear much about the cultural content on RTV or the report of the Supervisory Council. In fact, we have raised a number of issues in this debate, from the use of development funds, the introduction of a new pay system, price relations in the procurement of feature films, the obligation of television to the hearing, to the issue of commercial policy in the field of advertising and a type of other areas. I therefore, of course, support the proposed conclusions and conclusions that the multi-annual non-alignment of the RTV contribution with inflation has led to the sub-financing of the public service, which is consequently reflected in the implementation of the basic mission of public broadcasting. I therefore expect RTV Slovenia to pay particular attention to the production and presentation of content of public interest and to provide appropriate human resources, financial and technical resources for this. I also support the decision of the Home Committee on Culture, which was adopted when we presented the measures of RTV Slovenia to improve the conditions and representation of programme content which are in the public interest to review the operation of the institution between 2005 and 2008, as the last such audit was carried out five years ago, namely 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u81	Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister. Personally, I must say that I would have no problem today if we had the opportunity to discuss and vote on the conclusions presented at the outset as incriminating and dissuasive conclusions. I must say that I have great problems with whether we could really judge that the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia is indeed fulfilling its mission and acting as we expect it to. We are the ones here in the National Assembly who, on behalf of all those who pay for the RTV contribution - we have laid down a law on this here - must determine whether the authorities we trusted to monitor this are actually doing their job as it should be. Can we, indeed, be sure that all these funds are spent rationally, legally, economically? Is the public interest and the public mission also fulfilled through these aspects, and in particular is it met, as we speak today, that the cultural mission of this television is also being fulfilled? Here they are and there are problems, because I personally believe that the Supervisory Council, which is currently in operation, is in its report and also in later discussions, it has been shown that there is a whole range of problems, a whole range of problems that arise if not otherwise, I can at least doubt the fulfilment of their mission as a Member. But in a way, we have to say today that we're talking about something else and something else. We're talking about what the effects and results of the so-called Grims Act are like on the so-called Grims TV. What are the effects both through the authorities that monitor and manage RTV and the content that can be monitored by all those who watch television and listen to radio. And, of course, it is necessary to ask whether promises are being fulfilled. Is this television really more quality now and more culture on it or in its programs? We have concerns. We are even reminded of this by the highest, this is the consultative body, the National Council for Culture and even the writer, respected and appreciated, Drago Jančar, who gives special instructions on what should happen to this in the context of the radio and radio programme. The second question is whether it works more rationally. At that time it was promised that this would happen. Today we are listening to debates and we have a lot to say about the investments that we are having a hard time justifying, the purchase of new cars, the remodeling of avels for hundreds of thousands of euros, the purchase of business premises. These moves may have been rational, perhaps not, but there are still bitter tastes that may not have been done this way. We wonder if workers, employees, journalists on RTV are more satisfied now. That was all promised. And here we have a letter from the press union, which is very critical to the leadership that matters that happen there. Apparently, there's a whole series of things that don't go according to the so-called Grims' promises about television. I'm not going to talk about the program because we know that everyone has their own perspective on it. But only a modest opinion. It was promised that if this law was passed, there would be no repetitions, so to speak. I think there's a lot more of them. Now there are, I think, even more than ever. So we can say that there is almost nothing left of it, as well as that big balloon. A balloon of words spread like some of the finances during the recession. I have to say, I don't trust the supervisory board. I think we have a right to say this, and I am surprised that there is a debate that says it is a poocracy. We always have the right to judge whether this money or the contribution of RTV is being spent rationally and meaningfully. What bothers me is a lot of what is also written in the audit report. We have observed why some claim that the audit report is written in accordance with international standards and why some claim that it is not written by international standards. And we have different documents and we have different audits. In order to clarify, yes, it is written in accordance with or is made in accordance with international standards in a chapter on financial statements and compliance with regulations, but it is not in line with international standards for those content that talk about the use of development funds talking about production, public procurement and the like. And it's explicitly written here. Of course, then we argue here in Parliament and each one shows his own paper. Perhaps even some senseless manipulation, for not all members of the board of all the documents apparently received. This document states, inter alia, that among the 199 public contracts examined by the audit house, 43 I think were not carried out in accordance with the invitation to tender. I think it's kind of getting away from me. This means that very much, even in this report, which we ourselves have commissioned for our own needs, we can see that this is a problem. Also, certain records that are not in the system are interesting, with external colleagues and so on. I believe that it is very difficult to apologize for the fact that a few ten employees are less than they are if, on the other hand, we do not know what the data is, and how it is with external colleagues, and if something is also hidden in records that are not in the system, as it says here. I must also say that what was said on the committee in connection with the survey, by which the management justified the legitimate representation of cultural content, ratings and the like, does not convince me. It does not convince me, however, because this is a research commissioned by INTERSTAT, which has grown from the research department of SPEM, which everyone in Slovenia or something that we are connected to, who works for, or who are the poor in this company, which has experienced a huge boom in the last four years, as far as ordering, business and so on. In short, the strange taste of the sale of shares will remain, despite the fact that we have received assurances, I also believe that these shares have not been sold, it would probably be too much if we lied so much at all ends that it is not true. Although it is funny that you have such a text on one side, on the other, and that, of course, we all revolve around these content and credibility, and that is the problem. As far as the subscription's concerned. Today, it seems to me that there has been a great deal of interference from colleagues who come to them, that I will say, at the beginning of the mandate, that this government was faced with severe financial problems, of which RTV is in some ways even "forced", in sayings, accepting or approaching the need to increase the subscription fee by one euro. And what I could read on my own in the media is that this leadership of Grims' television, so-called Grims' television, clearly says that the previous government has granted them and promised them 10 million euros for the payout. But at the same time, it's true that she promised to run it after the election. Perhaps in terms of what is happening now, perhaps something else, because it is interesting that the funds that the previous government has given for digitisation have already been spent, I will say, in the wrong way for wages, but with, in my opinion, knowledge and also with the behaviour of those who have done so. So today, to speak and misinterpret this guilt, whoever did this is again one of those things that we listen to all the time by the former government, which was just gold, great and even oh. But this is where you left your passport. Your minister has regulated wages in the public sector and has set such enormously high wages as I will say today, no one can pay any more. In particular, you did not provide TV at the same time with the means to pay for it. And this is the journey that the minister of Shirtz has received to relieve her in the very first hour of her ministry. So much for that. Once again, I regret that we do not decide on those conclusions today, and I am not ashamed of them, because I think that one of those who also pay for the contribution to RTV agrees that business is not economical, does not comply with the basic guidelines and mission of this activity and does not meet all the universality and representation of cultural programmes as should public television.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u83	Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, for the intermediation of a little memory that goes back three or up to five years ago, because today the word of one of the colleagues who represented the position of his party was misused. That is, the abuse of a member of the committee is called the working body of the National Assembly. What a big difference there is in understanding and speaking from three years ago. Three years ago, the National Assembly, this Chamber was abused, I will use this word to deal with the leadership, the leadership of RTV of the day, and to accept an invention or law, as one of the Members proposed by the Member was praised. Today, however, you resent the fact that the Member wrote down a few conclusions or that the Government should have written them down for a meeting of the parent’s working body. So much for different vats and different views within three to five years. Second fact. Today, something in the debate has already mentioned that this debate is unnecessary. I must point out that you may be partly right, but definitely not because the shares of Eutelsata and the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia are owned by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which it put in the management of RTV Slovenia five years ago. Those who have a memory, and some of you have even participated in it, remember the debate on RTV in the then programming world, the control council and here in the National Assembly, when the previous leadership and the previous programming council were, what you said about these people who sold these shares and explicitly committed these digitalisation funds, in the first decision adopted by the then programming world. So far has come if memory does not deceive me that there has been an illegal decision in the programming world on all those who have participated in this sale from the management, that they must leave their functions, and on the pressure, on the pressure, on the pressure, I can say, the opposition policies of the time and some who have been on the RTV of Slovenia in the service that they have done this majority in this programming world. Of course, that didn't happen later. Some Members, who mentioned the then President of the Programme Council 247 times in the National Assembly, remembered what they had said about it. Today, after four years, you find that this is silver from which the development of RTV Slovenia can be financed. So it would be good to take a little look back and remember what you were saying and what you requested and what you've achieved once. The signatories of the open letter, which they also addressed to the National Assembly, wrote, inter alia, quote: "RTV Slovenia is not an economic enterprise, but a distinct cultural institution of great influence and range, as it is supposed to spread culture in the broadest sense of the concept", the end of the quote. I fully agree with this conclusion and direction myself, but with a small addition, that does not mean that RTV does not have to behave economically and plan its activities in the programme area within the available resources, especially as a good host. And that, I understand, is the content of today's debate, the content of today's debate: is it the leadership and all those responsible for it on RTV, or have they acted economically on financial resources, which they deliberately used as part of a plan adopted by the RTV Programme Council? As can be seen from the audit report, regarding the use of development funds for the period 2007/2010, these or supervisors did not address the issue of the unjustified, non-intentional use of these funds, but only by waiting because I prefer that word to those approved projects that were recorded in the programme's three-year programme. And so it also happened that the funds were also used inadvertently for updating, directing, purchasing overheads, financing family continuations, etc., etc. Last but not least for the third RTV route, this is what we call a parliamentary programme. Therefore, the funds intended to be intended mainly and exclusively, I would stress once again, for the technical and technological development of TV, were intended to commercialise the programme, buy licences, invest money from bonds into commercial projects and so on. This is recorded in all the papers, not least in the audit report. The consequences of this are, of course, bad, we cannot say that they are good. Already in the programming areas themselves - in the opinion of those who create programmes on TV and those who are some sort of evaluators - have come to estimates of marginalisation. These things are also written in some of the papers you received from members of our parliamentary committee. For example, for cultural broadcasts compared to commercialisation, it is clearly written that they are marginalised, even when it comes to "prime-time" and so on. Last but not least, if the management and the supervisory board decided to use development funds differently, in the broadest sense, as in 2004 then the other decision, which was not only related to digitisation, would be much fairer and much more rational and, last but not least, much more prudent, that these funds, if used unintentionally, would be earmarked for their own production and not for the purchase of licensed broadcasts. Then these funds would really have a broader approach to the development of RTV Slovenia, given the opportunity to create and, last but not least, work and employment nowadays mainly for the staff at home in Slovenia. Now, according to this own production, Slovenia's Television Archive dominates the most important and within its own production. You can see that for yourself through the shows. Indeed, this own production, the use of the RTV Archive of Slovenia does not require large financial supplies, does not require high costs, does not burden the budget and expenses of Television. But I am not entirely sure if this is the only reason that it dominates within this own production, this own programme, just because of financial matters. If we have listened to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board today, then there are no major problems on RTV. I will quote: "The Supervisory Board notes that the financial operation of the public institution has been positive in the past year. Financial operations are also positive during the first quarter of this year. In a period of crisis which reached the end of last year, the public institution became liquid and financially strong." Above all, here is my emphasis on "financially strong". If that is true, then I wonder why the journalists and the press union and the Union sent this letter to all Members, which we have received today, and in which are some of the facts which directly challenge this finding and this position expressed by the President of the National Assembly?Oh, my God! And I'm going to go in line, and I'm only going to give five brief facts in this letter. The letter informs us, Members and everyone else, that with the poor and the institution's harmful management of the personnel and knowledge of the management of RTV Slovenia and the control council, and their play, I stress the fraud, the legality for which they are obliged to care. Second fact. If you are unionally active as an organiser and leader, a contractor, you will be on the priority list of those whom the Director-General will not extend to them. All these facts are clearly and accurately documented. Thus, it is not just a dry, out-of-the- context fact. Third. The management is opposed to 109 employees and contract workers of the daily IT programme, it is said that only one programme has been signed a petition which has been forwarded to the Director-General. It stated that the cancellation of the contracts to the tournament editors means bullying and threatening all the participants and so on. Fourth fact. They proposed to develop employment plans, to align the status of those wishing to remain contractors with regular employees, as envisaged by the collective contract for professional journalists, to align the position of contract staff in all RTV Slovenia editorial units and so on. Leadership doesn't even want to react. And the fifth fact that the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors in 2005 were not resolved either at the time of the audit and not until now. Some of them are drifting today, and they're not gone. And in the end, the sixth fact, the benefits of short-term financial constraints are obvious, but they are achieved in an illegal way. And to me, this claim that someone who is employed in this institution hopes to record this situation publicly today is very rare and it is impossible and unacceptable that leadership and all authorities on RTV Slovenia ignore this letter and these views and these facts. And I'll say one more thing. The RTV program, what I see on the screen, there's no reporters. But it can be without leadership and these organs. Therefore, leadership and these authorities should establish a dialogue with these people and reach some consensus with them. I'm not sure at the end that only RTV management is aware of this problem and I think it's under the rug. The number of freelance and contract journalists is indeed high. And if 200 of them do work at such a difficult level and under such conditions as regular employees, then I ask for an answer why at least some of them do not get regular employment. But on the contrary, people at 30, 35 years of age in a public institution work through a student's travel license.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tom Mencinger has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, the honors are here! National national RTV is a public institution that benefits public funds for its operations and is expected to operate in practice in the public interest. Let's ask ourselves if our RTV actually works. I am sure that leadership is, as such, often like to use words too politically contaminated, and I will also say it in this qualification. The result of such a political structure in the RTV leadership itself is relations on RTV itself, which we can say are not good. Here we have lawsuits, we have heard that there are 400 of them only in the area of wages, here we have resources in the RTV budget, to settle these lawsuits that will come, which are exactly EUR 7 million, which confirms that there is some responsibility and also feels that these actions will also have to be covered by RTV. The next thing that is very worrying is the hospital stocks, which we have just heard are higher than the Slovenian average, which confirms once again what I said earlier that relations on RTV are not at all good. Therefore, it will be necessary to make an assessment of the situation on RTV, to review only the organisation as an institution and to start with some reorganisation of the public institution RTV. We have heard many times that the content of the program is good and quality. Here I have to agree with the predecessor who mentioned the archive and these old movies. I think it's the denial of viewers and viewers and those who pay for these things. I think there will have to be something done in this part on the content itself. I am confident that RTV as an institution will have to set some goals that will be subordinated to quality, independence, autonomy. The content as such, let me repeat again, is supposed to be of real quality, in this sense we have already listened from some speakers. It has to have a vision, it has to have some goals, these objectives are from equipment, programmes and content, and in fact some traceability of these objectives, which are set for a period of time. Here I would also like to point out the problem of SAZAS and, in essence, the SAZAS action against RTV because, in fact, RTV does not pay for this service. Let me say that in practice, the thing is that humanitarian societies that organise an event recover these funds by means of execution, and here we are essentially joking and not covering these things. Therefore, I would least expect RTV to be the one to take the initiative to amend the legislation in force allowing SAZAS to do so. The next thing we heard today by the minister that the shares are Slovenian property, we heard some individuals that the funds for the equipment were used for other purposes, we heard the problem of wages, the content itself and the programme and we could also list them. That is why I am confident, and I also support all those who feel that this matter must be examined through the Court of Auditors. I would like to say that I see no problem here, because the RTV leadership also agreed on this, so I don't know why we're afraid of it. Therefore, the operation of the RTV institution should be reviewed by the Court of Auditors, and these findings will then be presented in all likelihood to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u87	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! After all that we've heard today, I can say that I don't remember such scandalous, brutal or, if you want, the rematching of the public service of RTV Slovenia, not even from that previous system. And that's just because it shows that they allowed themselves to say, in the supervisory world and in leadership, that the public service business is positive. As a result, a reprimand of accusations, discredits, and everything that is possible and what we have heard here today has been dropped on them. Even so, they hoped to boast, we could hear. This is totally in style first the discreditation and then the liquidation. And it's in style known as the proverbial content of a broom that they say can be a cleaning tool, it can be a ventilation and recovery tool, it can be a developmental grip, but it can also be a method of replacing anyone who is not "ours". And today this method of broom is constantly heard from this side across from me. I just don't understand why it bothers you so much if RTV works positively if it works well. Five years ago, in this very house, we discussed the report on the state of RTV at the time; it was catastrophic. It's a disaster! I wouldn't read to you what was written down because we talked about it too much at the time. And today the situation is completely different. The situation has normalized. Of course it's not ideal. But in which house is the situation ideal? It's not like that. But it's essential, it's much better. And in these four years, a lot has changed for the better. But you just can't get over it today, so all these serious accusations that I'm not going to make again. That's why I'm saying it's brutal and scandalous and, if you want, a rematched treatment as a preparation to replace the entire leadership. Okay, but you can do it by not spitting out the whole house and all the people who work there. Last but not least, I will slowly begin to understand why there are so many bankruptcys and so many negatives. But if there's a positive thing that bothers you so much. If one company is doing positive and good, which is particularly positive in these times, send one bunch of cops and one bus to investigate. This is happening now. Those who do good have such problems, not those who do bad things to investigate what happened. But the ones that are good. And then two ministers sunbathe in a beam of light and explain what criminals are looking for there. And that's what's happening on RTV right now. I won't be surprised to hear today, tomorrow or the next day that police officers stopped at RTV and a busload of criminals investigating something. And then, of course, they're going to take a bunch of paperwork in the beam. That's what I'm expecting. That's what happened here today. And I wouldn't be surprised. And second of all, if I'm looking at the order of events. 9. 4. we have considered this report. The independent auditor's report shall, however, have a date of 3. 4. But we did not receive this information at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Sport and Youth. It's said that someone was knowingly hiding the data. Why? Because we received two conclusions at the Committee meeting saying that the Supervisory Board, by its decisions, had allowed the Public Service to fail to fulfil its mission and so on and that the Supervisory Board had failed to carry out its tasks satisfactorily and had not properly supervised its business and so on. However, the audit report clearly states that the public administration of TV Slovenia is the accounting institution of 31st day. 12. 2008 took into account the provisions of the Radio Television Act and so on, so that I do not read everything yet. This is said because this report was positive, we did not receive it at the meeting, but you already knew it, especially the management of the committee. The president knew that, but she wanted to force these two aboriginal and incriminating decisions, which were then not adopted. Thank God they weren't accepted. That's one piece of evidence that she was, and now I'm going to use the words of my colleague who repeatedly uses it, that's conspiracy theory. But that's evidence because the dates indicate it. The report says it was okay, it's good that I won't read what was right. However, the conclusions were such as to show the opposite. And we didn't get this report, it was hidden because then the course of events turned like this, it was no longer possible to hide it, because it was already publicly known what the report said and that the report existed. Of course, there is if it had a date before we discussed it on the committee. And look, I just can't understand why it bothers you so much if this public office is doing a good job. And you have to wrap it up to replace everything that can be replaced and what can't be replaced. You have every right to do so, and I am not surprised that this is also a public letter signed by the public RTV management to try to criminalise the leadership of RTV Slovenia at all costs without its representatives pointing out any relevant facts or taking into account audit reports. Now I'm going to use the words that have already been used today: "If someone today hopes to sign a letter like this, then I don't think they can ignore it." That's one way to put it. Also, these letters, written in the lead of public RTV, must not be ignored because they are false accusations. And that's what turned out. Next thing you know, that's what I want to say. In the context of this broom, which I mentioned earlier, where everything can be hidden, from accusations, to praise, there is talk of a better programme, why there is no better programme that has been promised and so on. The question is, what is a better program? If you ask someone, he'll say, "The better program is, if there's more sports, then the program is better." The second will say, "If there are more Mexican sequels, this program is better and people look at it with all its strength and weight." Someone will say, "Yes, the program would be better if you had more children's shows." The next one would say, "If there were more of these talk shows." Then the next one would say, "If there were more expert shows from any area." That's what they say. Everyone has their own view of a good program, a better program. What would be better? Give more sport, and we'll watch more, and the program will certainly be better. It is likely that one of the aspects or foundations of the program is whether the program is good or bad. And now to accuse the RTV office of going into commercialization to gain greater ratings. Commercialisation is also a matter that we can discuss what it is. If you say that because maybe some show is more viewed, but now it's commercialized, it's easy. But someone else can look at the matter differently. But ratings, quality is a very relative concept that depends on "eyes that have their painter." This does not mean that the ratings of a broadcast are bad, but you will not prescribe to people that they should not watch and that they have a bad opinion of it if they want to watch. Today it has been said that it is probably the wish of the public institution to make such shows, to have such shows, to have such content that people see, but not to prepare broadcasts and content that no one sees and are intended for themselves or perhaps ten sweets, but we cannot now say that this is a better program, because we have created one such show that we do not know where to give it and no one does not want to see it. So let's say that we talk about better quality and more about that and that, but you only talk about cultural content. Okay, that doesn't bother me. I dropped it on purpose earlier when I was talking about a better program, cultural content, because now I want to draw attention to it. It is not necessarily necessary for all people to agree to do so. Earlier, I had counted seven or eight contents that some would say would be more popular because they were more interested. Like a sport. That's what it says, culture is just one of those parts. Now criticizing leadership and talking about how bad they do because they have neglected or less cultural content or not enough, perhaps it is a better expression: not enough cultural content, but it is a major sin to do bad. That's not true. Only part of the population is who's gonna say it. And that's the same thing. But do not impose on another part that may be more interested in other content, sports or sequels or anything that they must watch cultural shows. You can't do that. And as a result, to accuse the leadership if it has given some more time to other content to give bad. Last but not least, he's 24 hours old. Within 24 hours, you can give content for 24 hours if you give more than one content, but something will have to be taken on the other side. Consider now a major sin if there were no specific content or even a specific broadcast that I will not mention what kind of broadcasts it is. That's very one-sided. But it is, and I agree with all those who say that all that is happening now is that report, but in fact that is the result, the reason is somewhere else. The reason is that you want to replace RTV leadership, which, of course, you have the right to. Who's defending you? You have these options. It just doesn't have to be in this context now that you're mutilating everything you're about to discredit, and then you're going to say yes, and now it's really necessary, and now these people are so messed up that it's last time to replace them. There's so much manure on them, it stinks so bad that we really have to replace them so they don't belong there anymore. That's not necessary. And don't defend businesses or institutions or institutions that do business positively and even the director hopes to say that he is doing business positively. Are you really so happy when a company says it's having problems? Are you so happy if the company goes bankrupt and the workers are on the road? You're helping them anyway. You can't give more than 25,000 euros to, let's say, get rid of some stuff in the fridge. You can't even do that. But here you work with all the means to trick people into seduction, to replace companies that do well. And then you say something's wrong. How can it be wrong if the company is doing well? That is, if I don't know who's in charge, but if the company works well at this time, then you can't say that leadership is bad. You can replace it, that's no problem. Just don't say he's doing bad. A business that works well is likely to have good leadership. Maybe not ideal, but good. These are the facts. And today, you've gone after all these companies that are positive. You bring in a criminal bus and then you roll for a week, so everyone's all wrapped around. And you're most enjoying it all going "from the ground." Six months ago, you said you knew differently and better. You know better than that! Otherwise, you know, me! But look what happened six months ago, what is it now? Everything that's happened, of course, you can't stop it. But half of it can. You don't have to destroy the companies, the ones that do good. And RTV is one of these. This public office is one of these. This is a typical example of how you do things differently. Better not, but otherwise, and it's fundamentally different. That's because you're covering everything up, which is good. Why, I don't get it. Maybe we'll figure out why, and you'll figure out it's a mistake. You have all the tools in your hands, and you have every right to replace people, if you think they're doing bad, despite having positive results. Perhaps it would be better to replace people in those companies that operate poorly and have negative statements and the state must intervene and help. It might be better there, but it's harder there, it's not going there. So I'm glad that those two stupid conclusions, the aboriginal conclusions with which you wanted to wrap up this leadership, weren't adopted. But as for those four, I'll be selective. Most of the damage does not work, but it will certainly not help to make sure that you are faster or later replacing RTV leadership, which is your primary purpose. However, I am glad that after five years, when I was five years ago also here in the debate on the state of RTV, that the situation has changed significantly. That today this leadership and this oversight council could write a little bit more encouraging numbers, much more encouraging than those that were five years ago when we discussed here. I'm glad. But if you think that this leadership needs to be replaced now, do your thing, just don't overwhelm all the people who did good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u89	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u90	Who triggered the debate, which, by accident today, is brought together in two points? The debate was opened with a fundamental and very meaningful question last year by the distinguished representatives of the National Council for Culture: Mr Drago Jančar, Mr Jemec, Mrs Salecljeva, Mr Pipanič, Mr Zupanič, the film Children, author Petrička, and also Mrs Stepančič. The subject was not only about the malnutrition of educational, cultural content on the radio, but also on television. The theme didn't just happen that way, but at the time it was. And in this sense, the text of Mr Jančar, threatened by the Third Radio Programme of the ADR, has also gone, which is the main carrier of specific content, content that will never be broadcast by any commercial television because it is not being paid. This should be taken into account, and I think it is right that the committee which dealt with this subject in the National Assembly did so with competence and that this has been underlined by the vote that this subject is also addressed at the meeting of the National Assembly. It was combined with that mandatory examination of the report of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, which we have here in the National Assembly, and we will probably have it in the future as the only verification option, not only does it carry out its mission to the public office, whether it is public enough, whether it is democratic enough, whether it is plural enough, or whether it is sufficiently satisfactory to follow its legal principles, but also whether it is sufficiently controlled. Now in the discussion you note - and I would like to make some further comments - that this was done by the Supervisory Council well, because the public institution operates well and because it has better numbers than they have in the past. Of course, I wonder why, after that, Mr Director knocked on the Ministry of Culture and asked for an increase in the RTV contribution. Why did he say that he had already asked Mr Janša in April 2008 and the President of the Government then said to him: "No, you will not have a higher contribution, save as you know and know, you will only have it when the elections are over." Why he wrote a memorandum and why he reasoned that the state must help RTV Slovenia because it is sinking in losses. Now, of course, we have nice numbers and if what, the state has to ask itself if on the one hand someone says that they are sinking in losses and that they need the help of the country or the viewers, the audiences and the audiences, why then, on the other hand, the testimony is different, satisfactory, as Mr Petek would say, which is not currently in the hall, why the operation of RTV is positive and why it has never been before. And he compared this business to the operation of Borut Pahor's new government, which he said was no longer positive. Today, the situation in RTV is better not only because of a contribution that will help and has changed after almost four, five years, but also because every second it has the silver that has been produced in the past, the silver that has been criminalized in the past, now this silver also draws with development programs, including good programs, and perhaps for someone with questionable programs, this public institution from distress. This silver does not have Borut Pahor’s government, even in the economy, because it was lost because it was not a reserve for the dry cow period. For this reason, the Supervisory Councils should be reviewed. Maybe you should also look at the control councils that were here, let's say that, otherwise not with the "plonk" leaves, but here they were given, who tried to exercise their control of the institution to the best of their ability. They say it's good. I am indeed an art historian, I am not a financier, but I am still in the review of the statements that are also in the reports given by the public agency and which are under the responsibility of reviewing supervisors who are financiers, well, also veterinarians, but however, who are familiar with their work, should be, I am faced with an anomaly that is unclear to me: why the revenue shown is greater than the expenditure and in this light the business is positive. Why? In view of the fact that not only an RTV contribution is considered to be revenue but also all the financial revenues shown from dividends, from bonds, from fixed reserves, and from the Durs refunds on paid traffic tax, which expired in 1996 and so on. Therefore, revenue also shows what, when necessary, shows that it is a loss, and this in the memorandum which was the basis for the request for an RTV contribution, has been shown to come in handy. There's a problem. I think that's what I think we need to discuss within the National Assembly. It is also appropriate to open up on the parental committee, and this is the responsibility of the National Assembly. For the National Assembly, all of you, with the majority of your votes, can give a confidential voice and confirm the Supervisory Council and also the Programme Council as a result that you will then choose leadership as you can only confirm it. There is something else to say because Mr Friend has returned to the hall so that there is no misunderstanding. We talked earlier about the Court of Auditors. I have already said in my own view that I support the decision to carry out an in-depth analysis of the business on RTV Slovenia. The Court of Auditors informed us yesterday, Mr Friend, of the reckless distribution of budget money in the so-called Media Pluralisation Fund, back, for the past year. This is a report on the implementation of the performance review of the so-called Media pluralisation Fund, within the media fund, which was in place, in the work of the previous mandate, which, for the Fund, we had many, not only critical public, including the professional public, many doubts and many warnings. These doubts have now proved true, but it is not about any business that took place this year or after autumn, after the change of government. It is a comprehensive reporting of the inadvertent allocation of funds, without knowing the objectives, without knowing the criteria and determining to whom, what and how tax money is allocated for so-called content and so-called media pluralisation. And that is why I say once again that it is necessary to know that once competent institutions enter the intestines of accounts and balances, then there is no exit, no hiding and no concealment. It is therefore right that the operation of RTV Slovenia, and in particular the decision of the key management bodies, should be placed under the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors. These appeals were brought to the attention of the members of the Governing Council themselves, either between the lines or without cover. In particular, some doubters within them, who abstained repeatedly, had reservations, dilemmas or even opposed them. And if anyone, the credibility will be confirmed by the Court of Auditors, if any, will be demonstrated by the audit of the Court of Auditors, which, of course, I hope, will work significantly deeper, because it will have different powers and because it has different powers, as those who submitted the material and, by the way, the distinguished President here, we had reservations on the Government, because this audit report, which is part of today's material, and which, as I have seen on television, has been brought to the second follow-up session of the Committee on Education, Culture and Youth, by the Director of RTV Slovenia and has thus offered it to you. And once you've finished the session, it looked like this on the RTV informative part of the contribution, we don't, I've obtained it, I've studied it, and, of course, you've also very much remembered the conclusion where the auditors are essentially distanced from their own work, which they obviously did, because they say the procedures they carried out are neither audit nor investigation in accordance with international standards, and so on and so forth, so this report doesn't give any assurance about the institution's conduct in relation to development projects and so on and so on, and we've heard it many times today. In short, this material, which is part of the material, which has not been dealt with by the Committee, has been received and accepted, but if we already have it, let me point out that this audit report, which also distances itself from a very milky interpretation, speaks of the fact that 3 million Euros of orders were made on RTV without tenders. 3 million at the Ministry of Culture means the operation of one whole public institution, such as one archive, two, three archives. Without the invitation to tender to negotiate where it was necessary to negotiate without prior consideration. That there are shortcomings in the preparation of the budgets. In order to determine in the final accounts that the ratio of external co-producer inputs is completely different from the original agreed ones. In short, one number was displayed and then another number was paid. That the principles of external prices, not their own internal prices, were applied. There are strange accounts of overnight stays, frequents, shopping in stores and so on in the review of the costs incurred on individual projects. That, in certain cases, contracts were concluded when the work had already been done. In short, it's only right that doubts disperse. If we may wander into the void and waste time, I think not, then it is only right that those who have the professional tools to do so use it to give us the answers we each have our own views on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Member Lucky Friend thinks his discussion was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u92	If I may have a replica. Dear Minister, we believe in you in the Slovenian National Party. I believe you'll put things in the right place. But something bothers me, you say, the Court of Auditors found out that the Supervisory Board is warning you that there are untransparent millions spent, that's what it sounded like. I would say that when it comes to public finances, if there is an irregularity, of course, action should also be taken. I am satisfied with what you have told me, only if these findings, which will be relevant, will be legally sustainable if these findings are followed by measures. Last but not least, when I see it on national television, you did not answer me, RTV Slovenia, to have the regional program Koper - Italian program, Slovenian subtitles. I will be very happy because I feel that the minority travels most in Slovenia. That's because 70% of the program, respected minister, is in Italian. There are no Slovenian subtitles. I don't know if they're interested in Italian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat as representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you. Just a brief explanation. Following the obstruction of Members and Members of the opposition parliamentary groups, the meeting was suspended and a third decision was opened at the first meeting following the 5th meeting. Because there was a lot of writing in the media about how RTV representatives didn't get the word, let me just say for the information that they couldn't get it because we only had a vote. That they wanted to deliver the audit report. In this regard, the Committee adopted an additional decision to forward this report as additional material for the meeting of the National Assembly, including the Committee on this material, and we received it to the National Assembly on 10 April. Thus, the material, I stress, has been transmitted as a material for this item of the agenda without being treated on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Silva Črnugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Miran Potrč. Well-known Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I do not like the topic of today's 12th plenary session of the National Assembly or year after year, especially not how it is formulated, namely the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV and the report on the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. I think that we have discussed both issues quite a lot at many meetings of the Committee on Culture, Sport and Youth, that we have said a lot. I've learned a lot personally. And if culture is a process and if culture is a process and if culture is still a process and if it is still a process, I think that we will also learn from other colleagues and colleagues from all of this, especially given the fact that dialogue, particularly cultural dialogue, is particularly important in Slovenia and not least in the European Union, that we must learn to listen in this cultural dialogue, learn to hear and, on the basis of this, also to act and, in line with the process, change. It's not easy to change, but, but, at some point, it's sometimes necessary, and it's going to have to change something, because they're dissatisfied with each other, and the discussion tells us why, in what way. We have heard a lot of short summaries, a summary of the debate from both committees, a summary of the various debates of the last mandate period in terms of the reminiscence "yet remember comrades", what was good and what was not good, what was said and what was not said, how and how someone was sneezing, what was warned and how it all happened today. However, it is up to us and not least the government and the minister herself. But respect will be needed. Cultural policy is, as a result of the cultural process described above, a kind of static and a constant of this endless process. I would like to point out that this statistic in cultural policy in Slovenia is represented by laws, rules, lawyers, treaties, decrees, broader resolutions, declarations, methodologies, standards, norms and much more, not least a very important national programme. We designed it, we changed it, we published it in different forms of such books, and I don't know what they were, but they were always comments and they will be, but they will. Our cultural policy has a lot of ground, because we are now in Europe, but let's see what this is all about in Europe. We can see that Europe did not have a well-formed culture policy in its initial stages, but somehow, in time, it began to shape this policy and to give it more attention. She did not have the cultural tradition Slovenia had. The culture was so important, not only in terms of culture in a narrow sense, but also in terms of politics, because culture, as such, has also shaped Slovenian politics, the Slovenian national state, etc., that we are not going to ad to this country, as everyone has gone. Europe has a general cultural policy, which is consistently taken into account, that culture is within the competence of its members, that is to say that cultural policy is our dilemma in respect of national, regional diversity and, of course, the heart is attached to cultural heritage. We can boast about it and have something to show for it. In recent years, Europe has paid a little more attention to cultural activities and has therefore adopted some strategic objectives and guidelines to be followed by all Member States. We have a study on the economics of culture in Europe, which was created in 2006 in the European Commission, and later we have received the European Agency for Culture in the World of Globalisation, in May 2007, to promote cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, once again intercultural dialogue one way or another, to promote culture as a catalyst for creativity within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth, for business, innovation and competitiveness and third, to strengthen the role of culture as an essential part of international relations. This, once again, is increasingly or less focused on strengthening dialogue and on the elements of cultural dialogue, on all those versions that relate to it as an incentive, and on what somehow connects us and works in this area. Our Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture emphasises almost every article the public - public interest, public goods and security and how this public interest can be realized. And if I take advantage of this public, but I am not going into the content, I cannot ignore and try not to tell me what an FDV student, Jernej, asked me to say, despite the fact that there will be no debate on the content of the RTV program, that despite the fact that the student is missing cartoons, he misses recordings of various theatre performances that he also misses puppet shows, so that besides sports, chess and various content, the culture of dialogue may also be some kind of video. And why not, in addition to all those archival recordings we have the opportunity to see, see recordings of any performances or events? So much for public and public interest in RTV Slovenia. If I return to today's topic and to the realization of public interest in the public institution of RTV, we can only find that in a multitude of debates we have forgotten the basic movement of democracy - our constitution and what is enshrined in Article 3 which clearly tells us that in Slovenia the authority of the people, citizens and citizens has power. This authority shall be exercised directly and through elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial powers. Throughout its series of reports, the company found in a large number of discussions that trends and trends in the public office are just like them. A number of reports have been discussed by the Parliamentary Committee and are still under discussion today. That's what we're saying. We're discussing a lot. The executive branch of the authorities, in particular the Ministry of Culture, is in turn to determine whether the law is being implemented or not, in accordance with those guidelines; to determine how, by providing for public interest, or in particular the Supervisory Board, takes into account the basis for the calculation provided for in Article 27 of the Law on the provision of public interest in the field of culture, namely: Are the bases for calculating the resources for the execution of public service funds in the public service establishment of RTV Slovenia used in accordance with the provisions of this Article? Is a more detailed methodology for determining the basis for the calculation of public service funding in the field of media sufficiently clearly defined? Is the Government on the basis of its powers and on the basis of what is said in that article; otherwise, if you are interested, I could read it here; arrange everything necessary for the implementation of this methodology? We talked about public infrastructure in the area of culture, about different cameras, about different computers, about avala, about how much money is used for avalanches, and yet we forgot that Article 70 of the same law determines how and how the property is regulated, the equipment of this institution, which is publicly owned. We've forgotten paragraph 71, what it says about infrastructure and so on. Otherwise, it has been a number of years since the adoption of this law and it would show how and how this law is enforced if any revisions are needed, based on analyses, to determine whether it is appropriate and what needs to be redefined, in particular in the part relating to the use of public funds. The use of public funds has been most problematic by all members of this Parliament. Culture was also the heart of politics for us Slovenes, so we protected it, discussed it, and especially respected the creators, culturers, poets, writers and so on. That is why we must continue to protect and care for her. And let me paraphrase one of the debaters: "We have to water it well." However, the minister’s brief instruction, whether or not she will use it, has scissors and linen in her hands. She's very creative, creative, so let her and the team roll up their sleeves. He's got a canvas for miles, and we're strengthening dialogue and good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Discompliance with regulations and internal regulations do not reflect a real financial picture of resource provision. The use of development resources has been all the way through planned and has not reflected what was expected. This is how it is understood in the auditor's report. A low subscription should not be an excuse for the poor implementation of the programmes implemented, both development and programming. Of course, uncontrolled spending on salaries and contractual co-workers was reflected in programmes that were increasingly shrinking and subject to debate. Financial sub-nutrition was certainly present and hindered development also in the programming design. Of course, there was no evidence of malnutrition of cultural content, as some mentioned. It is clear that the four-year management of the public service RTV has been poor and is losing its battle with commercial houses. This feeling is present in the audience, I may be wrong, but the feeling remains. Of course, rationalisation of personnel is expected, which will make sense, but it is necessary to retain and acquire professional and capable people who will provide quality TV programmes and ratings. Increasing the TV contribution is a reality. According to all the incentives, last but not least it is not a commercial TV, and the provision of human and financial resources is, of course, an integral part of the RTV operation. The enlargement and development project of the public institution must be in the interest of all those who also decide on it. Otherwise, they won't be able to trace commercial houses. The neutrality of the TV house is a topic that is often talked about, especially when disagreements with customers are getting higher, but this is and will be a constant and is not expected to improve in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. On the part of the opposition, we listen to the political debate with television. I think it's quite the opposite here. It is a political accounting of television management, as is evident from the letter of employees. It's political recruitment. Nothing in this letter shows how many mistakes this leadership has made. If I continue, with respect to fees, there was also a political attitude towards them when some contracts are extended for three months, the other for six months, the third by the end of the year, which depends. If I give a specific example of the director of the Multimedia Center, as the only one reported, she has mastered from the new media, she was an editor on that television, she wasn't suitable for the director, maybe because she was an editor of Studio City. If I turn to the subject of how this television is positive with financial business. This is not the only mission to television that does not make a loss, of course it is very welcome and commendable, but it is not the only mission of this television. At the same time, of course, the Director's visit to the Minister that, if there is no additional euro, workers' salaries are questionable. In 2006, the information programme editor said that I intend to draw up an information programme recovery plan by autumn. I'm gonna double-cross the editorial team. So, where are we today? Of course, it is not the main measure of the success of National Television, as far as cultural programs, sports, entertainment, and so on. In the information program, the TV Diary, which should be a parade horse of this television compared to commercial television, is almost half the size of it, is sometimes overtaken by the Council on Channel A. Finally, of course, we have to think about the meaningful spending of taxpayer money and it is not enough for this spending to be reviewed by a friendly, audit house, but it must also be done by the Court of Auditors. Don't worry about why the SDS is so much defending this leadership, because it was placed at the expense of Grims' law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Today, when we have this topic on the substantiation of cultural programmes and also on the report of the Supervisory Council, it is clear that the political interest of the current coalition is exceptional, to draw from five errors, to incriminate public RTV in any way, to bring down current leadership. And I was actually surprised by the Minister's direct invitation, not the Minister's call to the blow, here in this Chamber, that the Supervisory Council should resign, the Supervisory Council should resign after showing the public institution the most successful operation in its history, in the new country. When Mrs. Secretary of State was on that television, there was a much bigger anarchy. I think things may not have been arranged yet, but they've improved considerably. And, of course, you're talking about so-called Grimes TV. And I ask you, are Tanja Fajon, Mirjam Male, who are on your lists in other positions, the first female carriers, delegated there by Mr Grims?Oh, my God! Apparently, he's delegated them or they've been a Trojan horse for four years, and you're going to be devastated by Brussels. It'll be the other way around, ladies and gentlemen. TV is still your fort, and ideological, especially radio, like Val 202. When you listen in the morning, all four years, when we have firmly held this RTV, the incredible sarcasm and the incredible inventions of some of Vala's morning leaders 202, as well as the insults at the expense of those who sit here and also the then authorities. That was so-called Grimes RTV for you? Look, I have to say that you are willing to use everything to eliminate a significantly better situation and positive movements in public RTV. And in this light, I see you've abused the National Council for Culture. For I see this statement quite differently than you see it. I support the statement and see it as support for the current leadership, which has done much, but it is aware that it occurred at a time when the intentions of the current government and the current minister began to be clearly visible. This statement and this material of this debate were intended to preserve and improve the current situation. And it is also what you are doing today, what Mrs Potrata has done on the Committee on the abuse of known names, such as Drago Jančar, Mitja Chander, Ženja Leiler, to mention only some who have recently excelled with some extraordinary contributions that you have not yet read because they do not fit you. Let me just mention the dysentery on Gen. Leiler Avenue, which would have put the work on page nine, not page one, although it's maximum up-to-date and deep. Let me mention Mitja Chandra's interview in the Journal's annex when she says when she's doing a media review throughout the whole period, and she says: "The media today simply lack and effectively control the centres of power and, at the same time, do not mainly open conceptual debates on the nature of our society, but quickly satisfy themselves with banalism. At some point, this could lead to a severe social crisis." We have it, a social crisis. Analysts, that's great! You should read a lot more from this interview and this applies to the entire media, it is not just RTV and, of course, it also talks about RTV, how it has been in history, until now. He says: "The RTV has always been considered state television, the editors have been set up with all due care. It was a space that the current political option understood as its polygon." And you understand it as your own polygon. He continues: "A few years ago Mitja Ribičič made me laugh when he made a statement on the charge of postwar killings that he felt terrible that he had to learn about it from the information broadcast "our central propaganda institution". You know when the Ljubljana court dropped the charge, it wasn't Janš's government then and so on. It doesn't seem strange to me that this abuse of this good document has taken place, I must say. Madam Minister, our former colleague, has set herself a clear task and a clear goal that the Mahnic of modern time will be from the left orthodox viewpoints. I've told her before when she was sitting in these benches, or at some inappropriate debate, that with Gregorčič's mark is "the storm from Crassus" because they are, I think, from the same place at home. I was surprised Gregorčič didn't know you. But, unfortunately, the goal is to focus on the means and the goal is to re-state television, to prevent the degree of autonomy of the editors and editors who achieved it on television and on the radio during this period. Take it as state television. And the strict obedience that editors and journalists, if I say gravely, respond to the order of authority, that grave, I will say, to the leg. So, as fast as this order is, you know how they can write, what they can say, what they can say. To this end, you are using incredible arguments here today. You're talking about censorship and it's clear, television management and editors, tell me one example of censorship during this period. Before that, they were incredible enough under your tactics. Then there is the example of the cartoon in the new term, and it is known that, while this is a banal question and it is right to do so on the proposal of parents, if they want to, but the ratings have reportedly increased by 12% in the new term. Then a professor used the ratings of the fifth element, which has not been on the show for five years. Grab every argument. I don't know why a five-year-old show is being used to discredit the current television leadership. And I can't accept this, as you explain it, in the form offered by the National Council for Culture, by those positive thinkers. And you in general. I must say that even in information shows, the only thing I do not agree with is that the particularly noticeable absence of cultural content in information shows has been reduced. But I can't agree with that. Since the time when the Minister was a cultural editor and a journalist there, things have improved significantly. Young journalists, editors who have an excellent show every day after Reflections, excellent blocks on culture, Maja Bahar, Nina Jerman, Tina Šrot, Nataša Globočnik, Živa Rogelj and so on, and ADR 360 before Sunday, now on Saturday, are unique contributions from these journalists. And now you are also watering these young forces that have so much improved the situation since the time that some of you have led a gray policy there. They have been an exhibitor of some power centers, about what Mitja Chandar says, now more is essential in this area in the information block. I've been following so many media outlets, I think I can say it on a scale. The quality of journalists has also improved. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, don't move around, get rid of these overtures, without these lies, get rid of them, get rid of these people on TV, because you're going to do so and so on. It seems to me that it's literally untasteful of this overture, yours or the present authority, these scenarios that have been made. Look, I've been watching today, in Hit, changing the board, and they've given us ten days between the holidays to prepare the program. This isn't a serious deadline for the Hit program. Let them say who they have chosen as the new director, not all these scenarios and all this deception of the people, how this is all democratically accepted. So the situation on RTV has improved significantly despite the modest contribution. The programs have improved. It is true that they had to adapt slightly to the commercialization of television, indeed, but the situation improved. But you don't have the pride to publicly admit it. I'm sorry, you're probably just "pressors" and an extended period of power centers, and you need to act that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u104	I do not allow the National Council for Culture, which is autonomous, in this National Assembly, a body, a body, a set and a collection of authority on culture, wider behaviour, science and art to speak poorly or manipulate it. The National Council for Culture on the Committees for Culture in the National Assembly in the previous year has thus not reached a conclusion. However, it came to a strong conclusion and reflected in the public and their words reflected in this space, and may have moved more than once, as was the case with politics itself. The names we have mentioned today are worthy of respect. I would like them to continue their work when their term expires; fortunately, some will if you confirm them here. And we can be glad we had them. March, May and earlier last year they wrote: "The National Council for Culture understands culture within the framework of public television in the broadest sense, which means that it does not just include broadcasts on culture and other cultural content, for example, a play programme, but that cultural care should be represented in all television programmes." All the TV shows. Of course, because this is being corrected a little bit, as soon as the National Council or the Committee on Culture meets in the National Assembly, every other day, every third day, just for one week, no more. "In doing so, the National Council for Culture," said Mr Jančar, Mr Zupanič, Mrs Štepančič, Dr Renata Salec, Mr Jemec in May 2008, "especially stresses greater concern for the relevant language culture." Language culture, Mr Jerovšek. On all television programmes, at the same time responsible editors and management call for cultural programmes to be complemented by content that is rarely represented on television or not at all. By the way, the next one goes into one; some don't want to go because it's on the show at eleven o'clock or midnight; the omisines on the subject of culture. Some were canceled because of the deadline. This set includes more complex content, i.e. the set that the National Council for Culture wants, which in an analytical and in-depth manner represent cultural developments, individual exposed themes and authors with significant achievements. Which means they're only talking about not deepening, not going into the void of some kind of intellectual power, not staying invisible, not talking on public television about things that are overlooked. And that it is important that we pay attention to what is not present, not just what is present. So it's also about the absence of programs. Furthermore, in May 2008 the National Council for Culture fully supports the responsible editors and their co-workers in the implementation of their concepts and programming strategies. We know that, say, the broadcast or the third programme, the Ars programme, was at risk at the time. Well, the threat continued later. Editors should be given complete autonomy in their work, he says. And at the same time as the National Council for Culture says that it is necessary for editors to be granted complete autonomy, we know, and this still continues today, that some editors or assistants of editors or colleagues in editorial cities have come with some data and requirements, including those of the National Council for Culture, so that this intellectual space or environment should be treated differently. And what happened to them? They're by the word, they're by the power, and they're by the influence. We know who we're talking about. Let's say why. Among other things, these people drew attention to something that the Governing Council should consider. This control council that you say is politically incriminating. But the Supervisory Board has never discussed overpaid purchases of films on RTV Slovenia. Never! The report itself, signed by Mr Guzei, is also about a memorandum which shows a desire for a higher contribution from last year and which we have examined and, after all, taken into account in the fact that you have accepted a higher RTV contribution, says that TV Slovenia is extremely unsuccessful in the price of the rights to buy films and broadcasts that are on the market. I admit it. But it doesn't say why. Because I guess the Court of Auditors will have a chance to check that out, I guess, I don't know. It is said that around EUR 2 million was spent on RTV in 2007, approximately EUR 700,000. In 2009, they were to be allocated almost twice as much, 5 million 370,000 euros for a similar scale. Why? Supposedly, because purchase decisions are taken by means of competent regulation, the one which the National Council for Culture says should be autonomous. However, they are signed for a public institution with significantly more unfavourable offers. For example, TV is with Croatian society, a company representing Southeast Europe signed a contract to buy three packages of films. Prices are expected to vary significantly and the prices that he has negotiated, I apologize to the expression, this autonomous department of regulation is significantly different than those that were signed by the management without the knowledge of the regulation. It's worse. It's three times bigger. In 2000, the price for the sample film was EUR 4,284. The contract is signed with EUR 6,000 for the film. The whole package, at that time 57 films amounted to EUR 340 thousand. In 2007, prices from the first package, which reached 6,000 euros per film, jumped to about 10,000 euros per film. The whole package was already half a million euros. Let me just say these prices that went 4,200, 6,000, 10,000, not only that, but also the problem is landing national television as a powerful, as a very powerful player, it would be said, a market player, in a blackmailing way of tied trade, that is to say, you give two good movies, and you sell them in between 10 of them. In short, you're making a lot of uninteresting and date-old movies with an interesting film. If that's true, I'm not saying it's true because I have no proof. People who today cannot speak or influence or decide or any way their behaviour and knowledge can use and be helped by RTV Slovenia think so. I don't know, but if that's the case, it's bad, and that's why you're here in the Surveillance Council to control whether that's the case. And if you didn't do it, let the Court of Auditors do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter on behalf of the proposer. Mr Jerovšek, you have no replicas because you were not mentioned. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you. I react to the rudeness and lies that Mr Jerovšek has said about the abuse of certain known names. I must say that when I became president of the Committee on Culture, I received four requests for membership in the Committee on Culture. One was from the first half of 2008 and the previous president of the Committee on Culture violated the Law on Public Interest in Culture because he did not address the topic in 60 days, which was education for artistic professions. This was then done by the Committee together with the Higher Education Committee in this mandate. We have also received a request for consideration of the book on the treatment of amateur culture and on 25 September 2008 a request for the inclusion of this item, which we are discussing today. On December 17th, when I attended those meetings at the invitation of the National Council and promised to defend these points, I also asked them to send material. The material sent by the National Council for Culture was published in the Rapporteur. You got it. And it is not my fault and there is no abuse if Mr Drago Jančar is a member of the National Council for Culture and if he is also in this building and if Mr Mitja Chandar represented this point on behalf of the National Council. Let's keep moving. After I promised to place all four points on the Committee on Culture on 17 December, and we did so, then, if you remember, that letter of work of the Programme Council happened in January and so on. However, those who misused someone to judge Members and Members of Parliament, viewers and viewers of television probably have their own opinions about television and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u107	Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u108	I just want to replicate briefly to the Minister, who tried to "input" me, that I spoke poorly about the National Council for Culture and its representatives. In particular, I highlighted three names in a positive sense, and I mentioned Jančar, Chandra, Wife of Leilek, who is performing here, and I especially commended them. And you're telling me that I wanted to insult them and evaluate them. True, they were aware of the black clouds of the Crassus storm at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister and distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Whenever the Minister answers, I listen to her with interest because I am increasingly inclined to see the need for the Court of Auditors to enter this house. Anytime he calls. And because he has information, if I only quote you, Madam Minister, I took it from a magnetogram, because it seemed very important to me and it was not an subjective position, not yours or mine, but the opinion of the BBC, which assessed the functioning of this public institution of RTV. What did they say? They said, quote: "...that it does not plan in the long term to misinterpret on two information programs, to demonstrate poor quality of performance, lack of editorial management, competition of the public agency with commercial television, that there is a fear of staff, fear of politics and of administration." External evaluators reportedly also resented the poor organisation of work and other processes in the house. That's the BBC's opinion. That's not SD's opinion. And please start discussing such opinions that are not politically colored and will probably find reasons for your anger or you will find yourself when you look through it. I also reviewed the material in detail on this subject, the independent auditor's report, and I concluded that it is insufficient, that it is only flat and from everything that I say that I do not repeat what you have said or said together in the National Assembly, that it is imperative to carry out the audit again, impartial and fair revision, and that we will not then argue in the National Assembly whether they are yours or ours, but through the revision we will have problems, positive, negative, and together we will try to resolve these problems. And we will set up a television where it belongs, that it will implement its programmes, and that it will carry out its mission. Someone earlier said that she would soon be outrun by some private television - on purpose I won't mention it because I don't want to do any commercials - which is often true too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we have heard from the right half of the National Assembly some interesting words - phoebe, desant, liquidation, criminalization. That's the only way those words came from this side. We've never heard such terms from this half. What does that mean? Sigmund Freud would probably [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u113	Mr Jerovšek, you always demand order when you speak for yourself. Allow others, too, and do not fall into the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u114	Sigmund Freud would probably find some reflection of your intimate temptations. I would also like to answer Mr Jerovšek's question. He asked about the position to mention at least one example of censorship on RTV. He's here! You can also go online and find it yourself. On 27 November 2006, the report presented the key point of the release of the entries, as presented at the press conference of the Peace Institute. This is a quoted letter from the Peace Institute, whose representative had a press conference and said something, and the editorial board wiped out the tone and provided other information, which was, of course, friendly to RTV. So they gave incorrect information, followed by a reaction. This was worse than censorship, this was misinformation and there are many more cases of this, Mr Jerovšek. I'm not even going to tell you about the veto of RTV's senior management on the employment of some cultural editor on koprah TV, due to political background; it wouldn't be delicious because it concerns a narrow acquaintance. We were talking today about the audit report and there is something to be said. I received this text at a committee meeting, directly from Mr Guze, he handed it to me, and there are also recordings of this. At that time, I received a text without a first page, which notes today that the audit on the accounting balance sheet was carried out in accordance with international standards. However, the same text, on the last page, states that those key issues agreed for the audit are distanced from the auditor and notes that this is neither an audit nor an investigation, and so on. We've already said a lot about this today. This dignity, this duality that arises in this story, speaks of the need to review the Court of Auditors, because these audits and these reports of the Supervisory Board give the impression that something is wrong, that something else needs to be verified. We do not condemn directly either leadership or the Governing Council, but we find that there is a great deal of inconsistencies, a lot of mistakes that occur. The answers to our observations are purely ideological. They're playing with fays, playing with liquidations. Excuse me, what are these arguments? Are you funny? We're talking facts. We've heard a lot of facts from the minister and read and please, gentlemen of the opposition, read a letter from the union. We are on the side of most RTV employees and employees, you are on the side of a handful of officials or leaders who manipulate this institution and can actually show positive balance sheets, but at the expense of workers, at the expense of employees and contract associates. That's what's going on. And all we want is a clean bill. We want the Court of Auditors to come and also, in cooperation with those directly affected, so, with workers and workers, trade unions, to find out what was right or wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I have to say, tragedy is worth it to be broadcast by television. We've just heard that TV is saving that it's being fed at the expense of workers and workers, that is, employees. As far as the data are concerned, and the data are accurate and reliable, there are also reports of RTV itself, they all received, all the years in force of the new law, 13 salaries and paid a profit tax because RTV Slovenia operated highly positive. This is the first lie you've told today. The second, which is even worse and has been repeating itself for months now, is how culture should be fed on television. What is the truth? In 2005, when a new law was enacted at the end of the year, 7 million and a quarter euros were allocated to the editorial of the cultural and artistic programme. In 2008, more than 12 million euros are allocated to TV Slovenia’s cultural and artistic programme, which means almost a 100% increase from the period for which you are crying, of course for other reasons. More importantly, 27% of the funds allocated to the cultural and artistic programme from all RTV Slovenia's assets amounted to 27%. From this 27% in 2005, it increased to no less than 32.4%. This is said to have dramatically increased the share for cultural and artistic content on RTV Slovenia. I only hope that these numbers, which are correct, credible and verified by the institutions, will also be published by all the media, both in the columns and also in your statements along with and then the government and coalition benches together will look like a school in the old Yugoslavia. Now what's even more interesting. Then, given that the obvious arguments speak strongly for the current leadership and the new legislation, let's just ask ourselves how many red leeches have been hanging on the streets of RTV Slovenia, that it has been in financial trouble all the time and has recently paid 13th wages and has been paying positive and drastically increasing funds for culture and the absolute share of the cultural programme. You know this is going to be clearer, but things need to be lighted up from another point of view. Today, the discussions by the transition left sounded like we had some kind of rabies epidemic in this Parliament. Why? Because he wants to go back to the mass of lies over the power of arguments, because he wants to do the aggression and personal insults we've been given and endlessly, I've been mentioned so many times today that I'm already wondering what the transition left would be doing if I wasn't there. I think they'd feel very lost. What do you conceal by this is that you have no argument or otherwise, that you are knowingly lying and that you know that all the arguments based on authentic documents are speaking against you. This is the truth of today's debate. And where exactly is the goal? Some have already indicated that it is an attempt to replace leadership. Well, it's that technology that your former great political leader revealed: first the discreditation, then the liquidation, if necessary the physical. It's nothing new. But we are in the show that this RTV Slovenia has just shown and I must say that it was extremely interesting because it illuminated one part that today's youth doesn't know how the former international socialists, together with national socialists, so communists and Nazis, walked under the hooky cross, hugged and it was very interesting and instructive. That something was still present today, we were able to see when the street was named after Titus in Ljubljana on Adolf Hitler's birthday, and all those who worship these two heads, the one and the same totalitarian snag, celebrated just the two people without whom they obviously cannot, at once. But to get back to the dark. You know, what was obvious from the words of the Minister at the introduction, but many did not then notice from many of your discussions that the current leadership is not a key objective. The current leadership will be collateral damage in your resurgence to RTV Slovenia. But there is something else: you are disturbed by direct transmissions and objective information. For he introduced the new law, which was why there was the greatest cry and cry. He raised some standards of journalistic ethics to the level of law. Among other things: respect for the principle of political independence and autonomy of journalists, and this binds both editors and journalists themselves. How much is this to do with the fact that, at the moment, part of that flovetber of Slovenian journalism, which claimed that the Presidency of Slovenia would pose a threat to the European Union as a whole, I am leaving your own judgment to the European Parliament. So what's this all about? The problem is that you don't have something in your hands yet, that there's another window somewhere through which people see something that really advocates, with some arguments, and in what way. If you want to start stealing, turn off the light and close the window. And so it is your great desire that these direct transfers be no longer. This was made more than crystal clear to Mrs Minister and you against the parliamentary programme today. If anyone thinks this claim is exaggerated that you're not telling the truth, the numbers testify. What you are saying about the malnutrition of culture, which was the basis of your debate, is a simple lie. And the old Slovenian proverb says, He that lieth is he that stealth. In fact, at this point you are stealing the future of my and your children and all our children, and you are witnessing the failures that your authority is causing because of its unprofessional management and ignorance when it comes to the further growth of the Slovenian economy or the challenges of the financial crisis. That's really what this is about. He wants to go back to his former condition. Some are apparently still crying today for the period when the former President of the political party headed by RTV Slovenia, namely two mandates [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u117	Mr Grims [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u118	and under the cover of civil society [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u119	Mr Grimes, just a moment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u120	Again. [[...]] I don't. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u121	Mr Grimes, just so you know, when you first mentioned people who aren't here, I didn't warn you. The second time you mention them, I'm warning you, and I'm asking you not to do this because I didn't stop you using harsh insults for us, for relations between us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u122	Because you did the same thing when everyone in your line talked about Mr. Guze, Mr. Možina, they spoke abusively. One even said that someone there was speaking in the leadership of the Argentine accent, which, of course, is a reflection of xenophobia and no one so far has been warned by you and not by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar. I was the only one who talked about not naming people who aren't here. And I didn't name anyone, but I said a function. And that disturbed you so much in your bias that you took my word for it right now. I hope people see that. To make it clear to them what kind of parody of democracy is taking place under the transition left, which brings us back to where we used to be. I was gonna say this. Personally, I do not condemn the one who took advantage of the opportunity and was at the head of RTV Slovenia, but it is a disgrace to all those political forces that have established legislation that has allowed to happen under the cover of civil society, not total, but a direct totalitarian takeover of some public institution by some political force and then "dear Borut" and "dear Tone" argue about who really controls it. Since they're both together today, at least it's clear what time it is. Of course, it's about going back, and that's why this civil society syntagma is coming back. But what this Slovenian civil society is, we will be able to speak more later when there is more time. For the time being, it's just obvious that people are trying to frame themselves for insulting them. I've experienced this on my own a number of occasions today. There have been many people who are not here, direct discredits, hints at their expense, at their unprofessionality, at their work in contravention of the law. At the same time, I would remind you that my proposal to suspend the meeting for a short period of time would extend the time allocated to RTV and allow these people to present their arguments, which they gave brilliantly at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. That is why you have also withdrawn in shame those two, obviously too false conclusions that you have proposed or formulated, as some of you have said, Madam Minister. But you didn't want to put it to the vote either, and it would be possible under the rules of procedure and it wouldn't be the first time. And that is, of course, what Mr Gantar knew and why he did not want to put it to the vote. And that's how I end up where I started. It is a simple fact, in recent years, as is the case with the new law, when the contribution was frozen and even less money, as those with the lowest income were exempt from paying RTV contributions, as we once promised. By the way, the two ladies who were the loudest today, they considered that the RTV Slovenia accounted for 20 million euros. Just a few months ago, you deceived the public harshly and spoke falsely when you spoke about the malnutrition of culture, the neglect of culture in the context of RTV Slovenia. The numbers here are inexcusable. Ladies and gentlemen, from 7 million and a quarter in 2005 the figures went to more than 12 million euros for RTV Slovenia's editorial and artistic programme and its share rose from 27% to 32.4%. In this light, of course, it is clear what this is about: first the discreditation, then the liquidation. But this law, which you all so attack, allows you to take full responsibility for RTV, if that's what you want. Wait until the mandates expire, and within the framework of the majority you have, you can name the authorities, as you think it is right, and take responsibility. But here is the essence of the story - you don't care about responsibility, you want to take over total authority, you get into the hands of RTV Slovenia, but you don't want to take responsibility. You want to hide behind civil society again. This is not only our phenomenon, it was also revealed by the legendary President of the German Constitutional Court, who said that through the so-called civil society RTV policy is empowered more than in any other way. And you're interested in power without responsibility. And this is a vital message from this session today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Since I have been interrupted in the presentation of the positions of the Slovenian National Party, I will now conclude with another idea on my behalf. It's about the programming content of the radio, because we haven't talked about it much, because we're only talking about television. In the last period following the adoption of the Statute on RTV, there is no longer any responsible editorial for music content. In particular, there is a decrease in quality on TV, as unqualified people decide on the speakers. At the head of all the programs, there were only press profiles. Journalists, however, can judge music content only as a lover and not as an expert. I still remember the times of the officialship of Dr. Urban Kodra and the Crown Cipcija, Sepeta and Janez Martinc on Radio. Today, we have only the responsible editors of the information and experimental program, the sports programme, and no more control over the music content. Therefore, there are also scandals at events such as Emma. Only those who cost nothing or seek promotion to perform in our space are performing in Mario’s show. Why not also perform artists who really mean something from all European countries, for example. Of course it's a cost. In radio programmes, there are largely too many voice contributions in the morning. For every contribution, we need an author, a technical team, etc. It has happened many times, and I do not know if the situation is any better, that a team from Maribor has arrived at the site of a sports event for reporting in their programmes, also from Kopra and especially from Ljubljana. So he's really too busy. Who would be in favor of all these phenomena in such a complex organization as RTV? Of course, there are many other things like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u125	Mr. Györek, I'm sorry, there was no more time. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Ivo Wiggle? [[No, no, ……]] Mirko Brultz? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Eva Irgle? [[No, no, ……]] Alan Bukovnik? [[No, no, ……]] Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u126	Good day, good morning. There is really no way that in today's debate we have the opportunity to listen to the word malnutrition, because most of us somehow do not see the nourished, the failures, the incompetence, the parody of democracy, the false conclusions, the abject conclusions. I can't believe it. I really can't believe it. I am a person who assesses matters only on the basis of facts, and I think that here the Minister is here in today's explanation, and also all the debaters who have tried to present the matter realistically have made clear enough what is going on, what should be done, and in what way, especially with only one thought, with a common objective of how to solve matters in a given situation. On the basis of the findings, even from all the material annexed, I also believe that it is likely that the Court of Auditors will need an opinion or revision of the Court of Auditors in order to determine whether the cases are being dealt with, but to a large extent they have already been established. I am also concerned about the fact that my colleague Mencinger discussed before, the lawsuit, the high amount of the Sazas lawsuit, and there are still a few open cases, but I could not possibly repeat them now. My proposal is, and I have no doubt here, that the distinguished Minister, the leadership of RTV, including members of the Supervisory Board, will not all find a solution for the benefit of all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who want to monitor such a programme, which will somehow be after all. At some point more than was said in the debate, perhaps more interested in culture, then someone interested in sports, a daily-information program, entertainment program and so on. I suggest that we do not humiliate ourselves, do not really insult extremes, especially I am sorry that somehow such insulting expressions are used by my colleagues, colleagues who otherwise have academic titles. I don't think it bothers someone with postgraduate education, with so much knowledge, that it uses a really low way of explaining and explaining some of the facts. I think we need to get things out here. I have no doubt that the Minister will not. Of course, with the right measure of reality and, as the Minister herself has mentioned, in which area she is a little bit more at home, but none of the ministers, I think she is not a Grandmaster or specialises in all the areas that the Minister must cover within his department. This is the area of expertise covered by the Ministry, but on the other hand there are also finances and so on. That is why there are people within the Ministry, experts who I believe are involved and helpful in this matter. Therefore, in the Republic of Slovenia, it is the Court of Auditors to judge these matters professionally, to judge them and to write that down, but not to insult each other here. I do not think this is the intention, nor is it the purpose of today's debate. However, if any matters and findings relating to the programme have already been examined and identified by the Minister, it is a pity that any of them would have been able to cover their eyes or to escape certain specific facts during these months of their term of office. Therefore, the distinguished Minister and others, the representatives of RTV, all those who want RTV Slovenia to continue to work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, have our full support to carry out matters in the way they need to, to the benefit of certain irreconcilities, shortcomings or perhaps even certain business decisions that have not been considered in the past, or because of any circumstances that we may not have known or personally do not know, have been made differently. I hope that they have not considered a political decision at any given time and that perhaps everything that has happened has also been done on this basis. However, I think that even within the framework of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, whose president is Mrs Mag. Majda Pótt, there is effort and a desire to get things right. Therefore, I also think that you are none of the committee presidents in any way wants to be presented here in a bad light. If facts and circumstances are necessary to make them clear, they can be said, but in such a way that people, experts, knowers of the fields, are not offended. Therefore, I propose that, in this direction and also in this debate today, we apply the utmost degree of correctness, of course of expertise, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u128	I said in the debate today that, of course, I support the conclusions you have proposed to make sense to us. But frankly, that's not enough. Frankly, I believe that the Court of Auditors will review consistency, question or thoughtfulness if it can also review and reflect on decisions that I personally consider have not been considered. I may not be financially subdued, subject to financial, economic and so on, but the media, and especially RTV Slovenia, I love. And because of that, it seems to me that everything that a lot of people don't put in to make a change is necessary. For this reason, I also think it is wrong that this, let's say love, affection, or respect, or the possibility that this society has, that it has public television, turns into a political lynching or it understands as a political lynching. Far from it. I would like not to remain a bad taste here in this debate, when it has been said that, however, the findings of the National Council for Culture and later some Members, how it is nourished and how inappropriate it is to see that that field of public discourse, called culture, education, which is called the dissemination of some of the content which, by law, has the duty to carry out only RTV Slovenia, is significantly better than in the past. The statements are different. In the statutes or in the amendments there has been a movement of some content into another cultural and artistic production unit, which seems to be more. I've already warned you once today, and the income and expenditure statements can be read so and so on if you put in the mass of revenue what is another income is, as we said, silver. And then it looks like we're doing a good job. Indeed, since 2004 when there has been no change in the RTV contribution, which until recently, as I say, has been frozen, the revenues of RTV Slovenia have shown a drop of EUR 16 million of EUR 357,000 in the expected revenue. And that's a big sum. Because of this sum, I will say, we are taxed unfortunately and not with joy, and not with populism, viewers and viewers, residents who are connected to the electric current, as the only model and way that these revenues are even found on RTV. We know that they are not in the past because these problems with the checkers were so great. It wasn't that big. And the so-called Grimes Act brought this solution to the social risk of being acquitted of this payment. This outburst was not as great as it was today. It was, say, between 2005 and 2008, 172 000 euros. Okay, I think this sum is going to get bigger because it's getting more and more socially threatened. If I finish. However such a discussion in the National Assembly may move at the border of taste, criteria or standards, it is necessary. Not because, as has been said, of any political lynching, not because of the installations, after all, you have the plants in your hands, not the government, in the changes you attribute to the Government, changes in the human resources field. It is important that this discussion, however, provokes some change in thinking. I'm sure this one is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat as SD Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There was a lot to be heard, but let me also explain as a Member of the Social Democrats how the committee debate was actually going on. The proposer of the sub-financiality point and the contractor of the material was the National Council for Culture, which received the word, and was invited to lead RTV. The drafter of the Point of the RTV Supervisory Board report was the Supervisory Board, and RTV management was also invited. At the same time, RTV has once again been given the opportunity to discuss the issue in the context of the point of action as to how RTV contributions will be used up. Well, on three different occasions. It is so misleading to say that the leadership of RTV could not convey its views and views and object to our statements, I think, to the statements of Members and Members. Whoever read the material of the National Council, March and that of the second June session, saw that the debate on the National Council was not "unisono". That there was a conflict of views. But one thing can be said, concern about the representation of cultural content on RTV has grown from all. In the National Assembly, when we talk about the media, too often we think only about the representation of news and political content, but not all the other content that the public service has to bring. And let me tell you from a survey involving 1,281 respondents. These were students of three public universities in Slovenia, namely students and first-year students, and I quote that the media content that attracts the most attention is: internal policy 35%, sport 34%, science and technology 30%, foreign policy 27%, local news 26%, culture, art 22%. I didn't say a dozen percent. And if you continue to look at the content of the same surveyed population that is the most lacking in the media, talking about electronic media, these are: science and technology 33%, culture, art 27%, environment, ecology 25%, scientific advice 21%, social affairs 20% and something small, another less than 20%. Why am I talking about this? Because we ask ourselves too often whether our personal taste or belief is not the only criterion we want to see as a criterion of ratings, the measure of importance of certain content. And I agree with all those who, at the five-hour meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, discussed the need to define, reflect carefully and discuss what is the public interest that public RTV must pursue. Is watching programs really the only saving criterion? Since we have already talked about some others, let me now end by quoting only two other editors from RTV Slovenia who have thought about the poorer representation of cultural content. Jani Virk said, among other things: "This television was like a cultural institution, like an institution that protects a certain and develops a national identity, already much more complex, untapped, growing genres that we can no longer cultivate at all. This public television is currently, at least as far as culture is concerned, but we can now say that it still has a relatively high share in its programmes, and I will try to explain it a little bit later, very quickly, this function, once performed by a public agency, is no longer being performed." No pressure on anyone Jani Virk said. And to quote another editor, Milana Girl. And he said, "I'm very happy to be able to speak here because I rarely have the opportunity to express my conviction." That's how he started his performance when he talked about cultural content. And then he said, "At the moment we started competing with commercial televisions, we made one strategic mistake. We left or doubted our own knowledge, our own minds and our ability to create some of our own television formats "and" so on. [[...]] You could still read it. But if you'll excuse me, that's all. So it happened to us in this game with commercial televisions that we lost a vision of what the public television company Slovenia means and I think that this debate really needs to be brought back to Parliament and this vision developed again." So much for who put pressure on whom and what someone wanted to achieve by discussing cultural content on public RTV. At the end of this debate, I think it should be stressed that we can always look at things that way, whether half a glass is empty or half a glass full. It seems to me that, given the function I attach to the public service of RTV, it is important that we discuss these content. Unfortunately, I must say, the conversation has often slipped or drifted significantly to other places, and I don't know if when people are reading magnetograms, they will understand that we have actually opened this subject up to warn us how it can already be that the financial result of the operation of RTV is good, but also the state of the spirit and the state of representation of content in the public interest is really what we would like, but there is another question. Again, one is statistics and one is percentages, and the other is quality. And I don't even hope to draw attention to this question, because then it might be sooner that we enter a field in which politics must not enter. I sincerely thank all those who have responded to this point with readiness and substantive discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, Madam Minister? Thank you very much. Ms. Proposer, mag. Maja Potter? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u132	Given that the time during which the debate was to be held at the National Assembly was intended to be such as to discuss this before the adoption of the balance and the law on the implementation of the budget, it was necessary to amend the proposed decision, so Members and Members were asked to support the amendment to this Decision. For he speaks in the spirit of what we have spoken. It follows in the first part that we propose to the National Assembly to support the decisions proposed by the National Council for Culture and, in the second part, to ensure that funds or funds are properly spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I conclude with a debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal for a decision and the amendment tabled. It's already started. Majda Potter. Do they want to discuss a proposal for a decision with an amendment that is tabled by someone? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I also interrupt this agenda item. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at 22.05. I'm going to 1 3. PERFORMANCE OF THE PROBLEMS OF THE APPROACH OF EUROPEAN RESOURCES UNDER THE REPORT OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE FINAL ACCOUNTS OF THE STATE BUDGET. The material was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. To Andre Visiak to complement the explanation of the material. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u134	Dear Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for the supervision of public finances has addressed an important issue, which is very much linked to the Court of Auditors' audit report, not only with this document, but also with the politicisation and fraud of drawing on the European funds we have witnessed in the past. The Commission has dealt with a number of issues on this subject. The first issue was the effectiveness of drawing on European funds, both financial perspectives 2004-2006 and financial perspectives 2007-2013, then with the Court of Auditors' findings and observations, then with possible changes in the institutional structure in drawing on European funds and how to continue to draw on European funds. The Commission's findings are summarised in conclusions slightly different from those adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy when addressing the same issue. The data show that European funds have been used effectively and effectively, as regards the European Regional Development Fund for the financial perspective 2004-2006, that an effective system has been put in place to make use of all the funds from the Social Fund for the same financial perspective and cohesion policy funds have been put in place on the assumption and basis that these funds can be absorbed within a given deadline. That is why we have also discussed many of the proposals and the wishes and forecasts of the current government on the Commission to change the institutional framework in order to change the way and structure of drawing in the middle of the implementation of a financial perspective, this is the new financial perspective 2007-2013. We have recommended such an approach, and this is also covered by the conclusions of the Commission. We also discussed the absorption of funds for the current financial perspective 2007-2013 and, in fact, we went through all the operational programmes, including the resources presented, and we were in the position that, given the 3.6-fold increase in the amount of resources available to Slovenia in this financial perspective, the start of the financial perspective is promising, but that we did not manage to draw up all the announced funds in the first year of the financial perspective 2007 because operational programmes and also some of the drawback bases were adopted mainly due to long-term negotiations with the European Commission only towards the end of 2007. However, these projects have run out and data on the use of funds are good and encouraging on the dates that we discussed, especially at the end of last year, 31.12.2008. The Commission has called on the Government to do everything in its power to accelerate the absorption of European funds in the future. Therefore, we were somewhat disappointed with the balance sheet data when we realized that it was not going in this direction, that is to say that it was not accelerating the use of European funds, but rather the provision of less European funds. In fact, we are even more afraid of what will happen with the next change in the balance or with the rebalance of the balance, where the picture is likely to be even worse. The Commission also considers that the Court of Auditors’ recommendations should be taken into account in the direction of a more efficient structure of procedures, that calls for simplification, that controls should be adapted to the effective implementation of controls, that this should not be duplicated, and that there is also a need for greater cooperation between the authorities involved in drawing on European funds. The Commission will be very interested in drawing on whether these activities are at least as effective as they have been so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Ms Meta Vese Valentinčič, State Secretary at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! If we look at the issue of drawing on European funds, which also stems from the Court of Auditors' report, we would state the following. The Court of Auditors has found that the scope of the European budget in the final account is not sufficiently transparent and that the final account does not provide sufficient short, clear and comprehensive information to enable the National Assembly and the public to provide a comprehensive review of the use of European funds. We're talking about 2007 of course. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors has determined in its verification that the final accounts of the State budget for this year show the funds received and the payments made to the European Union's budget and that the expenditure of the appropriations is reflected and dispersed within the implementation of the budget of the individual direct budgetary users. In addition to this, the Court of Auditors concluded that all payments received by the State budget from the European budget are not immediately recorded as the revenue of the State budget, but are first referred to the specific dedicated sub-accounts under the Single Treasury Account of the State or the Bank of Slovenia. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors notes that these sub-accounts are large, as well as the custodians of these sub-accounts, it would be necessary to ensure systematic monitoring of all the funds received. The monitoring of EU funds should also take account of the fact that the European Commission pays part of the funds directly to beneficiaries in the Republic of Slovenia outside the national budget. The Ministry of Finance was charged with preparing a response report, where the Ministry would show a plan of action to establish a standard reporting format that would address the financial flows of European funds and the drawdown situation in a comprehensive manner, this standard format would also be an integral part of the explanation of the final accounts or a separate report which would be submitted as such for consideration and confirmation by the National Assembly. The response report was prepared by the Ministry of Finance. As can be seen from the later finding, the Court of Auditors considered this response report to be credible and satisfactory. If I give you a few arguments from the Ministry of Finance in the response report. The Court of Auditors has been committed by the Ministry of Finance to draw up a standard report as required, namely on all inflows from the European budget to the State budget and on dedicated sub-accounts in a given year, on the rights of expenditure acquired by individual programmes and funds in the current year, cumulatively also for the entire programming period, on the planned and realised revenue of the budget for each programme period, on the planned and realised expenditure, on the EU earmarked items, on individual programmes and on a coherent basis during the current year and, of course, on a cumulative basis for the entire programming period. Of course also on the loss of funds due to financial corrections or rules n+2 and n+3. In connection with the requirement for this standard report, let me say that the EU Ministry of Finance has already collected data for those funds through the national budget, and it is always possible to obtain or have access to these funds. In order to obtain all the information that will enable reporting in accordance with the Court of Auditors’ request, it is necessary to provide the relevant legal basis first. This will have to be done by amending public financial legislation in order to provide a legal basis. Let me finish. As has been imposed on the Ministry of Finance, what I have read and what you have accepted as appropriate and satisfactory in the response report has also received some guidance from the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. However, it was essential to establish an information system, since, at that time, this information system could not be used or worked on in 2007. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u137	Madam Secretary of State [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u138	It's working now. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u139	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good day or good evening, after Primorsko. The Group of Social Democrats is in no way satisfied that we are talking about this point today. Not because of what some people think here on the right side of the Parliamentary Chamber, but mainly because it is a total waste of time, because we have already found that in the previous mandate it was very bad to draw on European funds, that fortunately, the principle n+2 has been adopted in the European Union a long time ago. The former government should also have a principle of N plus four, since not all the funds available for the period 2004 - 2006 were able to be absorbed. Then, of course, we find out how successful we have been in drawing-out planning for the period 2007-2013, and we only mention how much we have exceeded or reached the expected draw-out levels for the individual years 2007 and 2008. But how much we actually pumped back then, of course, that doesn't matter. It's a piece of information that's not being talked about. This will be said after we fully point our finger at another government in the period 2007-2013. As far as we are concerned that less than a quarter of the funds were absorbed in the period 2007-2013, for the period 2007, 2008 was well below a quarter, about 14% of all the funds envisaged, I think enough is said. It is good that we have a very large and large share of agriculture in Slovenia, and that is why we have a large share of the European Union's funding to subsidise and support the development of agriculture in Slovenia. Good thing we have our farmers. If we didn't have them, we'd actually have to sink under the ground from shame. For this reason, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that 6 hours is too long, because we have already spent six hours on the same subject and, of course, there is now a senseless healing of the wounds of some people who have failed in the past four years to do what has been imposed on them and of what they have sworn here also in this Chamber. I think it's really pointless to waste time here. Since our rules of procedure are such, we will also remove it, we will participate in the debate, but of course, such conclusions as the Commission has proposed for the supervision of public finances, where it is logical that those who heal their wounds have a majority in it and can also take advantage of this majority. Let them be, and we'll hear what they tell us in their lamentations. In any way, we will not support such conclusions in the vast majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u142	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If there was not enough N + 2 for the previous government and it should be N + 4, neither N + 20 will be enough for the present. Allow me to say a few words about the procedure first. At its 3rd meeting, on 4 March this year, the National Assembly discussed the report of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development concerning the consideration of the Court of Auditors' report on the drawing-up of European funds in 2007. At that time, the Commission's report on the supervision of public finances on this matter, which we are dealing with only today, was not included on the agenda, despite the fact that the Commission for the supervision of public finances is competent to deal with the Court of Auditors' reports, despite the fact that the first hearing of this report began on 12 January this year at the request of the Zares, SD, LDS and DeSUS coalition groups. This is why we are discussing the same subject again today, not because of our guilt, but because of inadequate work and inadequate and inappropriate decisions by the ruling coalition, which we are not only witnessing in the National Assembly, but also at other levels. It's about content. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the two findings on the use of European funds are essential. These conclusions are also based on the conclusions of the Commission, which we fully support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. First time. It follows from the Court of Auditors' report that the Republic of Slovenia was a net recipient of European funds in 2007. This fact is recorded in the Court of Auditors’ report of the European Union in the final accounts of the State budget on page 29, where we also have a very nice and transparent chart where it reads: "Figure 10 shows that the net position of the Republic of Slovenia without recipients outside the State budget and the net position of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole has been positive. The Republic of Slovenia, as a whole, received more than €31 million from the European budget than it was paid for in 2007. This fact, my fellow Members and colleagues, is once again highlighted by the fact that we are in the debate on 4.3.2009, and I believe that today will be the same, we will listen to the flooding of how the Republic of Slovenia was a net contributor to the European budget in 2007. The Court of Auditors has clearly found that it was not. Second message. The drawback was lower than the 2007 budget. That is certainly true. It should be stressed, however, that Slovenia has not lost or missed anything. More. In view of the fact that we are talking about a timeline that is due to expire in 2013 and 2016, these funds now available and to be fully exploited by 2016 represent a large stock or potential available by the Pahor government to accelerate economic growth or represent a significant potential for recovery from this crisis. And it, not the opposition, depends on it or will be able to exploit it. We are talking about four billion euros or a comparison, we are talking about a threefold deficit created by the Pahor government this year. Nevertheless, it is necessary to say why the funds were not used as planned in 2007. I think the answer to this question has been addressed several times and allow me to summarize it only in the essential elements that are the simplest and most clear. The year 2007 was the year of the new financial perspective, the first year of the new financial perspective. The administrative procedures underlying the publication of calls for proposals for the use of these funds were definitively completed on 21 November 2007, when the operational programme for the development of human resources was last approved. And only when these programmes are confirmed can administrative procedures, i.e. calls be launched. However, we can find out, and this is based on the material, that in the area of strengthening regional development potentials, €678 million or 112.6% have been shown in relation to spending rights in 2007, 2008 for 205 million euros or 83% of the operational programme for human resources development, in relation to spending rights in 2007, 2008, and for the environmental and transport infrastructure development programme €157 million or 63.5% in relation to spending rights in 2007, 2008. Together, therefore, in this first deployment period or in the first year, EUR 200 million was distributed from the good 4 billion available to us by 2013 and 2016. Of course, the liquidity use of these funds, as reported by the Court of Auditors, was significantly lower, as it is the funds that are being paid on the basis of project implementation or back-up or not. Let me have a word with you about project administration. Here we agree that things need to be improved and we do not have different opinions on this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt, therefore, that in this financial perspective, which was negotiated by the Janša government in December 2005 under the English Presidency, Slovenia has a historical sum of more than 4 times as much as in the previous financial perspective. The question raised at today’s hearing is: Will the new Pahor government be able to make the best and effective use of these funds? To date, activities and conduct do not give us optimism. And that's not what I'm saying, go to the street, go to businesses, go to the congregations, and those who are expecting calls for action and action to carry out the projects that are ready and waiting for these processes. The amendment proposed by the ruling coalition for the first and fourth decisions suggests that only these two decisions will be adopted, and not the rest. It is clear that the second and third decisions, which take into account these facts, will not be adopted, the facts which speak of the good work of the previous government in this area. Apparently, the ruling coalition is still unable to admit the verifiable facts - what has been found in the official reports - when all the data is available today. It's like she's afraid of it, instead of doing everything she can to be even worse and even more effective than the previous government. Especially because in these ways the current opposition stands by her side and wants to help her. We're approaching the first half of the summer. During this period, when, given the recession, there should be even more evidence of a number of calls for the use of European funds in all areas, at all levels - the government is dead. Many of the projects we see in the implementation across Slovenia are due to the activities of the Janša government in last year and past years. The problem, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore not the activities of the previous government, is the inactiveness of the current government. Anything new, anything fresh? Everybody's waiting. The municipalities are waiting. There's no telling when there's gonna be a call. It's all open. With all the foundations created, nothing needs to be negotiated on the European Commission, it is only necessary to start working and create the basis for investment. Now so much more than when economic activity was high, and the Commission draws attention to this with its conclusions. It is about investing in railways, motorways, broadband networks, energy projects, renewable energy sources. In short, for investments in areas that are ours - as we speak or as you now speak - since you have been in power - development potential and which represent an important contribution to increasing economic growth. It is also a matter of investment in areas where Slovenia is malnourished and where it will have to, if it is to move faster in the coming years, substantially accelerate investment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the Commission's proposed conclusions on the supervision of public finances, and we suggest that you start working and take advantage of the favourable opportunities left by the Janša government. Let me repeat, the Court of Auditors' report shows that Slovenia was a net recipient of European funds in 2007. The big question is whether this will be the case this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the service, colleagues and colleagues! The issue of drawing on European funds on the basis of the Court of Auditors' published report is the second time in the National Assembly, which, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, is at least extremely unusual, regardless of how some interpret their rules of procedure. This topic was discussed on 4 March. We think it's simply pointless that we keep saying one thing and the same thing for hours and hours just so that someone can do their will and the same as at last year's closing account proves that everything in the past was in the best order. On the subject of drawing on European funds, we simply want to present ourselves with the constant resurgence of this debate, that it was ideal that during the government of Janez Janša everything was O. K. and that we have, within the framework of the new government, a wonderful journey, how we can only continue this work. As we discussed it in March, we found that it is not so far off and that it is a whole species of strangeness. And what may have been really different since then is that the situation is in fact significantly worse than we thought in March, and every day new and new things are being discovered, new mistakes, incorrect contracts that cannot be realised and similar. And this thing is already ridiculous. Obviously there will be no peace first, and we will have an uninterrupted session until the only saving truth that the SDS wants to implement is legalized or adopted and backed up by conclusions. Since this meeting, nothing new has happened, which would justify our re-decision on this subject and that we have taken different decisions than the National Assembly has already adopted. It is only and only to talk about it and to waste time and to wonder at those who are surprised at it, but they themselves are the initiators of these discussions. Let's go in one order. At its first meeting, on 22 January and two further meetings, on 4 and 11 February, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development took note of the information or material provided by the Government’s Local Self-Government Service, which was entitled drawing on the European funds it had prepared in January 2009. The reason for the debate on the issue of European funds drawback and the inclusion of this issue in the plenary session of the National Assembly is the Court of Auditors audit report on EU funds, the 2007 State Budget Final Account, with which the Court of Auditors wanted to answer the only question on the transparency of the display, on the funds received and paid in the European budget. In the report, the Court of Auditors found that the European budget for 2007 had exceeded the European budget's funds of €8.7 million. The next conclusion is the inadequate planning of European funds, as the European Commission has also pointed out. According to its assessment, the 2007 forecast error was 101% and is the largest among the Member States. Likewise, the Republic of Slovenia does not have adequately regulated systematic and comprehensive monitoring of inflows and outflows to the European budget and comprehensive information on the European funds used to assess the state and management of policies and possible measures. All of this is confirmed by the new audit report, which saw the light of the Council on 17 April, which checked the payments of European funds and clearly found that the management of the checks was not effectively organised. A number of measures have been taken to resolve this. We can only think of how many mistakes have been made in the past on the basis of finding that there are no uniform standards and procedures for checking payments that, in fact, it is not possible to ensure the legitimate purpose and economic use of resources and so on. That the funds are not defined in the manner and content and that the documentation procedure is not appropriate. This is all written in this report and only proves how badly we have this matter handled in Slovenia. In reviewing the 2007 final budget account, the Court of Auditors found that, while the funds paid into the European budget and the funds received are visible, their consumption is opaque as they are dispersed within direct budgetary users. As it is said, 356 million or 23% more than the previous year were paid into the European budget in 2007 and 347 million euros were received in absolute terms less than in 2006. Thus, in 2007, the funds paid for, I repeat, EUR 8.7 million exceeded the inflows from the European budget to the state budget. We are therefore clearly talking about the negative position of the state budget in relation to the European budget. Furthermore, it was found that only 6% of the planned revenue from the European budget was realised in 2007 and this is a major problem. Of the 582 million planned, only EUR 347 million was realized. Within this, a particularly poor realisation was found in the area of structural funds, which did not exceed 25% of the planned level. Unfortunately, the situation in 2008 is even worse since the drop amounts to EUR 420 million than planned. The net position of the state budget is minus EUR 64 million. In doing so, the figures of the state budget's final account do not provide a comprehensive response to the net situation of our country. As a result, the Court of Auditors calculated two additional net positions of the Republic of Slovenia with the help of data from the European Commission, a net position without revenue outside the State budget, which was positive in the year in question, plus 6.5 million, and the net position of Slovenia as a whole, which was also positive and amounted to 31.3 million. In 2007, the first year of the new financial perspective, when it was possible to draw funds from both programming periods, from 2004-2006 and from 2007-2013, but the funds received were not presented separately in the final account. Therefore, the apparent realization in these two programming periods is not directly apparent. The fact is that in 2007 there were only 8% of the new financial perspective. All together, we can claim that, according to the Court of Auditors, the final state budget account does not provide adequate information on all payments received to the Republic of Slovenia, including those paid directly by the European Commission to our beneficiaries. In addition to the Court of Auditors' report on the issue of drawing, the Government also submitted a report on drawing up European funds and responded to the written request of the members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances requiring the submission of data on European funds and the chronology of all necessary activities on the preparation of projects and the absorption of the funds of the Structural Funds itself for the financial period 2004-2006 as well as 2007-2013. To a large extent, government materials arising from the previous mandate are not adequately processed and do not answer certain questions: questions about the reasons for poor pumping, for poor planning, on the coherence between approved projects and existing regional development programmes, on the feasibility of projects, on the usefulness, effectiveness and so on. Perhaps we will receive some of these answers today. In the previous plenary debate, it was concluded that the aim of the successful use of European funds should be exclusively to achieve more coherent regional development rather than to favour individual lobbyist groups. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really believe that it is necessary to answer at least the above-mentioned questions in order to effectively draw on European funds, including by the Government, which we have committed to by adopting decisions at the 3rd ordinary meeting of the National Assembly. That's why I repeat. Today's debate is just an attempt to cloud and cover up the full responsibility for the situation, as the proposed conclusions clearly show. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposed amendments in the hope that all this farce will finally be brought to an end in addressing the issue of European funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u146	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members and Members! Of course, sometimes you have to walk a little by the municipalities in Slovenia. Dear fellow Member, the picture will be clearer to you as to how the funds were drawn in 2007 and 2008. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we support the proposals adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances on the issue of European funds drawback. In particular, we think it makes sense that the National Assembly calls on the Government to make European funds as effective as possible and to continue at least with the dynamics achieved in the first two years of the 2007-2013 financial perspective. We also expect in our parliamentary group to increase the dynamics of European spending, mainly in operational programmes for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, as one of the measures in the light of the promotion of economic growth. These are projects such as the development of an optical network, modernisation of the rail network, energy projects, highway programmes, sewerage systems and the like. In the DeSUS Group, we also expect that the Government will ensure the proper recording, planning and content of projects in order to continue to draw on European funds. For our Group of Members, it is extremely important that we look forward to these discussions on drawing on European funds. We are all aware that the problem of drawing on European funds is already beginning in calls for proposals themselves, as they are not published in time. This hinders the preparation of appropriate and quality projects for the call for proposals. As has been pointed out and highlighted several times, administrative procedures themselves are complicated and often misunderstood, which is an additional obstacle to the successful use of European funds. In our Group of Members, we would like to analyse the reasons for the failure of calls for proposals, which would give potential applicants and callers some guidance on how to prepare and how to apply for a specific call for proposals so that this application can be successful. According to our assessment, the problem also arises in connection with financial flows, more precisely by providing its own share, which often hampers the liquidity of the applicant, i.e. municipalities. Waiting for a refund is often very painful and long-lasting, which further exacerbates the situation. The percentage of participation is usually very high and some municipalities or other potential applicants cannot mate because they do not have enough resources to ensure their share, sometimes 50% or 60%. Finally, I would like to highlight another point: the importance of evalating the impact of investing in the tender. This will provide us with appropriate guidance on where to invest, on which points the deposit country gets refunded, allowing for the further successful development of our country. In the DeSUS Group, we also support the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will postpone the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the same denominator, it is sometimes not easy to get positions within a homogeneous parliamentary group such as the Slovenian National Party's Group, but somehow we have managed to reach some common conclusions. We will support the proposed decisions in the Slovenian National Party. In particular, we highlight points 4 and 5 of the conclusions, where we support the amendment to the 4th Decision, which is more binding and concrete than the original decision, means that the National Assembly proposes to the Government to prepare measures that will make it possible to draw more effectively on EU funds. Such a dictatorship has already been proposed by the SNS twice on the parent’s working body. However, in point 5, it is important for the Government to ensure recording, planning, and yet the most important element is missing, according to the Slovenian National Party, of supervision. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I am asking or expressing doubts about the following. On 19.3.2009 the European Commission adopted a decision stipulating that Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Greece, Italy and Slovenia should reimburse a total of EUR 126.7 million of EU agricultural expenditure which they had unduly spent. The reason for the return of money to the budget of the European Community is the lack of compliance with EU rules or the inadequacy of control procedures over agricultural expenditure. In view of the shortcomings in the control of payments for surface aid, Slovenia has to return around €1.5 million, the Member States are responsible for the payment and verification of the expenditure of the CAP common agricultural policy and the European Commission must ensure that the funds are spent properly by the Member States. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will settle an amount of €1.5 million from the State budget without investigating and taking action against the responsible. Thus, again, and in many other cases of rule-making and inaction of the competent institutions, all taxpayers will be fined financially. Due to the lack of supervision and the level of consumption or the uncontrolled implementation of spending, we are currently discussing the proposed conclusions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read at least a few views or statements from the President of the Court of Auditors on this occasion. At the beginning of 2008, different information emerged as to whether Slovenia is a net payer or a net payee from the European budget in 2007 and how this actual situation coincides with the financial evaluation of the expectations at the end of the financial negotiations for the period 2007-2013 of December 2005. From the country's 2007 budget itself, the funds received and the payments made to the European budget are thus visible. However, the use of these funds is dispersed within the implementation of the budget of individual direct budgetary users. According to the final accounts of the State budget for 2007, only slightly less than 60% of the planned revenue was realised in the national budget. However, no institution shall be responsible for the systematic monitoring of all funds received. In addition, the European Commission also pays part of the funds directly to the beneficiary in the Republic of Slovenia outside the national budget. In 2007, it was planned to register the state budget for EUR 582 million received from the EU. In fact, only EUR 347 million was realised. The worst reality has been demonstrated in the funds received from the Structural Funds. The Court of Auditors found that such a low realisation in the area of structural funds is not only due to the dynamics of drawing, but also to inadequate planning based on unrealistic assumptions. For a total of 38% or around €90 million of planned revenue there were no conditions for them to be created at all. And that. Since there is no institution in the Republic of Slovenia that fully covers the flows from the European budget, the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance have ordered that procedures be put in place to prepare a standard reporting format that will address the financial flows of European funds and draw-out situations in a comprehensive manner, with a number of recommendations which would allow for a more transparent presentation of the European budget funds, including in order to avoid different interpretations and interpretations of the so-called net position of the Republic of Slovenia. The financing of certain projects through EU funding is, in principle, three-partite: EU funds, state resources and the share directly contributed by the user, for example, by the local community. Until now, there have been many short contacts. Call for projects was submitted too late, with too little time difference for EU users to produce projects. In the event that the projects were made by accident, it was in many cases surprising that the country did not have its share guaranteed. And there was an irregularity, a lack of funds, and even monitoring of projects in progress, in order that they would not run well, that the country should not have to participate in its share. Yeah, well, that's what's been going on. That's why we need control. And what exactly is in control? For the system itself is well set up, the money is available enough, but without control of course it is not expected to be implemented as effectively as it is intended. It is said that not monitoring implementation, but mainly calls for projects financed by the EU, calls issued by the State to be published in due time and that a share of the country and the monitoring of decisions on beneficiaries of these funds will also be planned. Part of this can be achieved by respecting the decisions adopted, supplemented by the amendments tabled. It is true, however, that the controls mentioned above are not binding even through the conclusions. And that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members! Since the takeover of the current government and coalition, we have been listening to political, depressing, populist and, above all, to the unrealistic and irresponsible statements of the ruling coalition on the inefficient use of funds. Ministers took note of the causes of poor pumping and what needed to be done in order to improve, after the government's working consultation at the end of January, Finance Minister Dr. Križanič said. One of the Members said in December 2008, at the request of a coalition to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, that it was indeed a shame that we were not able to draw on the planned funds. And that's how you could count it. Now, let us look at Mrs Danuta Hübnereva's statement by European Commissioner for Regional Policy at the meeting with Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Zlata Plösteiner of 9 March 2009, which is a good month ago. Among other things, the Commissioner said: "Prepayments are money coming from the budget of the European Union and there is no reason not to consider it as money transferred to the Slovenian budget. If we take into account advance payments, then you're not a net payer. If we don't take that into account, there's something wrong with perception. There's nothing we can criticize." Interesting. The Commissioner once again praised Slovenia for its very good use of European funds. In 2008, Slovenia tendered for 35% of the total money and allocated specific projects worth €560 million, after we have drawn funds from the best Member States of the European Union. Let me not forget that this is the result of the previous government coalition with Minister Ivan Žagar at the head of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, and by no means the current one would have thought of it by chance. Yes, honourable Members, there is obviously something very wrong in this country. The government deceives, speaks the untruth and wastes unnecessary unrest between citizens and citizens, rather than acting responsibly and calmly, rather than using the vocabulary and methods used by the opposition in its role and position. At this point, however, the government is arguing and the opposition is looking for a way out of the crisis. Let's take a look at some facts. The Court of Auditors in its special report on European Union funds in the final accounts notes that only a little less than 60% of the planned revenue has been realised from European funds. This information should be of concern to us if it reflects the actual situation. In our opinion, no. The only relevant period for assessing the effectiveness of European funds drawback is a period covering the entire programming period, rather than data on the use of funds within each financial year. Some other members of the European Union have also come together on this issue. By data at 31. 12. For the 2006-2008 programming period, Slovenia has fully absorbed funds at the level of the Structural Funds. However, the use of cohesion funds is close to the maximum and the drawdown is still under way as the funds need to be spent by the end of 2010. Data for the 2007-2013 programming period also show that already €1.5 billion of the total 4.1 billion available for the whole period has been awarded or certified. This is all the result of the work of the previous government coalition and the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Dr. Ivan Žagar. At all given that in 2004 the draw system had to be driven from scratch, i.e. from the beginning. Even if we look at the tables showing progress in drawing on operational programmes and months, we see that there is no progress since the Government's replacement. After six months of running the new government coalition, the situation on all operational drawout programmes remains the same as left by the previous government coalition. Despite the big words, there is no progress. We wonder what the current ones are doing, that the situation is what it is. Let's see what the government is doing. Following calls from members of the coalition and on the basis of the Government's conclusions, an institutional system for drawing up European funds is being analysed and proposals for possible improvement are being prepared and so on. The Office of the Government for Regional Development is setting up a coordination group at the level of State secretaries, which will focus on the proper implementation of the objectives and solutions in the search for synergies and simplifications and so on. The Government has adopted ten decisions in which, in its own words, it has taken a firm commitment to move to the publication of additional calls as soon as possible." I'd say, bravo, Vlada! It only took you six months to realise that further work should be undertaken and new calls for proposals published. Unfortunately, despite this finding, you spend most of your time working with yourself, preparing analyses, establishing a number of coordination groups, hiring external advisers and so on. On the contrary, according to our information, you even stop and withdraw programs that have already been approved. Your Honor, you haven't done anything in six months. There are no new calls, big projects are questionable. The municipalities that have already been granted 450 projects amounting to EUR 300 million, which is estimated to amount to about 10,000 new jobs, are calling for them to move away from projects, from projects that, in a given financial and economic situation, can generate employment for people across Slovenia instead of trying to divert most of the funds to a local level and thus redirect the worrying flow of unemployment and recession. The Minister points out the importance of informing the public and predicts an information campaign. Such a campaign has been launched by the current government coalition, in our view, long ago, unfortunately negative. With such irresponsible information in the public as we have received in the last six months, there is needless damage in the domestic environment, which is detrimental to potential consumers, as well as in the wider European area. This reduces the reputation of Slovenia, obviously from the narrow partial political interests of individuals and certain groups. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are really worried about the situation. According to informal information, the European Commission is also concerned about the situation. It does not matter at this time what conclusions are adopted today by the National Assembly at the end of this point. It would be important for the Government to take immediate action, or at least to continue work, which, in our view and in the opinion of the European Commissioner, has been well placed, and to channel European funds and own resources into projects that will show immediate effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u152	Your Honor! The debate on this point falls under the heading "No, it's not true." It's not possible, but it's possible. The National Assembly took a retrial and voted on something that was not true. He came to a conclusion as to how one government was successful, how well it worked, and the conclusion went to the archives. The facts are different. The fact is that we were not as successful as the State of Slovenia in 2007, the fact is that Minister Žagar was unable to convince the public, not the government, not anyone, that he was successful. More. In this mandate, he wrote a letter to the current Prime Minister to explain to him how the previous government, or he himself, had been successful, but only no one understood him. The numbers in plus or minus we all understand. And we can't say anything else like the lions do one, the right or one part of the government like that, the other part of the government. 170 million and more are frozen today because of the wrong government policy, because of the stupid introduction of vineyards in the Republic of Slovenia, because of populism, because of the purchase of voters and so on. But nothing about it. 170 million euros and more frozen funds. But as I say, repeat, if you have already repeated the vote and voted on something that cannot be voted as minus plus, then repeat today's debate. But it's more than obvious that we can only find out something. We would be more successful if we were better organised if we were to carry out tenders in a more coordinated manner. The use of funds is imprecise in the Republic of Slovenia, is dispersed and should be determined by a body, someone who would be a leader in this area and would in fact persecute everyone in all areas that can come to calls and apply for calls so that some things can already be prepared and also applied to certain calls for specific projects. It's a weakness, confessed or not. This needs to be corrected, such as some other countries that are more successful than us, Portugal, Greece, Spain and I do not know which other countries have different organisations and otherwise are preparing for these things and are more successful. We had every opportunity, all the instruments in our hands, to be more effective than we were. I'm sorry we weren't, but there's nothing we can do about it. We can learn a lot. And I believe that now we have this experience, that we have already trained teams and that we will make this necessary integration into some joint supervisory or guidance or whatever institution that will be able to do these things differently. It may also be necessary to tell the Slovenian public when we speak the net payer, the net recipient of the funds is Slovenia from the European Union and so on. There's only one thing. There is a very small difference at the rate of receipt or net remuneration in this budget. In fact, we are making use of the funds that are, under certain conditions, through certain instruments that we are paying, and are right and intended for certain projects, and it is right that we should also draw on them. It is the implementation of certain policies, it is the implementation of certain guidelines recommended by the European Union, favoured, allocated money for it. Speaking of this point, it would make sense to talk about the implementation of policies, guidelines, whether Slovenia has really defined certain priorities or not. I don't know what's going on with those 23s or how many of them, world projects in Slovenia that are supposed to go to these lists. The new government has not yet come with an audit or data on where these things will be directed in the near future or by the completion of the financial perspective. It is certain that some things will have to be changed, supplemented, otherwise made, so probably not all the calls that might have already been published this year. The macroeconomic conditions are changing, budget lines are also changing, rebalancing - one another. I hope that we will be able to make the most of everything possible, even because there will be no conditions at home, which call will not be possible in the near future. It is now free to go to 2004-2008. Today we're 23. 4. 2009, and this is the time when we need to look at where we are, what opportunities we have, what we will do to make us more successful. For the last time in my previous debate, I have also spoken to fellow Members about some things. I believe that the Government has also received many good proposals from these discussions and will be able to include them in the amendment, complementing programmes and establishing better mechanisms for the preparation of programmes, projects and for drawing up and controlling funds. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the amendment to the first decision and the first conclusion and the amendment to the fourth decision and the fourth conclusion, which is the only logical one. However, we certainly will not support the desire to say once again that the minus plus is and that what was not good is good, even if this is already recorded in all the programming points of the current coalition and also the conclusion of the re-voting in the National Assembly is stored in the archives of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of MEPs and Members on the proposed material. First of all, Mrs. Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u154	Well welcomed, Mr Vice President, present from the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the debate on the point, I had to look several times to see if we were speaking or if now the title of the point "Will the Pahor's government..., the Pahor's government up, the Pahor's government down..." Several times today, in these positions, sent groups have been said in this form or almost quoted, so let me reiterate that the point is: "The problem of drawing on European funds on the basis of the published report of the Court of Auditors of the European Union in the final accounts of the State budget." Now let's move on. I have already mentioned several times that it is really easy to be successful when you drink honey and milk and it is a high economic growth. In recent years, in the past term, I have estimated that I may be going from the other end so as not to repeat that the opposition has also been successful. This opposition, from everything I could look at in the archives, had previously pointed to certain shortcomings, irregularities, and in particular to the great opportunities that were brought to us during that period of high economic growth, so to speak, on the platter. They were offered, but apparently we didn't know how to take advantage of the details. I believe it wasn't that we didn't want to, we probably didn't know, maybe somehow we didn't. In one of the debates I mentioned, and I know that he was, I remember, some sort of revolt from one of my colleagues. I will quote once again that the facts are such that it would also be extremely interesting to draw on the political definition of certain decisions, decisions and, above all, here I have in mind a coherent regional development which, in one of the discussions of the Committee on Local Self-Government, also reflected an interesting political definition of coherent regional development. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia has made observations and recommendations, so let us take this into account, not just to attack each other, if I may say harshly. But what's very interesting is the following facts that I have in this yellow and green and blue table. It's such a color that no one would think I was joking. 46.38% is indicated for the realisation of the use of European funds. This is the realisation of the government in 2008, relative to the European budget or, let's say, let's not blind ourselves, let's not blind ourselves to the fact that the reality wasn't what we wanted. 46.38%. If we look at 100 minus 46 realized, it's enough to realize the plan. In 2008, the Republic of Slovenia was a net contributor to the EU budget for the amount of EUR 64 million,725,400. That's a fact. This is not a political argument or an interpretation of the opposition: a coalition, however anyone would like to call it. I am pleased, however, by the one recognition that had been given earlier by one of my colleagues when he said that the use of European funds was indeed less than was planned. What's smaller? This table shows a plan: 783 million planned European fund withdrawals in the 2008 budget balance, implementation was 363 million and several euros. Indeed, it is totally unacceptable and unacceptable to say that the then government was lost or missed. Why is it unacceptable? I wouldn't say anything was missing. If it is true that nothing has been missed, I estimate that today, in these few months, four months of this government, we are Members of Parliament, this government has slightly less months to go. And if there were such a thing now, on the other hand, I think if the terrain were ready, then I would not be faced with a major crisis after four months, because earlier the terrain would be so ready that, as far as the funds are concerned, this crisis, if it were in that form, could be significantly smaller. Unfortunately, however, it is too late to ring the bell after the hail, and I would not want to condemn here what might have been wronged or untapped. Of course, I also agree with the discussion of colleagues when they have recommended or assessed that there is a real need to ensure consistency of regional development, the feasibility of drawing on European funds, as well as prudence. Let me repeat that it was interesting, in fact, one of the fellow Members almost complained when he said, "How can we use the approved millions of euros if the land isn't built yet, so we can't even build a cleaning plant at this point?".. Indeed, it was somehow about this usefulness of an interesting business decision in the issue of decisions and approval. However, I don't mind, as a colleague at the time of his reporting, he should probably also consider whether it is even right that only on the basis of some conceptual dips, as we say, are projects reported if it is difficult to judge whether they will come through during this period. It is also interesting that it has been said that we want those who discuss perhaps differently than anyone likes it, but the fact is that it is a pity that anyone who has been responsible for changes in the past wants to cloud this responsibility, I believe that they do not want to hide it, but that such and similar tables answer us or speak of responsibility for the changes that have taken place at that time. Today, I agree that in three and a half years, this government will be responsible for the changes. Of course, walking, as a colleague said, by municipalities in Slovenia, by local communities can be extremely interesting. It is also extremely interesting, as my colleague, the President of the Committee on Local Self-Government told me, that there is an interesting overview of how and what has been tried in connection with the implementation and conclusions on the approval of certain projects, including the drawing of European funds, as this regionally agreed. However, in some congregations this was more potent, more intense, more stressed, and the opportunities on their part were greater. For the border area with the Republic of Croatia there were slightly less opportunities, but I hope that this order will not apply, so that the opportunity that was missed does not come back. I hope this is not the case, because I think that areas along the border where smaller settlements are concerned, where unfortunately drinking water is not yet available when it comes to smaller projects, have not been approved or have been different. The timeliness of the publication of tenders, the co-financing shares of municipalities and the ability to provide own resources - I am sorry that, in the past, it has not been possible for the State to recover funds from local communities more quickly so that local communities do not have to provide them with loans. Therefore, this matter will need to be adjusted now. However, I certainly do not think that the accusation of the current Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development is appropriate. I don't know if any of us today have personally offended any of Dr. Zhagar's former well-respected Minister of Local Self-Government. I believe, however, that what has been said to be led by the Minister of Information Campaign, I think we agree that, with regard to the establishment of a mechanism for systematic monitoring of the absorption of all European funds, there is also some kind of information system, the need to provide correct and timely information so that any shortcomings do not arise from the mandate or from year to year. Therefore, as some colleagues have said before, I will also support the amendments, which are appropriate and are in line with the facts we want to follow. Above all, I believe that the fact that we drink clean water or want pure wine is extremely close to us. Someone said in the debate on March 4th that we may have had enough fishing in the mud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u156	Respectable. If the previous government has not spent as much as it has planned, the current government and the current government should be extremely grateful and happy, as there is a substantial amount of funding available for the projects you will be carrying out during this mandate period. And today, on your side here at this hearing, you should hear what you're going to do to make up for what you're going to do, and what you're going to do to make up for what's been delayed, as you say, which has not been used in the previous period. The conditions in which we are this year require so much more operational and so much more agile action in the planning and use of these European funds. I must say, I am very surprised that you do not express this joy over this fact. With regard to today's debate and its necessity or non-necessity. We all agree here. It is true, there is no need for this debate. Who demanded it, Your Honor? You asked for it. In January, you submitted a request to the Commission for the supervision of public finances to discuss this. It was you, really, SD, LDS, Desus. And that's why this is being discussed. It was you who prevented us from discussing this once, on March 4th this year. And that's why we're discussing this twice. But you are power. You're the one who lets us talk about what and how we're going to talk about in the National Assembly. You also read our minds after the news because the permanent chairman of your clients interrupts us when we want to say something and explain it. You're the one conducting the work in this National Assembly, and it's your responsibility. Net recipients or net contributors of funds. I find that some of you haven't even read the material. It's really huge, the whole folder we got this material, and this is the second time. And I believe that the terrible effort of this folder is already in the hall, let alone read what it says. But in God's name, the Court of Auditors' report is very thin. This is the Court of Auditors' report and it is very clear. You just have to read everything, not just what suits someone. One of your kind explained in the previous session that all three accounts should be viewed, from the Zares species, that all three accounts should be viewed, which is on pages 28 to 30, and if we are looking at all three accounts, then we will find that Slovenia paid EUR 355 million in 2007 to the European Union budget of EUR 904,036 and received EUR 387 million 234,316. If we subtract this, we get the difference, 31 million 330 thousand EUR 280 more has been paid than was paid in this budget. It is not possible to stop at the first indent because there are three indents. Not just the first one that suits someone. It's something like in court. In court, you have to read all the points, not just the first one, if you want to speak the truth. So I don't think there's any more doubt and it's unnecessary to argue about it. And it is also unnecessary for this debate to see what we get if we find out whether we are net or not net. We don't get anything. We need to discuss how these funds or you must now tell us how you will benefit from these funds in the period ahead. As soon as possible, the better. This year is very important and next year, then there will be no more, then the bike will start spinning. But now it's not spinning, now it's standing. And that is why it is now most important that these funds begin to be used. What was the programme for strengthening the regional development potentials of these projects? That's it. And they're very much written on the guest side. You see, there were so many. As much as former Minister Zhagar was incompetent, so was the current Minister of Mag. Gold Platesteiner is incapable of participating in this service. I'm surprised she's not here today. You could say a lot of things firsthand. What and how it was done and how many projects were approved. I don't know which one was political. Was it the one given to the congregation of Metlik? Was it the one who received the Kranj Congregation? Kranj, Zares Mayor, Metlika, SD Mayor. Was it the one received by the congregation of Divac? SLS Mayor. Was it the political one we got in Postojna? In Postojna, I'm the mayor. This is completely irrelevant. Are these pipes politically flowing through the water and sewerage? That's ridiculous. I don't think this is the level of debate in the National Assembly, it's not a serious level. But if you're asking me about politics, I can tell you a concrete case. It happened after the elections before the new government was established, at the Ministry of Education. The Municipality of Postojna was the fourth-place kindergarten project and the fifth-place municipality of Domžale. And behold him the devil, which suddenly took place in this period: they were in the fourth, and the congregation of Postojna in the fifth. However, four projects are financed so that there is no misunderstanding. That's how it is. In recent years, however, the Municipality of Postojna has applied for many projects and we have succeeded in about half. We did not succeed with many who were of high quality. Because not everyone can succeed. Only the best can succeed. And that's right. And I hope that's how it's gonna be in the future. The fact that the Minister is a magician. The Plosteiner gold, it gives me optimism. I'm just afraid she'll have a chance to influence what's going to happen at this ministry. Or will there be a superminister who was very effective at channelling funds when he was sitting at another financial institution, Lehman Brothers, and so on, where we lost tens of millions of euros, no one is responsible for that. That funds for some highway section are frozen, the current minister, who is incapable of solving this problem, bears sole responsibility. The proposal he made and read in public is the most inappropriate proposal that we can read in recent times. It will burden our citizens and will not significantly improve this situation to the European Commission. As a result of this proposal, we will still not be freed by those funds which have been illegally frozen. This should be pointed out and it should be established that there should be a judicial procedure and so on. That the highway program never financed itself, and we all know it. Not before, not now. However, it is a fact that more funds are now being raised than before when customs were collected and 10km are being created for this reason. It's the current minister's responsibility. It's been going on for six months. I think it's a problem that can be solved with one operational work within one month at the latest. And if you don't believe me, look, ask a colleague who isn't sitting there right now, from your kind, which she found out about, I think on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. His client colleague found this to be a matter for the Minister to request that the procedure be initiated. But it's not that someone is blocking some kind of asset - without any justification, without any paper. But he's responsible for the current minister, not the former minister, who doesn't have a chance to influence these things anymore. Better success could be, we agree on it always, and we will always agree. It's always possible to work harder. There is no procedure, there is no man in this world who would be most successful. Someone can always be more successful in competition rules. And that's the way it is in this area. And here I said at the outset on behalf of the parliamentary group: in a more successful work, the opposition fully supports you. However, we do not support you in what is happening now or what was happening on 4 March when we discussed this report, where conclusions were adopted that turn the Government and the National Assembly into some investigators instead of turning them into those that will pave the way for more successful work in this area. In doing so, the opposition will always support you. I didn't hear today that the current minister would have been accused in any way. However, she was accused by a member of the ruling coalition at the previous meeting, when Mrs Zalokar Orazem said, quote, "The official structure that prepared these reports, which we have in the National Assembly, is not appropriate. Reports are prepared in a distorted manner, which is why it is necessary to consider replacing this structure." Watch out, official structure. It reminds me of that river of politics that says, "if people didn't vote for me, it's best we switch people." But a part of this official structure is also the current minister. It is said that the Member State requests that the current Minister be replaced. Please! This is the wrong world. Please get your hands on each other. Start running this country as it is for the government and start dealing with things that will enable more successful work in all not only in this area. That work in the past has been successful, these projects, which we have in this material in the National Assembly, are proving to be successful. But we all agree that it is always possible to work even more successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You know, all the governments have been trained to do the balance sheets in their own way, to set them up a little bit, and I believe that this balance sheet is also designed so that the eye is attracted and the viewers are moved. But reality is different. Considering what experts are alerting us to and what some ministers in the government already say, the truth is very cruel. For example, railways are threatened with losing as much as half a billion euros of money from cohesion funds, where we know that almost nothing is exhausted anyway. Furthermore, as I said last time, coordination between the individual ministries responsible for preparing documents intended to be central to the assessment and allocation of European funds is not such coordination. We also find many times that ministries, although each one does its own work, also regularly forget about the hands of the show. Finally, we also do so if we are already granted credit or grants, we do not know how to ensure our own participation in the budget. It's a railway case again. We have spent three times a year on the already approved 4 million to build the second track of Koper-Divač, and the Secretary of State can nominate, but in this budget in three years we did not know how to secure our own participation. So I don't know if this was returned to Brussels or not; probably not because you've fixed this mistake now. When we talk about how much we lost in the road area or why we have blocked money, as my colleague Anderlič was talking about, it is €170 million, we can see that there is a lot wrong with you, in bureaucracy, with government officials in individual ministries. I believe that the Minister or Minister does not run this area on many occasions, that this is done by successful or unsuccessful bureaucrats, as can be seen from our work, when we are trying to intervene, to ask for an emergency and so on. Ministers and ministers often do not order almost anything; it is sad in our country. But red tape is one that grinds this wheel slowly and, of course, makes a permanent mistake for a mistake. But since no one asks for health, and nothing is placed on the limit of responsibility, no one is persecuted, but he can do his job at home. Last time I said no banal example: if a worker in direct production did so as some senior officials in individual ministries who are guilty, it is clear that Slovenia has lost the opportunity and the opportunity to use the funds, as is seen in the fact that we are giving 8 percent or so more than we are receiving or are net contributors to the European budget, which also shows that we have very poorly absorbed these funds. If workers were to work so irresponsiblely in direct production, the employer would probably decide to end the employment relationship for false reasons. This makes it possible for the Labour Relations Act to do so. But since it's the government, because it's an individual ministry, these mistakes can be repeated again and again in the same form and no one is responsible for it. In the end, the account is presented to someone other than the people. I'd like to ask you, how many fewer roads are we going to have because of this? How many less railroads are we gonna have for this? We're already late for the railroads anyway. As a result of what we are talking about today, the words of Dr Patrick Vlačič threaten us to lose the fifth trans-European corridor because we do not have an updated system, a safety system, because we do not have an adequate upper and lower track structure, because we are reminded of this by other members of the European Community and therefore we are not market-oriented for the transport of goods. And in fact, these transit flows are already around us. But nobody here in this country cares. Dr Patrick Vlačič calmly says that we will have to return half a billion euros back to the Brussels cash register because we have no projects. We established the Railway Transport Directorate years ago. The National Assembly commissioned the Slovenian people for a number of generations to move forward, in this area giving powers in essence to state guarantees, to rent credits, nothing happened. We have not started any projects, nor have we started drawing from European funds for any project. Because we're incompetent. And that's how we get a chance to have a water raft, and no one's responsible for it. We have a railway agency, we have a direct line. But we don't have projects, and these two institutions are in state administration and they both have a clear direction. They are set up to lead investments and start intensive preparations for updating the rail system, which will be financed by European funds. And what happened? Nothing. Ten years, nothing's happened. I can't help but find the culprits. Any failed or unfulfilled task shall have a mandate holder. And if we have any conscience, we will also dig up this taskmaster and ask him for his responsibilities. If we do not trust anyone, neither the previous government nor the present one, then we must trust those institutions that we have set up to oversee us alone and, of course, the state. And this is the Court of Auditors. And the audit report talks about a lot of things and says a lot of things. I would like to point out that, at a time when we can seek in construction to bridge this crisis period, when we should intensively develop this sector and also seek the financial resources offered by Europe, today, at least what I have pointed out the last time, should be the establishment of a specific coordination body that would ensure that documents are currently prepared between ministries and that they do not stand in the handovers of individual ministries, because there are also three ministries that have to play their role for some of the calls. It's a shame that Mr. Gerjev, former Minister of Transport, is not here today. He could tell how much trouble he had because there was no cooperation and I believe that you are repeating this mistake. One year from now, we'll be talking again about what we missed. We'll talk about who did it, who didn't do it. Some of you will want to have credit for what has been minimally done, and in the end, we will "sugar" the whole thing, as we know it, and present it in a positive light. For me in this area, if we take only the agricultural area, 80% in the past have been earmarked by the European cash register for this, today it is more than 50% for agriculture. Here we can also say that there are some movements, but we are very poor at drawing on these funds. Not to speak for the infrastructure and cohesion area, as I said before. But there's a perfect mountain, a disaster. And don't say we're successful. We didn't. Shame can be on all those who are in charge of preparing the paperwork because they have done nothing. Too bad they're getting paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u160	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. We are back on the subject that has been very busy for a very long time, and it was obviously a topic on which it was also tried to play on the lines of elections and voters before the elections. In one part, I think it has even been possible to prove or demonstrate Slovenia's great failure in this area, and this topic is repeated in the National Assembly as it is in the Committee on Local Self-Government, where three times, four times, they sat on this subject, even on today's parent committee, which is the proposer of this point, and we are obviously very good and knowledgeable in this vocabulary of pre-election time, a dictionary that speaks in general and across the board, and today, in Parliament, half a year after the elections, we have not moved even 14 days ahead of the pre-election time. Now that there's been some controversy about the ratings and on these performances, I don't want much more, just a few phrases about the previous time, I just want to read the transcript from 11. 11. 2008, according to Martin's election year last year, the Commissioner's statements in charge of regional policy, Mrs Danute Hübner, who, at the point when Slovenia was also able to obtain solidarity funds after the storm in Gorenjska, also gave her opinion on the quality of the drawdown and how Slovenia put itself in these financial perspectives in this area. It's her statement. "At this point, I take the opportunity to point out that we are also in the process of implementing the new programming period in addition to the Solidarity Fund. Slovenia was one of the first Member States to have adopted and today, despite the outcome of the elections, a good start to the new programming period. I can also say that the first conformity assessment is a description of the system by which the Member State, in addition to the advance payment, has to start paying for the actual assessment of Slovenia's compliance with the environmental and transport infrastructure we adopted in March this year, which also shows a good start to the new programming period. In addition, Slovenia was one of the two Member States with which we signed the Treaty of Trust in February this year." And so on. I don't want to stay in the past for long, but I want to say that I, as a local politician alone, at the municipal level, as well as as as the President of the Management Board of the Regional Development Agency in Posavje, have been very well monitoring the emergence of this programming period, also being active in the composition of the regional programmes, monitoring how programmes are being prepared at the national level. And those who know that, even in the European Community, the adoption of the budget for this budget period has been delayed, that we have received operational programmes approved in the middle and towards the end of 2007, are very clear if this matter is being processed to the end, how long it takes to get in the budget, in the final account of the item on the implementation of the individual programme. Mr Cernač had previously presented a list of these projects, which are currently under way last year and which are somehow proof of some work in the past. I also think that more could be done in a wide range of areas in the previous period, more on the programmes and longer than we are today. We all know, however, that the programming period is 7 years plus 2 years, that we have only just started preparing projects in the middle of 2007 and are now in progress. At this meeting of the National Assembly, I also asked Mr Magi a question. Gaspari, given that I have been monitoring his hearing and there has been a talk at the time about a major transformation of the system of drawing on European funds, and I have also expressed my doubts at that time that it is probably not the time for them to be in this large and innovative work and to be asked again for accreditation in Europe, but that this drawing should continue as soon as possible. I am glad that this movement has not taken place and that the existing pumping structure remains as it was. I think that all of us in Slovenia will feel very strongly during this budget period that we have not established in Slovenia a landscape that could to a large extent be the carriers of key projects for which funds from these European funds, cohesion and regional funds are allocated. In Slovenia, I think we have in many cases passed the classic municipal environment, small municipal projects, and that we have projects of the provincial type ahead. In this part, I think one of the key points is putting projects into space. And as long as you're looking for the culprits for some cleaning plant, some community dump doesn't take place in a region, if you look for the culprits in the ministries, you'll be looking for them in the wrong place. The provinces or regional areas are the ones that have to place the largest projects in the space. Such a project, which is a pair of ten million euros, is placed in a space of four to five years and is implemented for two to three years, which is one whole budget period. And I myself firmly believe that, as I said before, we will actually feel the mania of the regions in the Slovenian space. Project 3 of the development axis, any Minister of the Environment, regardless of which parties will come from, if, in any environment, the local environment, the individual municipalities are set up on average and will not be able to adopt the State Spatial Plan for the route of this road, these funds will also be indemnified. And that is, for my understanding, the actual competence of the regions, regional agencies today, because we do not have administrative regions and political ones, and it is in this part to seek solutions. With regard to today's debate and my appeal to the Government's representatives, as we see today at the time of the recession, at a time of lack of economic challenges, I think there is a great opportunity to draw on these funds. And myself, as I monitor the work in individual ministries, I think that these services are undernourished at all ministries, and here I think that the Government has the ideal opportunity to simply find out where the staff manna and other departments are simply redistributing people to strengthen this team. For the use of these funds was also a professionally demanding work, requiring quality staff and a sufficient number of people. In some ways, I expect that what we have also pointed out will not happen at the time of the beginning of the mandate, that there will be no temptation by the Government and government representatives after some centralisation of these projects. In some ways, I think that today is an opportunity to start an economy in all Slovenian regions in these projects. That, in my deep belief, a large part of these activities and the implementation of these projects should also be transferred to Slovenian municipalities, which are faster, more operational than individual ministries, and that in this connection, with good assistance from ministries and active local communities, it is also necessary to speed up the use of funds. I myself come from an environment in which we have been so far, I can say, successful in this area, prepared in time. And, colleagues, if you think we've been successful here because Mr Jagar happens to be my client colleague, you're very wrong. Those who wish to implement this programme must start the programme five years earlier, put it in space five years earlier, prepare project documentation, regulate ownership relations, and this is not the case for a year or two to settle. And that's why it's a little bit easy to talk about some incompetent structures and also some party ties. Otherwise, all the documents are on the table and anyone can check them out. And I think it's done well. It is also necessary to revise the work backwards, but it is essential that the matter begins in advance. And today I can peacefully say that I miss myself very much and in a way expect, already last year, announced calls in the area of cohesion policy, where, in my opinion, about 160 million euros are earmarked for efficient energy use. We have also prepared local environments in a regional sense in such a way that we are producing energy reviews of primary schools, that we have prepared projects for the rehabilitation of these schools. And here I think it's an opportunity. I'm afraid if this hint of guidance is that these funds will be used only through state-run facilities such as hospitals and similar facilities. You may have problems, so human resources, with those who will have to do these things, and I'm afraid they're not all ready. I appeal to the early calls for effective energy use. I very much miss having finally reached a decision in the area of economic centres. In Slovenia, there are quite a few of them ready, and after this review, which the Government has now carried out, let us finally determine which areas have the projects that were expected to be owned by this period, with building permits, and also start in the form of economic centres where logistics, knowledge and similar knowledge unites, that this introduction in the area of the restoration of cultural monuments also begins. We've been preparing projects to rebuild castles for several years. In particular, 300,000 euros was a project documentation for the renovation of the Rajhenburg Castle. Together with the Ministry of Culture, this castle was thought to be a joint project. Unfortunately, there is no invitation to tender for the municipality and the Ministry. My appeal in these discussions. Dear fellow Members, I think we are needlessly burdening these people who are here today and could work more on the preparation of these projects. And I want us to meet in the National Assembly as soon as possible in reviewing the things that have been done in this mandate and that we will also start from this area by drawing on funds and also by mitigating the crisis. Because one billion that we can use per year, now in the next few years, means 2.5% of Slovenia's gross social income. However, since parity funds are always needed to account for more than half of them, we can generate up to 4.5% of gross social income here. And I think this is our opportunity and mission in these difficult times to do it as soon as possible and to deal with it. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am firmly convinced that today's debate would not be necessary if this debate did not go in the wrong direction when the final accounts were adopted for 2007 and, of course, in particular, if it were not for each other's own interpretation of the Court of Auditors' report. If they had accepted the fact that the Court of Auditors had already stated that we had not been successful in drawing up European funds and that we would not have actually accepted this and would not have made a policy and would have moved immediately to new measures, that is, how to prepare calls or incentives so that in 2009, 2010 and 2011 they could better and better prepare themselves with real projects with content and in some way also provide additional financial resources to municipalities, particularly in view of the fact that the State would have taken a decision to consider VAT as its own cost or as a eligible cost for a project. Now, as much as we are guilty in individual regions or areas, I can say from my own experience. So, Central Slovenian Mountains have some kind of drinking water supply problem, we have a water network set up, it needs to be restored, but we are waiting two years for a conclusion so that we can start the project. In fact, not everything was as successful as it was shown. Today, in this debate, we have also heard some other findings that the projects have been distributed in one way or another. Although it does not bother me personally if someone had the advantage of having more support or less support in ministers, if this project has been carried out in a good way in that environment and has contributed new added value. But it is true that some had priorities. And I will, because some people have said that, too. From the Ministry of Education, the primary school of Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica concluded that it could draw funds this year, the second year and the following year, the primary school of the Council of Trojica, which did not have an opening during the election campaign, but did not receive this decision and I will not talk about my own municipality. I think, colleagues and colleagues, it doesn't even matter who got something back, how someone got it back. It's important how we work on it. I therefore appeal to the Government, the institutions, to prepare cuts for the next perspective area as soon as possible, to start implementing projects and thus to mitigate the economic crisis, as this could provide additional jobs or new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Good-bye! If my colleague Anderlich stopped talking, then I could keep talking. Therefore, however, if anything has been done in this area in the previous mandate, the report of Minister Zlata Plosteiner, who also gave a written reply, shows that 50.2% of the funds at local level have been used for investments in road infrastructure, environmental infrastructure, Natura and so on in the last two years. This means that these calls were, the local communities have applied and these projects are also in implementation. I'm actually worried about something about this debate today. First time, there'll be another call. The Minister herself says that the call will be announced in this first half of 2009 and will be announced in advance, i.e. quotas, conditions, allocation of funds and eligibility for the use of these funds. But time is running out. Now we're at the end of the fourth month. The former Minister issued a notice at least two or three months in advance and then the invitation to tender. So it is high time that these things are prepared to continue projects and that there will be no stagnation or even calls by the Ministry of Local Self-Government to withdraw from contracts. The projects are time-bound, one by the means of these calls by 2010 and the other by the time of 2010. Or, in particular, part of the projects is the construction of sewerage, while others, where local communities are waiting for the call, are the construction of a cleaning plant. And within two years, the sewer has to work, which means that the cleaning plant has to be built. But I'm more concerned about something else. Colleagues and colleagues, I also ask in this place that it be recorded. A little over €300 million is available at the Ministry of Local Self-Government. A little over 700 million were these funds. In order not to happen by chance because it is waiting for this call to be made so that we do not change, for example, the purpose or perhaps even the size of the projects that would have been announced. So that no one from the SVRL could take these 300 million to any other ministries, to some other projects, for more urban affairs, because that doesn't make any sense anymore. We're talking about regional development. But I don't believe regional development is exactly that; there are probably few of you who know this; 19 municipalities together with Ljubljana, 144 million euros for a waste disposal project, but a large majority of this is European money, cohesion money. Why not the congregation from Slovenian Gorica, but why not the congregation in Maribor, Styria, and so on? In short, I'm afraid it's already happening that the promise to Zoran Jankovic is being paid for the payment of the botteries, when a prayer book has been brought back to the Burma, and now he wants the whole Mercedes back. I'm afraid it's not going to be the way it was when the highways were built, as they were building in the Ljubljana and Central region, but it was OK when it was built against Prekmurje, and then without the retreat belt, narrower August and so on. Warning [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word has magic. A visionary as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. For the Commission, which proposes this point, the evaluation of the effectiveness, the effectiveness of drawing in the past is completed. We have adopted conclusions on this subject and have also valued this value. And I wouldn't discuss it, but at the very least, I would argue with those who don't share that view. However, I believe there is a parliamentary majority here who can overrun these findings as well. I would like to draw my attention to the crucial purpose of today's debate and the key message that today's debate must have, which is how to proceed. In this context, the fourth decision was also taken by the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, which reads: "The National Assembly calls on the Government to make European funds as effective as possible and to continue at least with the dynamics achieved in the first two years of the financial perspective 2007-2013. The National Assembly also expects an increase in the flow of European funds over the year, particularly in operational programmes for the development of environmental, transport infrastructure, as one of the measures in the light of the promotion of economic growth, the highway programme, the optical network, the modernisation of the rail network, energy projects..." And so on. This is an important decision that speaks and is a clear message from Parliament and the Commission: Next. At least with the same dynamics as before. And here I have some data, like what happened with, say, one of the performance enhancement indicators or the maintenance of efficiency. These are published tenders. For example, for the Operational Programme for the Development of the Regions and for the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, which are very important programmes in terms of competitiveness of the economy and so on. Status on day 31. 12. 2008 is identical to 31st day. 3. 2009 for the tenders published. For one and the other operational programme. So in three months of this year, the current government has not issued any calls for proposals in this area. Where is there, sir, some acceleration or maintenance of dynamics? That is why the Government, and I ask you to answer, I ask, or representative of the Government, what is the review on Day 31. 3. 2009? The extent to which these funds are sold, appropriations granted under operational programmes, signed contracts, payments and reimbursements. And we, as parliamentarians, want to respect the conclusions that they take. I do not think that there is a Member in this assembly who would not like some strong dynamic of drawing on European funds, efficient drawing. But we have a feeling that things have stopped. To summarize what happened in 2004. In 2004, we actually had to launch a financial perspective 2004 - 2006. Even at the beginning of 2005, because it was in some very passive state and we started it with some torment and today we estimate that good data is back. Then there was a whole bunch of problems in 2007, because, I don't know, we were negotiating for a new financial perspective, and we were negotiating it late. Indeed, it is much more optimistic than it was then carried out, but it is also a new financial perspective, which is more comprehensive, starting up. I feel like she's slowing down now. I'd like the government's department to convince me otherwise. I'd like him to keep us apprised of these key numbers that talk about it. And one more question. What will the balance of the European funds be? Today you in the government have accepted the starting point for a rebalancing, i.e. a new rebalancing of 2009. I'm sure you have data on how many European funds can be put into the balance sheet after a new one. I ask for this information to be seen in the debate phase before the conclusions are adopted on how serious the Government is to get married from Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you. The government will come forward when it wants to give an answer. I'm counting on it. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! When I read the Court of Auditors' audit report before the parental board meeting, I wondered what system these flat-rate assessments were based on. After the Committee's own debate, however, I also found that the system itself of drawing on funds is really a little complicated, but far from being bad, and we also acknowledge that it is necessary and that we also need to improve it. We can't call it bad and inappropriate, as everything Janša's government is supposed to have done. I would like to point out that the preparation of operational programmes in recent years, together with the Government Office for Local Development and the EU, has been very effective. Even now, we can see tables across the country marking joint projects with the EU. Economic zones, tourism infrastructure, energy projects, sewerage systems, water pipelines, village and city nuclei regulation testify that so far a lot of funding has been drained by municipalities. The current cases in the field, however, show a very poor picture of this continuation. The municipalities shall be consistent in the transmission of applications as they regularly settle their obligations to the operators. It's stuck in state control on the ground. It was unreasonable to delay work until the end of 2008 and instead of receiving funds for this year, we received the amount of funding for 2009, which is only a third of the signed contract amount. This is why municipalities in Slovenia have great liquidity problems and I am very interested in how it will continue. On the other hand, I am worried again because there are no and no new invitations to tender. However, with the success of drawing on European funds, we are pleased at the wider bad end. After the procedures that were initiated and coordinated in the mandate of the Janša government or the main work carried out, we have received the necessary substantial funds for the bishop's office, which will mark this area strongly and positively for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. Of course, the question is why today, 23 April, with the same agenda item with the same content as 4 March if we adopted the relevant conclusions on 5 March. It is also impossible to hide after the introductory performances of some, as well as some discussions, that this is the same experiment as in the 2007 final account. No new fact, no new information, except perhaps another additional report by the Court of Auditors, which it is still looking for, has been examined. It is very clear that the applicants, although it is still not clear to me personally who the applicant is and I am a member of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, want to reach conclusions which were rejected at the 5th and 4th March plenary meetings in some way. Since then, the Commission for Budgetary Control and Public Finance has not dealt with the issue of European funds, so there is no new fact. It is quite difficult to listen to some of the informal discussions. Let me limit myself to just one example. The Commissioner's words or letters are sacred, the position of the Commission; I hope not because it is the Commissioner; however, all condemnation is worth it. So much for our principles. What suits us is good, which doesn't suit us, not good. It will be very interesting to hear in a little while, a year or two, when there will be another review and some other negative surprise from Brussels, similar to agriculture, and then it will be interesting if some tables are still standing, it would be good to have them stop to write a supplement on those tables. But the problem is too wide. I will limit myself only to that part, once again, where the recipients or participants are at the invitation of the local community or the congregation. Indirectly, however, the data is carried out through statistical regions. Of course, the fundamental question is whether, in the past, the European Union's funds were first distributed legally or in a function of more coherent regional development? Have they been used with care? And there would be other questions. By the end of last year, around 328 million were distributed in this area, the rights of use were allocated and around 100 million were paid. Of course, this does not mean that this 100 million is from a current financial perspective. Let us take a look at the statistical regions. We have just determined the level of development based on the Development Hazard Index and it is interesting to look at the level of development or developmental hazard and the allocation of the right to use resources across statistical regions. The most underdeveloped is the Pomurska region. According to the rights granted by the end of last year from this "jacket", it is not in the first place, it is in the second. Who's first? The first is the Lower Posava region, which is statistically under the degree of underdevelopment, barely fourth. The second by the index is Notranj-brahka. According to the allocations, he is in fourth place. The third after indevelopment is Podravska, according to allocated rights in sixth place. The fourth is Spodnjesavska, which I have already talked about, according to the allocated rights, is first of all. The fifth after indevelopment is South-Eastern Slovenia, according to allocated rights is third. Very interesting. It is also very difficult to talk about political or non-political criteria. Of course, if we're still projecting this from the data we received, otherwise unprocessed, and if you print this a few kilograms to the municipalities, you make this projection based on the political affiliation, the one published on the Internet, not any statement, the mayors. Rights were allocated to the Slovenian People's Party EUR 224, SDS 188, Novi Slovenija 463, but to the former coalition on average 228. The municipalities where the independent mayors, representing the largest group according to the political definition or membership of the mayors, were only EUR 119.9 per head. The parishioners belonging to the various leaves, 112.2 euros per head. If we bring this group together, this 118,5 euros per head or 100 euros per head is less than the mayors of the ruling former coalition. That we won't be unilateral. SD mayors or municipalities run by 149,7, LDS 223,5, Indeed 66,2 and the Slovenian National Party 168,1. Or if we say that this is the opposition from earlier times, it belongs to the head of the allocated rights according to the documents we received in December, 177.6 euros. But interestingly, from 327 million euros, the former coalition divided 153 million into 671 thousand inhabitants. The other group of independents and 88 million lists for 744 000 citizens, while that opposition group had 57 million allocated rights or 327 000 citizens. It is even worse that out of 210 Slovene municipalities, 22 municipalities were not granted any rights, either by their own fault or other, in the allocation of rights. It is a matter of assigning and such a picture or such a projection answers a number of questions. Interesting is the top scale of 10 percent of the municipalities in the tip that got the most on their heads. Slovenian People's Party 8, independent 6, SDS 2, LDS 3, Nova Slovenija 2, and others are not included. Of course, it's a little different, but essentially not, but it looks like a picture of the realisation of the funds paid in time to 31. 12. Here, when we go back to the regional level and try to determine whether the acquisition and distribution of EU funds is a function of more coherent regional development, we find, clearly and loudly, without the policy of the data, that is, gold, if we turn it into rankings according to the existing index, the development risks and the funds actually paid. In fact, the Gorenje region acquired or received 27.5 euros, Goriška 73.9, South-East 80.75, Koroška 68.74, Notranjko-kraška 79.85, Coastal-kraška 50.21. Centralslovenska 2,67, Podravska 57,33, Pomurska as the most underdeveloped 117,26, Savinjska 79,32 and Spodnjeposavksa 45,25, this region has significantly deteriorated compared to the allocated rights. Of course, from this data it is possible to conclude that in the financial reality above the level of development or underdevelopment, better said, South-Eastern Slovenia, Coastal-Kraška and Savinjska, Spodnjesavska here is significantly worse off than in the allocation of rights. The situation in the municipalities is similar. If we just fly through it, we get a similar picture as the allocation of rights. On average, the coalition divided 64.56 euros into its municipalities, with opposition 42.8 not saying enough, since the average in Slovenia is 50 and 49.97. In particular, the People's Party seems to be 60.94, SDS 45.18, Nova Slovenija 96.92, SD 41.04, LDS 68.28, independent 36.7, leaves 43.93 and Ares 25.31, or the opposition on average 42.8. Interestingly, in the largest group, according to the political affiliation of the mayors, these are independent mayors, the largest of whom represent 33.9% of the population, but only 24.9% were allocated. Another party belonging to the minister - for the first time, I'm going to say something critical at the expense of the minister, I've never done it before, it's 25% of the population, but they've divided the bad 30.8. And with such projections based on actual data, nothing in mind, we can proceed. In the autumn, just before the elections, the call for this part of the infrastructure, the broadband internet, was today. And look at it, 46 million written-off funds were distributed by the mayors by SDS 16 million 600, Nova Slovenija 9 million 800, SLS 9 million 200 and DeSUS 9 million 56, and that's 46. One of the employees in the service warned when we discussed this issue of preparation for the session in December that it was dangerous for the force to speak out loud about possible irregularities and weaknesses because they were monitoring and listening in Brussels. It is good and I hope there will be sanctions as soon as possible, because we need sanctions. And that's the answer I put in the previous minister's mandate if he's thinking about a risky fund, if he's thinking about what's going to happen to us, because we're having one habit, and I'm calling them Balkan, and I got an answer that we have a letter of confidence. I was very pleased; the letter of confidence is just paper, and the paper carries a lot of things; when this relation to this letter of trust and our practices is confirmed also by a member of the Court of Auditors in Brussels last time in the debate, and those who have listened there, some have not, read a stenogram, you will see, also, an interesting position or presentation of the views of the European Commissioner, who has been quoted here repeatedly as an argument for defending certain acts or if you want to have our conversations too. Of course, in these discussions, I expected it in June, because three months are running out in June for the Government to prepare a report. But those who say that everything is now standing, now stand or move as it was prepared. Currently, only projects that were prepared at least last year, if not earlier, can be under way. And please stop explaining this to us. And please stop explaining to us what innovation has been described as a higher value or a higher value than expected. I would suggest that you imagine those who say so. This means recognition of a bad organisation, recognition of the high probability that it is bad projects or costs that will not be recognised. So let's imagine that we have an ideal organization, ideal projects. What happens in politics? Who's gonna pay for that in the end? The state budget, but not the European funds, and now still within the scope of clear state resources. There's always some success. I am not saying this because I would like to say that it is unsuccessful, but it is ineffective and absolutely insufficient for their Slovenian needs. If we measure the success or failure of the past two years, I will limit myself to two years, could be more, it is a difference if we measure the difference between the planned revenues from the EU and those created, then there is no debate and there is no excuse. Because no one forced us into the plan. We wrote the plans ourselves. We changed them ourselves. And if we've been writing unrealistics, it's our own fault or those who voted for it. And responsibility falls on everything anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm old-fashioned and, of course, I want to commend all those who are doing great. All those who don't, of course, play. And I have remembered some important things from today's debates, namely saying the former government and praising it in terms of "we have negotiated a lot". Then, in fact, the question arises why you did not ensure that this would also be exhausted. You had everything in hand and it is clear that 62% was exhausted, which is clearly also evident from the audit report and there is nothing to dispute with this audit report. I don't see any reason for anyone to be able to submit to the audit report. It is also clear from this audit report that there is a negative €64 million in the previous period. Causes? I always have to say A and B. I have reasons because we have a development agency and I've had a lot of interviews with a colleague who runs a development agency and told me clearly and loudly, including with written evidence of what was going on. The calls were disastrously poorly prepared. The calls were six to eight months late. The criteria or tenders for the invitation to tender have changed by 100%. Even some tenders changed during the invitation to tender. But if we know what the deadline is for some well-prepared project, then we know that time pressure is always there. But I do have an important, so model project that I have to tell you about today, water - Pomurje. We negotiated this and we all signed contracts with the Ministry of Environment and Space. After a few years, it was found that the Minister of Environment and Space had signed the wrong contracts. The data did not cover VAT and what must be included in these contracts. That's some bullshit. And these contracts have been cancelled, we are now slowly signing new ones, but this anomaly has brought us a few years without pure drinking water. It should also be noted with regret that it is unacceptable for the former government to have taken care of the last year of management only for the implementation of the projects obtained. In doing so, I would like to say that the drawers in which the projects should be ready for 2008 and 2009 are empty. So there are no projects ready. This is a vacuum that is now known and will continue to be known. But I want to stress one important thing. This means that if no projects have been prepared, they have been designed deliberately, then you really need to be "critified". Today, there is also a lot of talk about how much money has been left at the expense of the fact that in 2006, 2007 and so on, less has been absorbed. You say, yes, because you will have a chance in this period, 2010-2011, to draw more. It has to be said, today is a time of crisis, there is a great deal of financial burden, but for this part which is negotiated there is no exhaustion or projects. The financial share of the Republic of Slovenia should also be ensured. This means that there can be a public financial problem that is expected in this respect. That is why, unfortunately, respected friends of the former government will have to hang this pendant around your neck and not hang it from us. I was appalled earlier when I heard that the information system was barely in place. I don't know what that means. So if we try to cut into this thing a little bit, that means that there's no back data, what's been going on this year, a year ago, two, three, four. It is no wonder, therefore, that there is a suspicion that some projects that did not meet the criteria have received green light, but are, of course, out of fear that many of the funds will remain unspent, have been listed and allocated through a range of funds. It is no wonder, therefore, that colleagues within the committee insisted on the audit procedure to be carried out a few years ago. Because I have before me the material in which I write: "The State of Slovenia has identified 9 priority economic development logistics centres in the resolution on the national development project" and according to our data, only one of these nine regional development centres, namely Phoenix, has received funding. How's that? I can't do this together. And now, in the end, I'm interested in something. Just like everyone else. What does it take to make this pump better? There has been a lot of talk about what needs to be changed in terms of easier, faster, more successful drawing. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that documentation is simplified, of course within the EU criteria, otherwise it is not possible. Strengthen the preparation of projects, how, who, to which limits and so on. Of course, it must be said that at this point we have a structural fund, a European, a regional and a cohesion fund, and yes, we must say, at the structural level where we should be the best, we are at 25%, whether this is an ex-data, you will correct me. By already trying to assess that, according to the Minister's assurances, these criteria, which I have just talked about, which would accelerate pumping, are being prepared rapidly. I must admit that I have confidence in the current Minister for the very reason that she has also dealt with these things a few years ago and has been successful in her field. I hope that this pumping will also be successful. However, with these de facto de facto delimitations, I was saying: it is necessary to know exactly who has prepared something, who has not done their tasks, and who should. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mrs Bratuškova and the team, as well as all Members and Members. I support the debate on drawing on European funds from this point of view, because this is very important for development, for the faster step of Slovenia with Europe together. However, there is no way I can support the amendments, which ultimately say nothing about what they support or what they would like to achieve with these amendments. It's only right that we do this faster. We are talking today about how much money has been spent and how much money has not actually been exhausted. And I'm asking, how many new tables have been set up in these six months to see how successful you are. I'm sorry. You know, at least this table would be expected on Slovenian railways, on the second track, which is the most important in fact for the development of Slovenia to get rid of transit across Slovenia. I would also expect that there would actually be invitations to tender - there was no invitation to tender for technological equipment; for technological equipment, the call for funds was only extended. There was no new invitation to tender. You know, we've been talking here about how to help the economy, but we've only stayed in words, but the actions are still in drawers or somewhere far behind. I also need to touch local self-government. It is true that in your coalition contract you have written down that you will actually establish regions for local self-government or for congregations; for smaller municipalities, it is most important that you already have regions. For all these small congregations are by no means able to apply for the European invitation to tender. At the beginning of the year, I would expect you to have actual implementation of the regions that we all advocate. I don't think there's anyone in here who wouldn't defend the regions. I don't know, let's just settle some numbers. Maybe that'll be a good number. As I can see, there are 90 Members and we would like to have 90 regions because everyone in their region wants to live and work. Unfortunately, that's not how it works, and we're not going anywhere with these systems if we talk like this. Why are regions important? From this very point of view, I come from the Slovenian Mountains, and these municipalities do not yet have water. My friend's mayor would build a termite, unfortunately, he doesn't get a building permit just because of the lack of public water supply. These are the problems. We need to draw on and work on projects here so that we can draw on European funds. At times, you, now a very beautiful congregation, have been hindered by such things that I cannot possibly understand. Where in other congregations? Telecommunications, the phone, believe me, is something like a plane 100 years ago. We have to deal with these things in the regional area. It is true that it is not only these little things that I gave to the regions in some way; that is, for the region of Slovenske gorica, where so few municipalities have arisen. Here I see the importance; that regions arise and that the use of these funds will be much better and much faster. What is even more important is that we must shorten the deadlines for drawing on these European funds. We all know that actual investments need to be invested by banks, only later, after so long and so long can you get these European funds back. My colleague, Chernač, showed how many projects were carried out. It is true that many projects did not receive these funds, because good projects, perhaps just too little, did not reach enough points to actually see the light of day. It is also important that the preparation of these tenders takes 6 months. I don't know. It's six months from the rule of the new government. I don't know. This bureaucracy must be reduced if we are to be active. This is the biggest problem in Slovenia. And what else is the problem? We open up and we want to open up some other x agencies, and everyone with some kind of kindergarten wants to create some sort of fundraiser. Unfortunately, these are just camouflages, because most of them are collecting from you, various institutions that are preparing these projects, and so on. You need to know that the Slovenian Enterprise Fund at the Ministry of Small Economy has now had an invitation to tender to subsidise the credit rate. But the institutions that are preparing these projects want to have for such a project - say, 17,000 euros in co-financing, and these interest rates will come to 16,000 euros. What kind of entrepreneur or company is that stupid? He'd rather give the bank money because he's a partner with the bank than to some company that's anonymous, who's just into making projects like that. These are things that need to be prevented. These are things we need to do for faster pumping, more flexible pumping and active European funds. I could talk about these things for a long time, but I will give another word to each of you, to speak from the local and economic fields, to somehow get to know this issue all of us, although I do not think that today is the last debate and that there will be a lot of these discussions. However, I would like you not to wait for the European funds to be acquired, as long as we discuss them and forget the pumping. Let's help create a better Slovenia! We live in it. You can't live from the beauty of nature. For this, there must be good people who think positively and positive suggestions that we must all take together for better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. We have already discussed the exact same subject with the same content at the 3rd regular meeting, on 4 March this year, entitled'revenue of European funds in Slovenia', prepared by the National Assembly Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. This debate was held for five hours and six minutes. We have also adopted a package of conclusions, which I think were good and good and must also be implemented in the next period. It hasn't been two months since the opposition came with a similar content. Let me not be blamed by the shadow crisis superintendent for all the issues, but on his committee led by him, for the supervision of public finances, but began this debate again. It's about doubling this debate. At that time, the Commission could be involved in this debate for the supervision of public finances as an interested working body and would have been able to draw up its own materials and perhaps alternative conclusions in the context of the 3rd regular session. Thus, for several hours now, we have been dealing with the exact same content and I do not think it is good that we are wasting time on the same problems, although they are very important. I think that with those six conclusions we adopted in March this year, we have shown how to better draw European funds in Slovenia. Nevertheless, I will point out some problems which, in my opinion, make it difficult to draw on European funds. In particular, I would like to reiterate the issue of fund-raising in large infrastructure projects. If we look only at the area of road infrastructure, we have not yet prepared spatial documents and new road routes within the framework of the 3, 3a and 4 development axes. Since 2005 there has been no new state road infrastructure in the field of road infrastructure on these priority development axes, although the previous government has already adopted a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 and, in the framework of these projects, a project to modernise the state road network on priority development axes. Nothing has been done within the mandate of the previous government to draw funds from the EU under this point that I have just read. Therefore, in the third package of measures and the adjustment of economic policy due to the deterioration of the economic situation, this government proposed to amend legislation in the area of spatial planning, space regulation, construction of buildings, land acquisition, public procurement and installation permits. This could significantly accelerate the deployment of line State infrastructure projects in the field of transport and energy infrastructure, as there are currently insufficient building permits available, as well as state spatial plans, almost to draw on the European funds provided in the 2007-2013 financial perspective. The government also set a deadline for implementation, which is September 1, 2009. I sincerely hope that with this package of legislative changes in this area, the Government will reach this deadline in the National Assembly and that the National Assembly will adopt this legislation as soon as possible, so that we can shorten these deadlines, which are in practice six years at the optimum pace, without any civil initiatives and so on. If, for example, there are other civil initiatives or different views of individual local communities and municipalities when moving individual roads into the space, as in the case of the highway past Radovljica and the motorway past Trebnje, this may also take 10 to 13 years. If I do not change this legislation very quickly, then we can say good-bye to drawing European funds for the 3rd and 4th development axes, so I really hope that the government will come as soon as possible with these changes in the laws in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The use of European funds is very important for the development of infrastructure, as well as for the economy in our country. The appropriations allocated for the period 2007-2013 amount to €4.1 billion, which amounts to €300 per capita at annual level, twice as much as for the period 2004-2006. This increased the possibility of co-financing in local community projects. Up until now, discussions on the issue of European funds have given us some hope that funds will draw on the dynamics that have been set in motion and that policy has been unified, but we see that it is not what we expect. There are a number of reasons that hinder us from making effective use of funds, including difficult bureaucratic procedures. We are constantly being accompanied by insufficient good ideas, poorly prepared projects, and often poor governance, delays in the preparation and execution of calls, all of which are reflected in in the inefficient use of funds. The European Union is funding only solutions consistent with policies and guidelines that help to achieve the objectives set out in its official documents. One of these is blackmail in vineyards and, consequently, the freezing of assets to complete the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway. Ignorance of these facts is also one of the reasons why many projects, which are good, do not have support and do not come to life. In the context of the economic crisis, the importance of the effective use of European funds is even greater. All existing projects should be included and all stakeholders should be mobilised to achieve the objectives set. When preparing projects, it is necessary to bet on experienced experts, as only with such personnel can we move from crisis as winners. The economic crisis in Europe has turned into a political crisis, a signal to us in some way that species need to be unified and to be resolved in favour of our economy, which is 70% export-related and to a large extent also dependent on foreign suppliers. The 2007-2013 programming period is in the implementation phase and therefore an appropriate approach to the planning and allocation of European funds is key to achieving results and objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today we are discussing again the important topic of how to draw as successfully as possible from the European Union's financial perspective. The theme is therefore so much more important because we are in a time of crisis and any financial injection would be very welcome for our economy. At this point, I would like to point out that today I have seen the news, that even the European Union may be at risk of liquidity, perhaps on individual chapters or items. It was said that the payment of the pensions of those European Members who were insured under their scheme was at risk because it was not in line with the money. So it can also happen that, in line with the European perspective, there may not be any money for a certain period of time. To shed light on the story, we must go back to the time when we accepted this financial perspective. In the National Assembly, the opposition of that time wanted us to hurry as quickly as possible. The current Secretary-General of the Government was very excited about the Luxembourg proposal, which brought change in view of what are then, in particular, the newly present countries, namely the ten who maintained calm blood and nerves until the last moment and achieved very positive results during the English Presidency. Thus, a considerable number has been opened for Slovenia or a considerable amount of funds have been made available in the coming years. This was at the time of the previous government, when at least the way to the richly lined table was open. The current government, however, has plenty of time to correct past errors if they were, or to make sure that it draws as much money as possible or that it brings home as possible from this rich - covered table. Of course, there have been a number of problems here that arise in the use of funds. One is certainly the complexity of the tendering procedures, which I think is intended, that this is a filter, that there is not too much desire for the Union and that projects really need to be well prepared. From the experience of the local congregation, I know that one project, when the documentation was compiled into a pile, was exactly one metre tall and, nevertheless, careful auditors in the Union found inconsistencies. In two papers, for a few euros, the cents "cut" and sent the documentation back to supplementation or harmonisation. Therefore, the preparation of the tender documentation itself is extremely complicated and difficult. Therefore, at this point, it would point to the conclusion that in the Government, the relevant ministries may be in favour of setting up a group to help prepare this documentation. It was said that the invitations were running late. Perhaps there is some logic in this, because it is just a demanding project, a harmonisation between larger institutions, but I am aware or I think that, although they are late, we can still catch hands. The problem also arises in the preparation of own resources, in the provision of own resources. They are now at a crossroads here, when we find out if there is no own funds, their own participation. Now, however, the Government is preparing a whole bunch of rehabilitation projects and, in my opinion or in the opinion of a large number of people in this Chamber, the funds are earmarked for purely other, less profitable, less promising matters. This creates a problem even within the coalition when some of these conflicts have come to the public in the last week. It is open to question or finance, questionable to divergently divergently buy-ins of businesses, or to allocate funds to successfully pull out European funds. Because the projects we can successfully carry out through Europe are projects that would give a big boost to the economy. There may be construction projects here, but it would be worth considering a certain direction. Because projects where as much domestic material as possible would be spent, as much domestic knowledge as possible - in construction we know that the labour force is mainly from elsewhere - especially such projects, which then restore funds to the budget through exploitation. One such project is certainly energy, which we will also discuss tomorrow. Energy is certainly such an area in view of Slovenia's commitments in recent years to reducing emissions. In the field of energy, therefore, it would be an opportunity to draw on resources and to introduce environmentally friendly alternative forms of energy. The next challenge to be accepted and tackled is broadband Internet. In view of the fact that funds are also available in agriculture, it is desirable, or is envisaged, to bring broadband to rural areas. Because if I just look at the home environment, they're almost pushing into their arms different distributors of threesomes, twins, connections and so on in a densely populated area, in a rural area, and maybe in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we still have an outdated phone and a twin, we're just dreaming about a threesome. This way we are somewhat handicapped and second-rate citizens, because in the field of communication there will be more and more services: e-government, e-waiting types in the doctor, e-ordering medicines, as well as saying in the entertainment area, say, television, video on demand. This should be accessible to the widest possible population and could lead to this network by means of the European Union. But I would warn you that this network then returns the money, because monthly payment is required. This approach reminds me of Rockefeller, as he secured a monopoly on the sale of kerosene in China, - but the Chinese were given petrol and investment, or this gift was soon paid off. The same would be true of the Internet. Communal infrastructure is undernutrition and we will soon begin to receive reminders from the European Union, either for sewerage, cleaning facilities - 2018 will soon be. There are some things that need to be arranged here. We destroy too little biodegradable waste by incineration and so on. The funds are available, the projects are running late, the pumping is running late. In transport: railway as the colleague has already mentioned and development axes. Some developmental axes have already started to work, but civil initiatives have been rejected for political reasons of the domestic environment. The fourth development axis is made by two bypasses, one is now on "stand-by", probably by the end of the year when they will obtain the last permits. On the fourth development axis, however, we still have a great task open to us as to how to get from the Polish Valley to Idrija-Cerkljansko. But the rest is more or less clean. All you have to do is prepare projects and start drawing on funds. Finally, I would only add that it really shows how to speed up pumping, that is, the professional services preparing the documentation, the rapid response to calls and, of course, in the budget, provide the necessary resources, either for the operation of these professional services or for the share that Slovenia has. Thus, we find in the congregations that the state owes to the municipalities. For example, our bishop owes four million dollars because she's betting on the share she's supposed to get from Brussels right now, and she doesn't get it because things are running late. And there are more of these congregations, and this is a major problem because the liquidity of the congregations is being questioned. I can't deal with the fact that I don't think the coalition can either, because it's leaking out that coalition parties don't agree with it. I support this dilemma myself, because it certainly does not show that we are lending Taiwanese credits, but that there are development projects that already need to be accelerated so that we can really draw the funds from this fund of European funds to the fullest extent possible. I would like to point out that after 2013, we will be faced with developments at such a pace that we fall under the net of payers if nothing else happens. It is desirable that these funds be used up as best we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. With regard to the drawing-up of European funds, I believe that the biggest error that occurred in the previous mandate should be highlighted and is, in fact, linked to the change in the tolling system. Indeed, at this point we have put at risk 200 million euro of resources that we could draw, but we cannot, even though we have prepared projects, the investments are flowing. There is a very large question as to how this could have occurred and whether the real interest of the party could be predominant to the interests of the country or the need to draw development resources from the EU. Another important issue that also concerns the operation of individual departments, especially the Ministry of the Environment, during this period, is that it is incomprehensible that the Ministry, which places infrastructure facilities in a space at the same location where it places infrastructure in a space, expands Natura 2000 and thus makes it impossible to place investment in space. This is some kind of Babylon that you find difficult to understand, and with all these facts we have encountered in the period beyond us. It is no wonder that we have not absorbed everything that has been planned and that development does not take place as we wanted it to. This is particularly problematic in today's situation when we find that, in fact, the fresh capital at our disposal and also the debt that we obviously also need to use to an increasing extent to help both the financial and the real sector will by no means be available, so that we can, of course, also through our own resources, effectively ensure participation and thus increase the absorption of European funds. In short, a mistake, as in vignettes, also occurs in the part of the debt. We note that even here Slovenia will not be able to provide its own resources as successfully as it would if we provided them with absolutely no problems in an area where we can have our own source of funding. In fact, the low price of semi-annual and annual vignettes, as it has been determined, is one of the actions that makes it impossible for the money you receive through the use of individual infrastructure to be allocated for the payment of credits, for the continuation of construction. But no, the decision was political, narrow political, party and today we can ask again whether we can even provide sufficient funds for all European projects. Of course, I also support the amendment to the fourth decision, which speaks of the need to draw more effectively on European funds in operational programmes and programmes for the development of environmental, transport, highway infrastructure, optical networks, railway infrastructure, energy facilities. Perhaps only in some of these chapters, which I am referring to, and this amendment also wishes to expose them in particular. For example, the fact is that we have prepared projects on the optical network, including the procedures for the broadcasting of works, but it does not happen to the act by which we distribute resources so that the investment can run out. It is also the task of the current government to really speed up this process, because projects are ready, it is necessary to reach a conclusion so that funds can be drawn up. With regard to environmental infrastructure, it thinks that as much science and art as we do in managing municipal waste and also in building cleaning plants, you do not meet the sewage network far. Because no matter how much you agree to put the facility in space, we still wonder how and by what procedure these projects could be prepared to this stage, so that the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy can issue a decision or conclusion that this investment could be made. Incomprehensible events that will really need to be resolved as soon as possible and brought to this stage, so that the service can start issuing conclusions and, of course, allow ourselves to carry out the procedures necessary for investment to actually begin in space. But I think there's also an important fact. We also have European resources for Natura 2000. If we look at the use of these funds, we find it's close to zero. What is designed or used to produce a prospectus is, of course, far from what we need. I note this only because we are always listening to how this is developed, how this is a development opportunity for Slovenia, which has more than 35% of the area in Natura, but we are not able to draw on practical serious money, because it is simply not possible to put serious development projects and serious development ideas into this environment. In short, one of the difficult issues that we may not be able to resolve in a short time. However, the fact is that we need to accelerate at least those projects that are already in place and to complete procedures as soon as possible so that the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy can start issuing conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief. The debate is certainly interesting, but it does fail when one side tries to prove all the sins of the other side. This was also the aim of the debate first in order to demonstrate the excellence of the previous action. It continued by demonstrating that not all the options offered by the financial perspective and European funds were used at the time. This would advise the Government and perhaps Parliament to take a trip to Spain. Spain is probably one of all European countries that has best pumped and built the whole infrastructure with European funds. Slovenia is one of the countries that has made the worst use of these options, which the Court of Auditors has also proved to us. But it's not about finding out who did it. The fact is, we are all responsible for the poor functioning of the system. By the way, since there was no colleague of Cveta, I would like to comment earlier on the fact that we wanted our Minister's resignation. That is not true, it has been said about the official structure, in particular the official structure that comes from the previous mandate and which has prepared the information that we have received. Well, a little speculation was unnecessary. The fact is that today, when we identify the sins and shortcomings of the previous mandate, we do not want to present the previous government as an absolute sinner - and also the previous minister - but we want the current government to learn from those mistakes. I hope that this will also happen, because we have great opportunities, the possibility that when we finally regionalise ourselves and when we get to the provinces, we will also know smartly and effectively draw on the resources that we cannot now; also because we are acting as a country and also in all those programmes that are borderline or cross-border, of course we are acting as a country with all the constraints that the country has against the strong countries in the neighbourhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u186	Well welcomed, Mr. President and everyone else present. In 2007 and 2008, European funds also began to be used for projects at the level of municipalities, at least in our area. However, the situation arose that, for construction companies, there was suddenly a lot of demand, including by the state, for motorways, apartments, hospitals and with mutual agreements, constructionists held a high price for the construction of buildings such as roads, sewerage, cleaning plants, plumbing and the like. As a result, the projects were more expensive than planned by the municipality and were therefore more burdened by the municipal budget. More than that, time pressure has done its part. Projects had to be planned quickly if they were not already in stock. The tenders were only in June and it was necessary to have approved financial requirements by the end of September, saying that the facilities had to be largely completed so that the cash flow could then be reversed by the end of the year. However, I must point out that the former Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy has done his pioneering work and has put the drawing of funds on track. The current Minister is also very confident, and we expect a new call for proposals soon when the municipalities also report new projects to be a good choice and projects that will have greater weight will be implemented. So they're going to be more necessary and make more sense. Even the construction work is no longer flourishing so that we can do more for the same money. However, there is a problem with the congregations that are partly in debt, from which they will take the funds to co-finance. This can once again endanger pumping, as we have heard many times today. Public tendering should also be simplified to make it easier to run for projects. Monitoring the implementation of projects also needs to be simplified. It happened that a project was financed from two titles, according to the Regional Development Fund and Article 21 for the financing of municipalities, and then the same people, real supervisors, came to control the same project twice and, of course, the process stalled, in particular, the return of funds. I hope that the Government will leave the Ministry or the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the regional policy of competence and means to improve the flow of calls and return of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State with the team. Once again, I have somehow confirmed that politics is possible art. On the one hand, you are Members or Members who claim that there was a surplus in the national budget in 2007 and that the use of European money was more than excellent and on the other hand we are Members or Members who claim that there was no surplus in the national budget in 2007 and that the use of European money was not the best. And, of course, we rely on these claims, both on the position and conclusions of the European Commission and on the basis of the Court of Auditors' audit report, and on independent supervisory institutions in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and in person, we have always given something. Thus, if we respect the rule of law, we must also respect the conclusions or conclusions and decisions of independent institutions in our country. The reason for today's debate on the issue of European funds drawback is the Court of Auditors' audit report on the European Union funds in the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia's 2007 State Budget, by which the Court of Auditors wanted to respond to questions about the transparency of the presentation of the funds received and paid into the European budget. However, it has not set or set itself the goal of measuring efficiency and prudence, which I think would be absolutely necessary. In the Republic of Slovenia, we did not have, but I hope that we have, today, a transparent and comprehensive data monitoring system, not only on tides, but also on outflows to the European budget, which would also serve in some way to analyse or assess the situation, to manage policies and measures in this area. In my view, it is at least as important as pumping and height in the current period, also that the Government makes a thorough analysis and review of the development priorities that have been adopted, whether they are still real or not, those which, in the context of the economic and financial crisis, raise both technological developments in our country and generate economic growth and create new jobs. In view of this conclusion, I think it is good that the new government has taken some time to make these analyses and has proposed or implemented a number of measures to achieve these objectives. You wonder if the government will be able to make use of European money. I'm sure she'll know him better than you did in your previous term. However, it would be much easier if some of the projects that you have put into the national strategy of those major projects, which are somewhat over 30, were prepared in the same way as it would be appropriate to obtain European money for these projects. You are talking about the inactiveness of the current or new government, in this connection also the new minister. I said earlier that the new Minister or team and the Government had made a thorough analysis and had taken several measures in order to achieve better targets in drawing on European money, both in the area of adequate planning, in my view, in the 2009 balance of the state budget, in this area, those projects that will also be implemented. In previous years, this consumption was planned at such a level that we then had a realization below 10%. It has already done much to reduce administrative barriers and to optimise the drawing system and to improve the uniformity and transparency of procedures in drawing European money. What bothers me most in this debate is the stories about how many tables we have in Slovenia, and that this is the criterion for the use of European money. I am concerned that if we think this way that the number of tables is the one that tells us how we draw on European money, then something is wrong with us. We need to look at what is behind these boards: what are the projects, what will these projects bring in terms of technological development, opening up new jobs, and also in facilitating the current economic and financial crisis. However, if I touch on some of the operational programmes that you are talking about that they have been well implemented and that the use has been very good in this area. Let us look at the operational programme in the field of the environment. We can only hope that the European Commission will be ours after 15. 7. Not to be overlooked and not to be subject to heavy penalties for the non-implementation of this operational programme. I hope that the new government, with a good new operational programme, will convince the European Commission that the objectives set in this area will not be achieved by July 2009, but in the coming years and will build all the regional centres, both first and second. Almost nothing has been done in this area, only one regional centre has all the permits, and this is a regional centre in Celje. I do not argue that this is only within the power of the Government, the ministries; here also local communities are involved and there are many problems in this area. But if we look at it, we all wanted it when the country's legislation was in the process to have the province's seat. Nobody or rarely wants to take on environmental responsibility and build a regional waste management centre in the area of its local community, as it is appropriate. The area of traffic. It's been a long time. What have we done about the development axis? Did we put any development axis in space? None! Look, I'm like a Member coming out of the ambush environment, I want a third development axis in the sense that it will somehow reduce the developmental difference between our environment and that we will get the provinces. There was little or no history here, but problems are similar to those mentioned earlier in the field of the environment. What you always stress is an operational programme for the development of regions. Let me tell you again how this story took place in 2007. I know that a national reference framework was adopted in June to adopt operational programmes from mid-June until the end of November and we started one project before the operational programme was approved, an operational programme for the development of the regions, as the call for proposals was published - see these dates! The invitation to tender was published on 1.6.2007. The deadline for submission of applications was 26.6.2007. The opening of applications was carried out on 2.7.7. The decision of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy on appropriations has been sent to the local community, you will not believe it, 29.8.2007! It had to be concluded with 30.9. And after 30.9 came the control. Let me know how well this invitation was prepared. Not to say that the criteria have changed in the middle! In order to take account of only the projects adopted in the regional development programmes first, projects weighing more than EUR 600,000 were no longer available. And that's why we have so many tables that you will know, so we have so many tables in Slovenia! And I'm not sure all these projects are the best, unfortunately not. And I am not sure that we have reduced regional differences through the use of these funds in the previous mandate. I'm afraid we've increased them. We could talk a lot about this area, but I think we've said a lot in March and today. I think it is more important that we focus on having more European money in terms of development, technological breakthrough and job creation in Slovenia in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that it is already so familiar with the hour and that much has been said on the issue of drawing European funds, it might give a little more attention to this way of removing administrative obstacles. In the last mandate, the government announced many actions, and in particular an effective monitoring of the action plan and plan to effectively monitor the removal of administrative barriers. Administrative barriers are, after the conclusion of the various experts, including experts who have dealt with this topic in Europe, because this is a problem that has somehow been transposed or acquired its domestic right in Europe and is transferred to Slovenia through various regulations and directives. It was a happy story and talked about it, and it also worked intensively in 2007, 2008. However, when these action plans are to somehow start to monitor and identify the effectiveness of monitoring and addressing these administrative obstacles, which are actually the last and most important obstacles to the absorption of funds that actually impede all NGOs, and also those smaller entities that do not have the resources and not the money to hire expensive agencies for different calls, it is found that not much is done in this area. I also ask this government how much energy it intends to invest in this area, because this is an important area, because without the elementary elimination of administrative barriers, of course very large. You know, if one invitation to tender is 148 pages long and if these 148 pages have not been received in time, you have time to complete it with all the content elements, just one week, it is a real impossibility of each individual to participate equally and equally in the acquisition and withdrawal of these funds. That's the first one. Second and further chapter, which is most important. I looked at Findi.si and I looked at how many associations have written on this topic and how many associations have actually adopted concrete action plans. I also asked some of you how and how these action plans were monitored. What monitoring, what evaluation methods and what proposals they made or if they made any proposals or whether the competent ministries and the Government, last but not least, asked them if they had any proposals. But you know, communication on this level was low. Not much of a change lately, either. And because this is my government, because these are my ministers, the secretaries of state that I know and believe in and trust in them, I expect you to have so much responsibility and so much will to do this very difficult work. The work is really difficult because it is one disease, one virus that we have taken from Europe, which is actually in this area, one would say, 10 years of mastery and then find that this masterpiece did not have the results that they expected. And to avoid actually a complex virus eating us too, it is worth investing so much energy that these administrative obstacles, in due course, certainly not overnight, but gradually eliminate them. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u191	Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Lois Posedel, he's giving up. Mr. Anton Anderlich, he's giving up. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem - it is not. Mr. France Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. This debate is very interesting, although it is second time, but it has another connotation. I must say that this issue is also often faced by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We have the custom of being beautiful or ugly to go on the field once a month, visiting places, visiting congregations, listening to people about their problems, and somehow exchanging different opinions about the problems that both the state and the local community are dealing with. And I have to say, everywhere -- colleagues, everywhere! - is the first topic of drawing on European funds; the first topic per municipality, for all mayors; pumping problem, project problem, placement problem, etc. We are all aware that the congregations themselves were too small, mostly except urban ones, to plan for themselves, to represent their own project, to finance themselves, to regulate all these things that follow. Since we have no provinces, it must take over and have a state, a ministry. And here everyone complains in a row that there are a number of administrative obstacles. Just as a colleague earlier said it was the original sin of all problems. That's how they experience it. Last month we were in Dolenjska and the main problem was the project of rehabilitation or ecological rehabilitation of the river Krka. And there were cases when the mayor showed clearly: "Look, we already have a project made, the cleaning plant has already been placed in the space, we have a construction permit, everything, we also provided municipal funds as co-financing, we came to the Ministry, what with this for two years they've promised us, we've come, yes, everything's fine, you just go, maybe you're already in the post office waiting for the contract." They came home, waited a week, a month, nothing, back again. Yeah, there's no time. Not to be mistaken, it was in the previous government. Then we said, "What now?" That's what we've been talking about this month. Yeah, we've already tried, but we don't get to people, people have changed, and we're going to explain everything, fight, and again from the beginning. Gentlemen, the European funds drawback project, the European communication project is a major project that goes beyond one government that goes beyond party relations, that is a national issue. So it bothers me, now that you're still on about these things for six months after the elections with only one wish: criticizing how the previous government has done everything wrong, how it is to blame. You're no longer in the opposition, and that's what the opposition is doing. Seriously, be a government party for once, be aware that these are problems that go beyond party matters. Nor can we, as the opposition, be critical of all things. But you as a government coalition, yet you are a government coalition and you spend all the time, most of the time just criticizing what Janša did, what was wrong. It wasn't all wrong in the previous government. And there's nothing wrong with this one, because it's not all black and white. I mean, that's a problem the new government has to face. If anything is wise, and if you detect errors in the previous government, learn not to repeat this mistake. If you make the same mistakes again, you'll be worse than us. If you are not better, then the second year, when one financial year is behind us, you will hear great criticism. Of course you will if you're not better than us. I do not want to be such a Member that, next year, with poor results, perhaps this year in your government, I will smile with pleasure and sadistic laughter and criticise how much worse results you have in drawing on European funds. No, no, no. I want you to be able to boast and we'll all be happy. And if we didn't pump everything last year, of course we didn't, of course we could do more. But we did not sit with our hands crossed, and there was much to be gained. If we didn't, what's left last year, you'd be pumping now that we're in crisis, if we could maybe pump it all up, but you'd say, you haven't left us anything for bad times, the years of fat cows are over, you've picked it all up, and now we're out of reserve. No, no, no. Now you have more to do. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, these are projects that go beyond one government, which go beyond party divisions and, please, let us press together on the Government or encourage it to solve all of these things that have proven to be bad. Administrative obstacles and the fact that we have not established provinces, ladies and gentlemen in the previous term will be a long time. It will be a long time before we draw on European funds. I hope that the Government will not withdraw from its plans, but we will approach the formation of the provinces. For it was said to be a third development axis, that it had not yet been placed in space. Yeah, how do you put it? Whether the Government should order from above against the will of individual municipalities and place it in a room. He can't. One congregation itself can be against and will not be placed. Only a province, as an institution that decides with the majority of votes and can overrun any opinion of an individual municipality, can carry out such a project. If we do not all think about the results of this and the necessary solutions to these problems at all levels, from administrative barriers, to the establishment of an intermediate level between the municipality and the country, we do not feel well. So, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I expect the government coalition to act in a state-efficient manner, and of course also from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u193	Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Even today, we are witnessing a very strange tactic of the government, when after five, six hours of discussion, the debate is still unused for an hour and cannot answer any statement of any statement made by any Member in the National Assembly. I think that this approach of the Government, when we consider such important topics as we do today, and also yesterday, when we have considered the Single Monetary Aid Act, tells us a lot about the Government's willingness to confront itself in direct communication with members of the National Assembly, the opposition and the coalition, because also coalition Members probably say many times in their discussions what they do not hold, which does not have the basis in the documents and in the information provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to point out that it has been incredibly difficult to place this item on the agenda of the National Assembly, even though the Commission for Budgetary Control has adopted a decision to hold a plenary session of the National Assembly to address these points. The signatories to the request for consideration of the item on the Commission were Members of the coalition groups. 50 votes in this National Assembly were in favour of this decision, which was imposed and placed on the agenda. However, when it was necessary to decide on this and when the Government's material was obtained to discuss this in plenary session of the National Assembly, this support for coalition parties was lacking. 50 votes collectively against this item being discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. However, although the Commission is the only one to deal with the Court of Auditors' reports and the only one to propose or propose such reports for consideration at the plenary session of the National Assembly, this was not appropriate. In view of the fact that, at the request of the Commission, the Government has provided material which fully detracts from the references to the urgent session of the Commission for the control of the budget and other public finances, this decision of the coalition Members is likely to be understandable. For it is difficult to face at the plenary session of the National Assembly, that what you have stated in your request for a meeting is not true. According to the data provided by the coalition government, this government does not cover these claims and do not match. Although it has been written and written that Slovenia is weak in drawing on European funds, the Commissioner at a recent meeting with our Minister confirmed that it is Slovenia; the Commissioner of the European Commission; confirmed that Slovenia is among the most successful members in the field of European funds. The Commissioner confirmed this, unburdened by the political situation in the National Assembly, unburdened by who the coalition is and who the opposition is. Unburdened with that. But here we are constantly faced with the consideration of this, with the consideration of points in the National Assembly and also in the working bodies, as we continue to try to prove to someone that the previous government, the previous coalition in this area, and also in all other areas, has not been successful. Here, too, the coalition had the opportunity to take a corrective exam already this year to improve those bad indicators, the bad forecasts entered into the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, when we adopted the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year, about a month ago, it was precisely in the area of European funds that a substantial reduction was proposed, which means that the coalition deliberately gave up the development projects of Slovenia, the development projects of local communities, in order to give up available and approved funds. And it also says that this government has failed to improve the mechanisms on the basis of which the so-called bad results of its predecessor could significantly improve and bring about significantly higher resources to Slovenia than the previous government. It is incomprehensible that the coalition has focused so much power and energy on trying to tell citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, voters and voters that Janez Janša's government has not been successful in this and other areas. At the same time, the same team that launched this process was not in a position to fix the proposal to improve anything in this area, no, proposed solutions that are significantly worse and significantly lower mainly in the rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. Nothing, as we have heard, has changed in the area of tendering. Tenders are crucial to enable stakeholders, local communities and other stakeholders to apply and run for European funding. The situation is the same as it was a year ago. Those tenders, which were then called for, are still only those tenders and no invitation to tender has been issued in the field of European funds drawn up by that Government or by that coalition from 23 November 2008 until today, 23 April. The only thing we face is permanent criticism. For five months, this government also has before it the Resolution on Development Programmes 2007-2023. There has been a lot of talk today from members of the ruling coalition, how unrealistic these documents are, how this document has some projects that will not be feasible, which are not suitable, which are too powerful, which are too extensive, which are inadequate for some environments. However, in the five months of this book, no one has taken this resolution into their own hands. No one has read it, nor has anyone proposed any discussions on these projects, which were, by the way, all confirmed and proposed from local environments. No one has proposed any change. Interesting. Everyone is saying how bad this is, and none of those who say it have proposed any project with which this document, which is a strategic development document, would be corrected. Interesting, interesting. This shows that in this area, somehow, they have not matured a new idea, that no debate has been held with the local environment to check whether these projects are still crucial for individual future regional centres and regions. Interesting. We'd expect anyone to take criticism and come up with criticism to propose something first. To first propose a solution to first propose the idea of proposing a project and then, on the basis of this comparison, to determine whether or not to suggest that it had not been so good before. Here we face the absence of all this. There are no further ideas, no additional incentives, no new solutions, no new proposals, only the technique remains to be criticised first what was done in the previous mandate. You know, when they changed -- as an example, I say -- the old and the new director who took over the business from the old director, the old director handed out three letters to the new director. Somehow he said to him, "When you have problems for the first time, take the first letter. When the problems occur the second time, take the second letter, and when the problems occur the third time, open and read what is written in the third letter." And when this director first faced problems, he actually opened his first letter. And it said, "When problems arise, criticize your predecessor." And that's exactly what he did. In time, he opened a second letter on the advice of his experienced predecessor. He wrote, suggested, and carried out the reorganisation. And then, temporarily, things move again for a while, and things are being solved in some other way. People are being diverted. In the third letter; I don't think we've gotten there yet; what was written in the third letter might have been said another time. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We can, too, see how many times and when it will be known. [[...]] But actually, we're here now to deal with the first letter. In fact, nothing has been done this mid-year that would not have been linked to the criticism of the previous government. That's all there is to it. Even those Members who voted so cheerfully for the rebalancing of European funds when, let's say, only for the area of Dolenjska, New Town, the items fell in only two positions by around €8 million were most pleased when they were able to keep an item in the budget of €50,000. It was amazing what a joy it was for people, Members of the National Assembly who had succeeded. Unbelievable. Before that, however, they were dissatisfied and critical of the previous government because it provided, say, 8 million euros for these projects. What a dissension. And I regret that all the debates in the National Assembly are in fact aimed only at criticising the predecessors. We as the opposition party in this mandate expect new incentives, new ideas, new projects, we expect the government to come with solutions. Unfortunately, criticism is coming, there is no solution, but crisis meetings are in order, crisis talks are in order, complications are being solved, commissions are being set up and so on. But all the problems remain, not only do they stay, problems get worse every day. I hope you start working as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u195	Does the representative of the government want another word? Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words and instructions. That's what I'd say. Such frequent and long-standing debates on cohesion policy, on the absorption of cohesion funds, are useful and welcome to us who work in this area daily. We always attend, listen, and, of course, answer questions that make sense. If I do an analysis of the operation in the previous period first, I won't talk about governments. I'm talking about analysis of the situation, pumping and working in the previous period. Our service gave accurate data, numerical data. We're behind those, because the numbers are what they are. But the analysis we did showed us something else. That it's not all in numbers. Of course, there are also many things in the quality, evaluation, quality and planning of these projects in the future. But here is where the problems that we are correcting now have proved to be. A number of problems, among other projects that should end under contracts in 2008, are several hundred, we are transferring them to realisation in 2009. It is said that everything did not go smoothly and everything was not just as ideal that there were no bad points. What I mean is that we learn from these bad points. We're going to get good practice and we're going to get it. What was problematic, of course, is taken as a maximum in our work to improve this work. One of these, of course, is planning. The plan must be realistic. We will no longer be in the situation that we will be the ones in the European family who are far from the most in terms of how real something has been planned. We're planning the real thing, and I think that's a good thing. If the plans are realistic, of course, projects can also be closer to reality. And what we want is to really do what is planned and what is ultimately accepted as a project. Let me tell the government how closely he's monitoring this area. From the special thematic session of the Government, to the fact that there is virtually no government meeting where this issue would not be discussed. Because it's so important. And as a result, a lot of things are happening in this area. It's huge. You may not see them because there is also a system that has previously been weak at some points, and that is why there have been these problems that we have now, when we are transferring projects, when we do not know whether projects can be implemented or not, because there may have been a number of things that may have been done quickly and without specific accompanying instructions and, of course, monitoring and reviewing projects so that there are no such derogations as have occurred. What have we done in this area? First of all, there's a lot of work to do on this simplification in this area. It is said that it is easier to get to European funds. How to simplify both calls and, of course, what follows the contract, when the project begins to develop, but still in the spirit of what our and also the European acquis require of us. But these simplifications are quite significant. Not only in our country, because we know that Europe is also slowing down these bureaucratic, difficult administrative obstacles, we would sometimes say. And that's what we do, I think. And this will now be known by the first calls, which will come in different ways. As far as the invitations are concerned. Certainly, if the invitation to tender is made available to applicants or beneficiaries for a very short period of time to report the project and then to carry it out, we have decided to make announcements of projects, announcements of tenders in which interested parties can already see the direction in which they will need to prepare and what documentation they need to do so. Thus, when the call is made, many things can and will probably be better prepared. Second change. It is also because of the time in which we, in the changes, are, of course, also thinking about changes within operational programmes. Maybe there's two ways. One is when within the IP we listen in a flexible way to some things to harmonise without having to go into proceedings before the European Commission. For more fundamental changes, of course, the procedure is much longer and the managing authority will be the one to propose to the Supervisory Committee and this to the European Commission. And we will change these operational programmes in this direction in order to adapt to today's time and needs. Our domestic regulation on the implementation of procedures for drawing on European funds is also at this very time, in final coordination, and will in fact bring many but, indeed, many improvements to those working under this Regulation. As far as the establishment of the information system is concerned, which is also fully linked to the payment requests and later to the claims for reimbursement, I must say so - because someone had previously questioned whether the information system had really not been established before. We have an ISAR system that started to develop, and I think in 1999 it's like an information system that's supposed to cover this area. After 2004, he kind of died. While some modules have been operated by individual sectors or ministries, the basic information system as such has stood. It stood until April 2008, when a new treaty was concluded and it had just begun to prepare for this system of information to be amended where it could be done. Above all, to adapt it to the information systems we already have and which cover finances in this state administration, these are mainly EFERAC and also ISPA, and this is a great effort and this is a great deal of work. That the architecture of this information system can be adapted so much that we can use it all, that the flow between this system and the financial system will be smooth, that they will run at all. We've practically done a lot of work here. There's a lot going on, and some going on. But these things, what I'm about to say to you, they're getting rid of each other every day and every week, we're moving on in these things, so no one's sleeping. The news is also next. We're going to advance. Advances will be available when the contract is signed, up to 30%. This is a matter that will, of course, make it easier for many and many people to use these funds. In addition to advances, we will also be able to pay some costs after the flat-rate, say up to 20% of the whole project. Steps in defining VAT as a eligible cost have been taken. We also have a feeling that we may succeed. What is important is that in the plan, in the shortest, near future, the development agencies or agencies that we have by region, we intend to consolidate and give them the value and the tasks for which they were established. Currently, there are a lot of problems at the status level, from private to public, these agencies. If I go any further, as far as the invitations are concerned. It's not true that there's no invitation to tender. A number of calls are under way, some of which have already been announced in this government's mandate, if we want to talk like that, but I might say, in this year and some of the funds have already been granted. Let me just say what the point was made to the fact that on the operational programme of environment and transport the situation is exactly the same as it was at the end of the year. That's not true. Right now, we've got the approved 144 million and we've got 40 million. This is for Ljubljana for waste management and for Škofja Loka for the bypass. These things are moving. Of course, within four, five months, everything can't move, but it's a lot to move. The philosophy of us who work here has also been moved to try to get close to both the intermediate bodies and the beneficiaries to help them. There'll be more and more. We are aware that these are complex procedures, that NGOs in particular are likely to be difficult to follow, and here we see our task of preparing and providing assistance for these actions. When I listened to your discussions, there were a lot of direct comments, or direct advice, which, of course, we always welcome. Mr Trofenik, I think he was talking about the political criteria for the allocation of funds. What I can ensure is that we will distribute the funds according to the quality of the projects. And there's something else I'd like to say when we're on the projects. What happened to us, that hundreds of projects with a contract have already been defined, so many and so many have not even ended, so many and so many, 275, we are now accepting or transferring them by means of an annex to this year. Perhaps the reason is that these are very fragmented projects. This, by the way, was also one of the Court of Auditors’ comments that it would be reasonable to finance or call for proposals in such a way that they could only come up with larger projects, projects that would also have more added value, of course, perhaps not only within one municipality’s borders, but in what kind of connections. This is already large at some regional levels, and such projects are already irrefutablely proving to be successful. I do not think I would now respond to all the comments that have been made. With regard to the data, what was the situation that was required 1. 1. and the situation on March 31st is not true that everything would be the same. The differences are not big, but the difference is, it's moving like I said, it's moving in steps because otherwise it's not going, but far from doing nothing and nothing would change. So it goes. Of course, we agree that if you want to plan well you need to have good baseline data, and this is what we want from these analyses of the previous period and calls, as well as we expect from Isar, this is an information system that will really cover not only pure accounting or financial data, but we will get more when the issue is finally glass. And I'm done with it. Ms Črnugelj talked about administrative obstacles, how difficult it is to meet these calls to those who do not know how to do it. We're aware of this and I've already told you about some of the instruments with which we're going to solve these conundrums. Because it is true that once you succeed in the invitation to tender, you can succeed at the next and the next, and many times the same beneficiaries appear because they know and others do not know. We would also like to teach those who do not yet know. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposals for conclusions and the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. 4. 2009 First amendment of SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS to Decision 1. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to decision 4. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments and proposals for conclusions will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, at 20 hours and 25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 20 and 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u198	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The time is 20.25, as predicted, and we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - this is by addressing the issue of sub-financing of RTV Slovenia and cultural content on public RTV and the Report on the work of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia in 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the proposal for a decision. In this regard, I would like to point out that the amendment completely amends the text of the proposed decision. If the amendment is adopted, the text of the decision will be completely amended and the National Assembly will therefore not vote in full. We decide on the amendments of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Zares. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also obstructed the debate in the parliamentary group on the Committee of the National Assembly on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. The debate and the conclusions proposed and adopted there were completely contrary to the content of the materials presented at the meeting of the home working body and also completely contrary to what was submitted by the public service Radiotelevision Slovenia. We are appalled by the fact that decisions are being taken that have no bearing on the actual situation. It is not true that culture is disappearing from the public broadcasting program. Programmes and funds for culture are increasing, both in the nominal amount, in the financial amount and in the relative share of programming time. We are also appalled that culture is disappearing from the National Assembly. Many discussions on working bodies, especially on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, suggest that this committee does not actually deserve to have culture on behalf of it. And since the proposals for conclusions are primarily the basis for human resources accounting in the public service of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, we will obstruct the voting in the parliamentary group, both on the amendment and later on, if the amendment is not adopted, on the proposal for a decision of the home working body. We are of the opinion that the debate, the content of the debates, the proposals for conclusions and the transparency of the proposers should be made in such a way that it will be at the level of the National Assembly. What is happening on this committee in this mandate, as well as in the National Assembly, is far from being able to say that debates, relations and other cultural things are cultural. We're predicting obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The obstruction was announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. [[We'll wait for the obstruction to take place formally.]] We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This also gives full effect to the decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - dealing with the problems of drawing on European funds on the basis of the Court of Auditors' published report "European Union funds in the final accounts of the State budget". We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to the proposal for conclusions. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to the first decision. Please, Mr. Tanko, explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u201	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u202	So procedurally, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. The amendment's proposal at this point is that it will probably be adopted, because the coalition will accept that the contents of two points will be completely amended, two proposals from the conclusions of the home labour body, which have clearly concluded that the contents are such that they actually stand and the proposals of the conclusions are also in line with the report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration at the working body of the National Assembly. At the same time, we note that no important and concrete steps have been taken in this period, apart from unjustified criticism at the expense of European funds, to make any significant improvement in this area, which would make it possible to actually improve pumping. Even more, with the rebalancing adopted a good month ago, these items in the area of European funds are further reduced. And the coalition does not propose any, once again it has not proposed any appropriate solutions that would in any way improve the work in this area. In fact, we are even in a paradoxical situation where someone who participated in the preparation of materials, invitations, and worked at the Local Self-Government Service, which you find has not been successful, has even progressed to the Minister for the same area. In short, the situation is paradoxical. And this is where we predict obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Obstruction has been announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to the first decision. We're voting. Dear colleague Luksic, procedurally? [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] You want procedural? [[...]] As an unrelated Member, you cannot predict obstruction; this can only be announced by the parliamentary group, so that I can get ahead of you. We're voting. Breakup. Explanation of vote, unconnected Member of Mr Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u206	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u207	By the way, I forgive you for mistaking my last name for three times. I hope it was just a mistake. I hope that's not like the Minister of Higher Education. However, at this point, I will not vote for one reason - those and those who worked at the Ministry of Local Self-Government for the past four years, but I think they have done well, as well as the minister who has now become a minister, one of the officials, has written that more than 50% of the available resources have been used in the last period, but the fear of the government coalition, which is obviously also pressing this ministry to avoid preparing calls for the period 2010, 2013 to recategorize these funds, is more than 300 million euros for some others, but the other ministries are, of course, of course, a source of concern. Therefore, I will not participate in this "glory" which is harmful to Slovenian regions, to regional development, to what this is intended to do. In fact, it is unacceptable that, in a situation like this, you do not give those economic operators the opportunity to work and turn and use and invest money from the European community. That's why I'm not taking part in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u209	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have already said our views on how we work and also on the main problems in the field of using European funds in the debate. In a debate that went back into the past, in which a number of Members, who are well aware of this subject, also used statistics very populistally. In the debate that was intended and developed here, everything in this direction took place to assess that of this Slovenia, the Slovenian landscape, the Slovenian programmes will have absolutely nothing. In today's debate and also in the past, we have tried many times to encourage, above all, a view of the future, a view of fund-raising. In this part in which, in essence, what happened at the pre-election time continues to be used to account with certain parties to draw on European funds. In this case, however, the Slovenian People's Party is also a party to which the previous Minister was present, which I think he has done a great deal for this pump. That is why we have also decided that we will not participate in this vote and leave the coalition to decide that today we can make the cross again with pleasure over the work of the minister, but at the same time I want the current coalition to be more successful and that in one year we will have a better theme in reviewing this area and drawing these funds and that you will also be able to speak more easily about successful drawing. I wish you very much luck, especially to the Government in this work, which will play a key role in our decision-making. Lots of luck and lots of pleasures.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u210	I note that, as part of his explanation of vote, Mr Bogovic has basically announced the obstruction of the Slovenian People's Party, so further explanations of the vote by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party are no longer possible, I cannot give them. Therefore, obstruction is announced by members of the Slovenian People's Party, so it is no longer possible for these Members to give an opportunity to explain their vote. That's obvious. So we decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to the first decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's go to the fourth decision. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to the fourth decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our decision-making on the amendments to the proposal for conclusions. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for decisions. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Austrian Federal Government on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the International Tropical Forest Agreement 2006 The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Development and Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. Are we moving to Please? [[...]] Procedural? Please, Mr. Anderlich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u211	At this meeting of the National Assembly, we have a law following an urgent procedure, which does not yet meet all the conditions, obviously this point to carry out the assembly, despite the fact that yesterday the National Assembly adopted a decision, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly imposes on the working body, in accordance with the allocation and in accordance with the agenda of the State Assembly, to prepare a report, or to define it in the law, as the mother's labour body must do. We have not yet received this. Nor do I know, at least not by myself, but my colleagues tell me that there is not yet a meeting of the working body that could prepare a report on this agenda item before the conclusion of the meeting of the National Assembly. I propose that, in accordance with Article 73(3), the National Assembly decides that we will need to conclude this meeting of the National Assembly, or the item on the agenda that we have skipped, of the report of the parent working body. I therefore propose that the assembly end the meeting of the National Assembly for so long that the mother labour body prepares a report and the assembly decides on the proposed report or the material to be submitted. If these conditions are not met, I believe you will also convene a meeting of the College and agree on how to proceed. The procedural proposal is very clear, paragraph 73, the suspension of the meeting until the report of the parent working body is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I note that you have tabled a procedural proposal for the assembly, in accordance with Article 73, third paragraph, to suspend the meeting of the National Assembly until the mother's working body prepares a report on the "Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code". The procedural proposal is tabled and there is no discussion or explanation of vote and we are moving on to a decision on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. I will inform you of the continuation of the meeting in due time. Thank you very much.
