ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the third session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Happy Friend and Breda Pecan from 17:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SURVEILLANCE LAW under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! We have a second-reading insurance law ahead of us. The substance of the amendments to the law is in the implementation of the European Directive governing the procedure for obtaining a qualified share, and the law also introduces some other amendments that are necessary at the moment. Let me write them down for a little bit. The implementation of the European Directive regulates three matters. Firstly, it sets out the timing of the assessment procedure for the authorisation, the reasons for refusing the authorisation of a qualified proportion and the additional requirements for the cooperation of supervisory authorities. The law introduces, as already introduced in companies, a single insurance management system. The next matter governed by the law is that it prescribes the use of the profits of the Mutual Insurance Company by specifying precisely the purposes for which the reserves may be used. Specifies the register of insurance agents. The law further sets out and substantiates the issue of insurance mediation and representation by specifying exactly which cases do not fall within this category. The amount of insurance of professional liability of insurance intermediaries shall also be increased. The establishment of third-country branches is changing in such a way that it is possible to establish third-country branches without reciprocity for all OECD members. Your Honor! I propose that you adopt the bill in the text before you. At the same time, I propose that you also make a third reading of this law today and fully confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the president, mag. To Anton Rope, to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning. Dear Members! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has prepared a report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which proposed that further legislative and technical corrections to the proposed text be carried out in cooperation with the proposer. At the time of submission of the law, they were in the course of business, on 10. 2. Two amendments were tabled by the group of Members, signed by Dr. Luke Yuri, on 16 and 23 of the legislative proposal. Days 12. 2. On the basis of the opinion of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS, the coalition SD, LDS and DeSUS have tabled editorial amendments to Article 20 of the legislative proposal and the SDS Group have tabled amendments to Article 16 of the legislative proposal. In the context of additional working material, the Committee was also informed of the written comments on the consideration of the amendments to the Insurance Act of 17. The 2nd Committee was forwarded to the Coordination Committee of the Association of Insurance Intermediaries of Slovenia. In its explanation for the legislative proposal, the applicant stressed that the main objective of the legislative proposal is to implement Directive 2007-44 EC in the Slovenian legal order. This takes into account some very important principles. This is the principle of transparency, integrity, prudential and effective supervision, legal certainty, the public, proportionality and separation between direct and portfolio investments. The latter set out, inter alia, a closed list of criteria on the basis of which the competent supervisory authority carefully examines the role of the investor in order to increase the qualified share of the financial institution; the maximum period during which the competent supervisory authority may obtain additional information; and the number of interruptions of the assessment period. These solutions, inter alia, ensure greater transparency of the authorisation procedure for the acquisition of a qualified share and, analogously, other sectoral laws, as already stated today, introduce the possibility of a single management system and the use of a register of authorised actors. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid particular attention to Article 16 of the legislative proposal and the amendment to that provision, and we are likely to discuss and discuss this article most today, as well as the amendment. At the time of the amendment of Article 16 of the SDS Group, the representative of the proposed amendments, after which the profit shown in the annual report may be distributed or transferred to the following financial year only to the extent not necessary for the creation of security reserves, only for the recovery of the capital or other payments provided for in the Statute. He highlighted one of the fundamental principles of the Mutual, namely the conduct of business for its members in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, which means that the fundamental objective of this institution is not profit but rather the satisfaction of the interests of the insured. At the same time, it was pointed out that there was a clear incompatibility with the Reciprocal Principles in the event that a profit based on the exercise of a basic activity would be used outside the basic activity, e.g. for life insurance or car insurance. However, other discussers felt that this was not necessarily the case, even vice versa, as it would be possible to prevent the normal and competitive development of the insurance undertaking by restricting the provision of other health insurance to compatible services and thereby injure its members. This would, on the one hand, unduly limit the economies of scale in the business of insurance undertakings and at the same time prevent the development of other emergency products, such as long-term care insurance as an important part of health insurance. In view of this non-life restrictions on the business of insurance companies, it is not acceptable and, in the opinion of the proposers of this amendment, it cannot be supported. The following members of the Committee adopted the amendments to Article 16 of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr. Luke Yuri. According to the reasons given, the Mutual takes place in a competitive insurance market and needs to be allowed to develop normally. It is also worth noting that it is excluded that the Mutual Insurance Company would become composite, so that it could also include car insurance in its way of doing business, since it is already prevented by the Insurance Act. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly at its second meeting corrected the first reading of the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please report. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! Allow me to start by welcoming the Brežice High School students who are here today in the framework of civic education. Now for the dark. The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 16 in order to prevent the profit created by the insurance undertaking based on the principle of reciprocity from being shared for other purposes, such as the basic mission of such an insurance undertaking. For we believe that the activity of an insurance undertaking acting on the principle of reciprocity is the principle when insured persons pay by contributions as much as this insurance undertaking has the costs. Therefore, it is not intended to generate profits, but the mission of this insurance undertaking is solely to satisfy the interests and needs of members and members. Of course, we are aware that the task of each insurance undertaking is also to expand its activities, its activities, to form such packages and to upgrade insurance that meets the needs of members. However, we know that insurance profits based on the principle of reciprocity are not the right address to finance these services. Therefore, it is not true that we are opposed to the fact that insurance companies based on this principle do not develop other types of insurance. On the contrary, we believe that the challenge of time, as well as the trends in insurance, are forcing insurance companies to form a wider range of offers for insurers. However, once again, we believe that the profits generated by insurance under the principle of reciprocity or one type of insurance cannot be shed to cover other types of insurance. And this is a basic message - we object to the fact that from one insurance type, profits are to be passed on to other insurance types, because we believe that the contribution of one insurance species must be the same as the costs that it entails. However, we believe that there is sufficient room to allow insurance companies to develop and operate on other insurance products within other insurance types. And we believe that the solution voted on by the Committee on Finance is towards the non-transparentness of insurance undertakings acting in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. Therefore, we believe that the profits made from this must be treated very carefully, carefully, in the interests of the members. Therefore, I do not see any reason for members to develop additional forms of insurance, type and other insurance products in different ways. Let me remind you that in this case it is an insurance policy involving almost half of all Slovenians. So it's a huge number of members and members, and that's why their money needs to be handled carefully, transparently and not poured into other insurance products.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you. As far as Article 16 is concerned, I think that the finding of the Legal and Legislative Service should also be mentioned and the amendment tabled should be compared. Certainly, Mr President, I think that today's second treatment of this law - I also speak of profit and division in Article 16 - is a major abuse. Of the 32 articles of this Act, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on 22 articles. 20 articles were corrected. If you ask me, if we were to be honest with people, we should have a first hearing today. It's a big abuse! It's a big abuse! And a second time. In connection with the profit sharing. You know, the people who were harmed by nature had their property and property secured and paid a high amount of insurance quotas. They just got their compensation in the amount they're in. And talking to insurance companies about profits, when natural captures are a little bigger and stronger than usual, and because the insurance company is running out of income money, not to pay back costs, to form a new law, how profits will be shared, is the greatest shame that this country and this so-called democratic government can afford. The insurance company can't have any profits. He can't and he can't have any profits! However, if they are created, these profits must go to the benefit of the insurers, those who pay the insurance sums - either to receive more compensation or to pay a smaller insurance sum for the same amount of compensation. Today, once again, we are the ones who let this law go through first reading, unfair to citizens and citizens. There are 22 articles that have been amended, which are completely different in substance; that is, today should be the first debate. However, since the second is, of course, allow only two amended articles, although they have been amended through the committee, have been amended by 20 articles, it is at least unfair. Dear colleagues, I appreciated you. I hope that you are Members and Members on behalf of all the people, but such conduct is ugly. Ugly! We are considering a completely new law, we do not have the right to talk about it, you have let the first treatment go through, even though the whole law has been amended - substantively, not technically, but substantively - and now we are making nice to people and we are talking about executive directors and profits in Article 16, how they can be distributed and where. In fact, we create an absolute non-social and non-democratic insurance company and provided that it is a condition that one of the executives [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u9	Kolegov Barovic, Article 16 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u10	Yeah, I'm talking about Article 16 and profit sharing. Mr. President, allow me, come on! I am, excuse me, a member of the National Assembly who has the right to speak. And he's talking about an amendment to Article 16 that talks about profit sharing. And I can say in this regard, Mr President, what the Slovenian National Party thinks and what is true. But if someone doesn't like it, he can either go out or cancel the National Assembly. Hell, I don't understand any of this politics! Today we are talking essentially about the first reading of this law, not the second, because the whole marriage is new and we lie to people and we make profits and we sell insurance companies! Who can tell me that if you've examined the materials, we're not selling them! One Executive Director may speak or must speak Slovenian. Please, what does that mean? We're gonna sell her out! The insurance companies will generate profits, a nation that will flood, reptiles and everything else, their houses that they've built, and they'll pull it right under their noses. It's a disgrace to the National Assembly! This should be the first time! Slovenian nationals will not participate in the treatment of this law because the top is the biggest disgrace, and we will absolutely oppose it. And for once, be honest enough to tell people that you "fucked them" because it's a whole new law. Look again, look at the revised text; 20 articles have been corrected, and this is substantive! How can you say that this is the law you adopted at first reading! At least have so much pride and don't lie. This is a brand new law that we are talking about today at second reading. We have no right at all, except for the amendments to Articles 16 and 1. Shame on us!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Is it a wish to discuss it? I'll give you a chance to report right away. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u12	Good afternoon. Nicely greeted. Today's debate and the amendments tabled and the opinion delivered by the president of the working body, I think they are so different that it is right for each of us to express our views on this matter. There is no need to re-examine the opinion, because it is a matter of complying with the European Directive. If Slovenia has decided that it is in the European Union to make Slovenia more open within the European Union, then this change is also necessary in the field of insurance. By 21 March this year it is necessary to harmonise this regime and the substance of the novelty is also the adoption of an additional measure to reduce administrative barriers. But it has also been very important in recent years to strengthen insurance in Slovenia and Europe. In today's debate, I do not think that some of the concerns mentioned in this regard, at least as I feel, are necessary. Therefore, I propose that the amendment of the Insurance Act be adopted in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Collaborators and coworkers, young viewers! I agree that every Member and every Member has the right to say what he thinks, but it is also, I think, his responsibility to be informed about the matter before he claims to try to find out what he is talking about before he says things that he does not hold on to - according to the subject we are talking about. So I ask my colleagues and colleagues, especially those who speak out about lies, to be informed before they speak. As far as the law itself is concerned and as far as the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has already been on the committee in the debate, has a meaning that bears a positive message. However, there is a difference between the message it carries and the actual effect. In fact, the interest of each insurer and insurer The mutual interest is, in particular, as low as possible of the insurance policy, i.e. as low as possible of the cost of maximum effect, i.e. to pay as little as possible for the best possible insurance coverage. That's what I think is our common goal. If this is our common objective, then we must ensure that such insurance undertakings are competitive and economies of scale. Because if we restrict the development of the insurance company, we limit its ability to compete in the Slovenian and foreign markets; we limit its ability to compete with other, classical or share companies, such as Triglav, we limit its ability to compete and compete at the European level. It's not in the insurance interest. This is not in the interest of anyone who wants to pay the lower shelf. If we limit the possibility for the insurance company Mutual to carry out its business where we have an interest, for example in long-term care, we will make a huge mistake and we will not achieve the goal we want. He doesn't think that's going to limit profit. Whoever knows the structure and functioning of the Mutual Insurance Company knows there's no profit. He knows that profit is not paid and that therefore the money created within the insurance company is used in one way or another for good insurance and insurance. Now we have two options: whether we will force these funds to be blocked and that development is prevented, work is prevented, other important services such as long-term care are prevented. I recall that in Slovenia long-term care is very poorly organised, at present, and that older people do not have the opportunity to actually have a peaceful age guaranteed, precisely because such long-term care insurance is not yet available. If we limit ourselves to such an amendment, that's exactly what we're going to achieve. So the counter-effect of what the proposer would like to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Grill, I would like to remind my esteemed colleagues, Members and Members that we are somehow agreed on a procedural basis, that our esteemed guests from the parliamentary bench should not be particularly welcomed - everyone is always welcome and welcome - not on the balcony and not in front of the TV set. I'd like us to stick to that. It's just a custom that I want to keep driving. All guests are always welcome and welcome to this national assembly. Please, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The point already made on the Committee, as well as today in the debate that we are trying to block the development of Mutual or Insurance through this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is simply not true. In no way do we want to do this. However, we want to ensure somehow with this amendment that profit, I stress the profit that would be generated, is not intended for certain products that have no connection with our health. And that's what's extremely important. This amendment is actually trying to install a security guard here. On the committee we discussed this for a long and broad time, and there in my debate I expressed the expectation that the Government and the ruling coalition - because you are the ones who have already rejected our amendment on the committee - will prepare for this consideration an appropriate amendment or solution that will enable the development of an insurance company, but especially in the health sector, such as, say, a long-term care that is certainly a challenge, a need that will be extremely important in the future. But she obviously loves you. She didn't want you. That is why we have again tabled this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to install this protector. Profit - if the matter were ideal, the Mutual should not have profit, because as soon as it has profit, it means that our insurers have paid too much. That's the basic message. And if profit is already generated, then in the following year, let us give our insurers the opportunity to pay a smaller premium, but not to allow that profit to be intended for the development of some products that can also be for health care, but nowhere is this guarantee. I believe that the discussion by the representatives of the insurance company was also intended to target certain health products. However, such a solution, as it is now, is not explicitly defined anywhere. And here is this fear that we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this regard. As well as the fear that economies of scale will be affected, the Mutual Insurance Company is already the largest in its number of insurers. But why is the number so great - because it's based on reciprocity. This is the key role of this insurance company, and it has also been established to this end, and this principle must not be undermined. I am so sure that if the Mutual Minimum Premiums and the highest quality of these services will have, this economies of scale, which is already very large - that is 900 000 insured - can only increase this. Because this will be what our insurers will be interested in deciding on mutual insurance. That is why I expect, especially by the coalition, that this amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party with good intentions, is also supported. Otherwise, such a solution to this law is certainly not good. Once again, we do not want to express in any way the obvious that we are trying to block the development of insurance, not at all, but to develop in the field of health, because this is what we will need in the future even more intensely than now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Anton Rop has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had some time earlier to fully present the report, so, of course, this was my opinion at the same time and the conclusion of the decision was also on the Committee with regard to Article 16. I am sure that the SDS Group had no bad intentions when it tabled this amendment at the Committee's meeting. Our thinking was similar and similar. We want the Mutual to work for the benefit of its members. That these members have a premium for the services in question as low as possible. However, the insurance market is competitive. All other insurance companies in Slovenia, especially the larger ones, develop health insurance, health insurance, supplemental of course, and all those products that go along with it. And in this context, it is entirely possible, quite realistic, that a solution that would have been taken with good intentions to prevent the development of the Mutual could in the end lead to the fact that other insurance companies that could develop additional products would become significantly more competitive so that people would move from the Mutual to other insurance companies and be insured elsewhere. This is one problem that may concern just an insurance company called Mutual. The second problem is that if we do not take advantage of the potential of the Mutual, if we do not take advantage of the knowledge of the Mutual for the sake of development, we will have significantly lower competitiveness in the area of insurance services in Slovenia. Dear Members and Members, the development of additional products is not possible without funds, it is not possible to invest and investment can only be realised through profit, otherwise it is not possible, unless someone thinks that the Mutual must be in charge for 10, 15 years, develop their products by doing so and then cover these products that will develop through higher premiums. Earlier mention was made of one of the extremely important products; this is the provision or insurance for long-term care. Those who have dealt with this are aware that this is one of the key and major problems of caring for the elderly in Slovenia. We have thought for quite some time in the past in Slovenia that, like Germany, we would also provide this part of the services for the elderly by raising the contribution rate. Indeed, in Germany they have a particularly additional contribution rate in order to develop such products because it is a real problem; the real problem of all ageing societies at this time in the European Union. Slovenia is in a very poor position as far as this is concerned. I warn you, this is a very bad situation. And now we have the opportunity, now we have the opportunity to develop these products and also to encourage the development of these products by enabling insurance companies to develop them. But, you know, developing these products by investing, I don't know, in nursing hospitals or nursing homes in Slovenia, means a lot of investment, means a lot of resources, but at the end of some insurance products that can be covered by additional premiums. I'd like to warn you that I won't be too long. Mutual insurance companies, health insurance companies, have proved to be one of the most effective insurance companies in the world. Those who are involved in health care are likely to know that the French health system is considered the most successful in the world. And what is the basis of the French health system? At mutual insurance companies, complementary, of course, which can develop the products available to them. Nobody even thinks of restricting these insurance companies with some articles and saying that there is no investment, there is no development, you're just going to spend it all on lowering the premiums. And last but not least, if the Mutual Insurance Company is limited in development, I warn you, limited in development, if other insurance companies go forward here, the insurance and mutual members will end up paying for it. Since it will be less competitive, it will have fewer services and fewer members and will therefore have to have higher premiums. So, for a long time, this will turn on its own members. It is therefore no different than for the European Union, in the environment of Slovenia, to enable the development of mutual development in relation to needs. At the same time, I agree with those of the SDS Group of Members who point out that profit should not be earmarked for other purposes. Absolutely! And I would therefore like to point out that already now the Insurance Act basically restricts the use of this profit, then here we also have the Statute of the Mutual and at the same time the Mutual Assembly, which each time decides on the development of additional products and possible investments. So, for good not only the development of the Mutual but mainly the insurance market, taking care of the elderly and also the development of the financial system in Slovenia, I appeal that you think about this amendment. Of course, we cannot absolutely support it and I propose that we adopt the law in the form that is proposed here before us and allow for normal development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I see that it is a great desire to make a profit from the insurance company Mutual, for other purposes as well. Because if this profit is not, as my fellow Member says, then I don't know what we're actually talking about. So, there's obviously a great ambition to have a profit that comes from, practically, supplementary health insurance just like that. Between insurance types and between insurance groups, even as now proposed by the basic text. See, the mutual insurance companies in the Republic of Slovenia pay premiums for a specific insurance product. Precisely a certain insurance product! And they expect this premium to reflect the actual costs of this product. Therefore, they will pay as much as this insurance product of supplementary health insurance costs. Not anymore. I think that insured persons in the assembly can autonomously decide to go into the development of new insurance types, new products in one or another group. However, this amendment prevents profit from being made for this purpose. This is not true that an insurance company like the Mutual cannot develop. We want it to develop, but we want it to develop in a transparent way, not with the money created in one of the other insurance types, such as supplementary health insurance. This is the basic dilemma and conflict that we are discussing here today. We want insurers, members to establish new products by their decision, and they can do so in the congregation. Once again, it's about as if you went to the store and bought one product, you'd pay it more to get another one cheaper. That's not fair. We pay everyone as much as it costs, and nothing more. And something else - on the Committee on Finance, it was also very clear that none of us is even opposed to the fact that profit could be earmarked for the development of a new insurance product. For development. And we have put forward this amendment, which has also become part of the text on the Committee on Finance, to consider in this direction proposing an amendment that would limit the sharing of profits only to the development of new insurance products. But that was not the case either. Apparently, there is another interest here - that the money collected by insurers also works by allowing the insurance company to develop and carry out other products at the expense of premiums of some other insurance type. This allows today this basic text, which we have amended with a more precise dictatorship and a certain protector. And please, it is not true that in the SDS we oppose the development of the mutual insurance company. The Mutual Insurance Company has a significant advantage over other insurance companies - it has a huge range of insurers, it has a reputation and has a name. And this is very much so that, in an appropriate way, the Assembly also decides to develop new products for the benefit of its members. I fully agree with you that these insurance products from individual insurance types need to be combined into some group packages that make up a logical whole, including this long-term care or care, and some other insurance species can be present here. We are not at all opposed to the development of this insurance company, but we want to provide development funds in a more transparent way than to finance it from a profit created in another relatively sensitive insurance type, such as additional health insurance. And if you ask these 900 members whether the extra health insurance is too expensive or too cheap, I bet 99% will say it's too expensive, even though the truth may be elsewhere. And you would also share in the profit that comes from this for other purposes. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! My opinion, too, is that this amendment does not prevent the Mutual from dealing with other forms of insurance as well as forming these groups of insurance, but not from the profit of the underlying activity. In fact, it is not said that these other insurance companies will generate profits. However, if it had already been created, this does not mean or there are no guarantees that all members and members of the Mutual will benefit from this profit. This is no longer in line with the essence and meaning of the mutual insurance company. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. To return some of the members of the National Assembly. It would be nice if they read this law - at least those who had some comments earlier. If they do not have time to read the law according to the articles in the first reading and the amended law in the second reading, they should at least read the report. Otherwise, Mr President, as far as I am aware, we are talking today about the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. My heart hurts! And I'm talking about the amendment to Article 16, and we're back there: interests on the right, interests on the left, insurance mutual, money and profit. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to point out that we are talking about the Insurance Act, a number of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, but of course no one considers them. Then I promise you I'll be quiet because there's no point in talking. This National Assembly will today adopt if this law adopts the following text of Article 11: Number of shares from which an unjustifiable holder may [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u25	Dear colleague Barovic, Article 11 is not the subject of today's debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u26	I know it's not. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u27	I'm sorry. [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u28	Just let me be [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u29	We have to be both consistent. [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u30	that article [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u31	We both have to be consistent with the agenda and [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u32	In short, unjustifiable holders will, of course, be able to exercise voting rights. [[....]] You'll accept this and let people hear it. Unwarranted shareholders will still be able to accept profits by adopting this law. Hello!Oh, my God! Do you even know what you're accepting? Are you just taking on Reciprocal and Article 16? Do you know that we are Members of all people in Slovenia? Article 16 - I support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and let us stop arguing about who will earn more from the Mutual! We should be at least that honest if you don't care about the other 30 articles of the Insurance Act, where one article, article 11, is illegal, following a warning from the Law and Law Service. That's what you're going to take! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I want to say again: the insurance company cannot share the profits. Is that right? Hold it! A mutual insurance company cannot pay dividends, it cannot pay awards and other forms of profit sharing. I hope that this Member, who has had much to say and has now left the debate, as do those who show respect and remain in the debate, you can agree. Regarding the development of the mutual insurance company. Such an amendment, as proposed, is indeed a great service to all non-reciprocal insurance companies. In particular, it is a big service, for example, for Triglav or for other insurance companies that would also like to deal with health insurance. Whether there are interests in the back, I think it is not an object and it would be harmful to discuss it, because we have to decide on the content. But the fact is, it's a service, because it puts the insurance company Mutually in an unequal position with others. Others may use development funds, but this amendment would prevent mutual insurance companies from doing so. There's something else I'd like to remind you of. At European level, 60% of insured and insured persons in all areas of insurance are members and members of mutual insurance companies. 60%! Mutual insurance companies operate in the field of health insurance, but they also have the opportunity to develop other services, such as the long-term care we need in Slovenia, and say that not all those people who pay substantial money for this and at the European level, including many other services. We have mutual insurance companies, such as Massif, which even deal with car insurance, although there this law, as is now proposed, without an amendment, does not allow this because we have decided to focus on specific central services. So, please, I understand the purpose, but if you're not satisfied with the current dictatorship, you need to find a different solution. I don't know her, so I think she's the best right now. What is proposed will not lead to what you want. This will lead to a barrier to development, will lead to more expensive insurance policies and will in the long term damage to the mutual insurance company, which means that it will harm members and members of the insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the past, much has been said about the insurance company Mutual and whether to allow certain other products to be marketed or not. Of course, it was all the time and always talked about some and not all. In Germany, for comparison, we know more than 50 mutual insurance companies. More than 50, which actually have all kinds of complementary services, so they market some complementary service that kind of coincides with that basic activity or, if I say so, corbis. In short, insurance for older people, etc. It is important for people, according to the Slovenian People's Party, that the Mutual remains and that it develops and that it provides people with quality and cheap services. If we are to limit it in such a way or another way in this severe competitive fight, which is and which is coming to our market from all parts of Europe, I am talking about foreign insurance companies, and after we have also allowed other insurance companies to market health insurance, of course this development, according to our belief from the Mutual in the future, I am talking about the future, we cannot expect it. This number of insurers that the Mutual currently has, I am speaking of course exclusively about the area of health insurance, does not allow for any serious development, especially when some insurers came both to the Insurance Office Triglav and also to the Insurance Office AS. And according to our estimate for the future, given that there have been some gains in the Mutual over the past two years, this insurance company will certainly not record some serious profits in the future, so that it can be seen that anything strange is happening here. It should also be known that it takes quite some time to implement such insurance when introducing a new service when it comes to life insurance. In this case, we estimate that for at least three years the insurance company would be in the minus and then another six years to return the entire investment and we are even confident that the profits that have now been and which will eventually be too small for such additional services to be implemented. So, I understand the mutual development as preventing the collapse or even the disappearance of this only Mutual Insurance in the country, I repeat, with the competition that is and which is coming into our country. We are convinced that we must not restrict it in its development, especially for the benefit of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. You want to discuss it. I'm opening an application for discussion. We'll do it again. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thanks again for saying that. Look, I am very glad that even from the position or coalition, the debaters have somehow recognised the well-intention of this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the same time, however, they are still trying to demonstrate that this is an obstacle to the development of the insurance company. We firmly believe that such an amendment is not intended to hinder development, but will still be possible in another way. If we adopt this law in such a way, without this amendment, there is a potential danger that the mutual leadership, when it recognizes the possibility of profit, will invest in some other products that are not necessarily related to health care, in order to try to raise premiums on purpose, in order to generate profits, which is contrary also to the principle of reciprocity and, above all, the aim of the premium being the lowest and highest level of services for our insurers. I expected this, and I also mentioned at the committee meeting that the coalition or the Government would prepare for this particular article an amendment that would actually allow for the development of the mutual insurance company even more precisely, and in particular to prevent the abuse of any resulting profit. Unfortunately this was not the case, no amendments were tabled, except by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And now is once again an opportunity, if you judge the coalition, that this amendment is too loose, that it does not follow the objective of accepting it and that it is possible to prepare or jointly prepare such an amendment by the third reading, which will also solve it. It is not, however, that the primaries with such arguments, which I think are not the most justified, reject this well-intentioned attempt that we have expressed in the Slovenian Democratic Party with this amendment. So again, I appeal to all of you who are in the role of deciding on these things to make this effort, to prepare such a text of the article, which will allow the mutual insurance company to develop further and at the same time prevent any abuse of profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening the application for debate. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Given that we are approaching the conclusion, I would like to recall that when we talk about the development of insurance, even as we are talking about a number of other sectors, we need to talk and have in mind the European dimension, the European dimension. We are not talking about how an insurance company will develop only in Slovenia, but we are talking about its competitiveness in Europe. I remind you that, given that the free movement is in place, another mutual insurance company, such as Germany's Unica Group or the Massif from France, which has five times the "turn over" of the Slovenian mutual insurance company, may request the opening of an intermediary in Slovenia and begin its operations. So it is not in the interest of Slovenian insurers and insurers that we restrict it in this way. It's not in the interest! We are doing a service to other insurance companies, we are doing a service to private insurance companies, we are doing a service to insurance companies from other members of the European Union. Let us look at a European perspective and be so broad that we understand that if we do this today, we will have a long-term impact on ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second draft law on the amendment of the law on value added tax, under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a member of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. I give my word to the proposaler of the Magi Act. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u42	The Honorable President. Dear Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. We have talked so much about the Value Added Tax Act and the purpose of this very simple article or novelty that it is difficult to come up with anything else. However, however, there was a new, very interesting situation that concerns me. When we proposed this solution, we had in mind the desire to ensure liquidity to the economy through one important measure - according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance of 150 million at annual level - and it was then recognized that this was indeed a measure which could have quite positive effects on economic operators when they were in a relatively difficult situation in the capital market or in the financial market, when they also had difficulty obtaining loans for capital and so on. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia felt that it had a fondness for this proposal, and it would say that the Government was ready to consider solutions that would take effect quickly or at least as quickly as possible. Then we were a little disappointed when we had one step in the opposite direction and two steps in the back. The first step was that the Government was willing to repay the overpaid VAT within 21 days of the issue of the invoice, but only in the second half of this year. The economic and financial crisis will not take place in six months, nor will it take place in one year because it has been in the country for at least half a year. And the country must respond quickly to these issues and take measures that are swift, which are effective. However, when we have actually followed the amendment to these initial positions of the Government, if: not in the middle of this year, but in the second year, the question is whether the Government has adopted this proposal and, among other things, referred to it as one of its actions. That's very interesting. See, the second year, will be the second year, the financial-economic crisis has happened quite a while ago, the consequences most felt by economic operators now. For the second year, even the finance minister predicts that this will no longer be so that we will receive growth in the second half of this year and I do not know why such an approach to the government will be. Is this some kind of making a fool out of this proposal, if you do; not now, but when it will no longer be real. I don't think we need it when it's out of date. Therefore, honourable Members, we have also proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party an amendment that goes in some way contrary to the Government's position when it says that it cannot return so quickly because of all possible verifications. We know and do not want this law to open up any possibility of abuse and tax rolls and the like. We are convinced that if there is a suspicion that something like this is behind, we have mechanisms and also competent institutions have mechanisms to ensure this. However, when we talk about those key Slovenian economic operators, such as Slovenian 'blue chips' or those public companies that are in the top trading scales, they are probably not participating in tax whirls. And when we talk about them, all we can do is give them back the overpaid VAT, because there are probably no legitimate reasons to go through financial and tax speculation. So, I suggest we move on with this idea and offer the economy what is most expected is liquid money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the president a word. To Anton Rope for presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 3rd session. 2. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by a proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act submitted to the National Assembly by a Magnificent Member for consideration. Andrej Vizjak. The draft law was held at the 2nd meeting of the Assembly of State 29. 1. On the basis of the request of the Group of Members and Members of Parliament, the first-signed Jozet Tank had a general discussion, after which the National Assembly decided that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. In the introductory version of the proposed law, the applicant stressed that the proposed law, although it had already been rejected once, was still up to date, as it represents an important measure to address the key problem of the economy, which is the lack of liquid assets or increasingly difficult access to the resources offered by the financial sector. At the time of the Government's presentation of the amendments proposed by the Government, the government drew attention to two aspects of examining the proposed solutions that had been taken into account when proposing solutions. This, however, is a way to implement a shorter period of repayment and liquidity aspect of the budget. In view of the exercise of the necessary control and the change in the functioning of the tax administration, the government assessed that it would be possible to ensure the recovery of the surplus within 21 days. A short period of time than this would not be possible in the view of the Government if tax collection was to be carried out in an appropriate manner. From a budgetary point of view, the proposed cuts in the deadline have repaid the VAT surplus to 7 days and the immediate implementation of such a solution is problematic due to the liquidity shortfall in public financial revenues. In terms of liquidity in the event of a 21-day deadline, between €900 million and €100 million of additional debt resources would be needed. In this case, it would be most unfavourable to introduce the proposed measure in March 2009 or the first half of 2009, and it would be appropriate for the Government to introduce the proposed measure in later months - at a meeting of the committee there in mid-year and after a meeting of the committee the following year. The debate highlighted divergent views, some advocated the Government's proposal, and others advocated a compromise proposal to resolve the bill's proposal that this deadline should be 14 days for VAT refund. In the Committee's opinion on the need to adopt the proposed measure, a sceptical aspect of the proposed solutions was also highlighted in the debate. It is right that, with such a measure, which is not in itself bad and can help the economy, it thinks, even though it would make sense to think about it in the context of the overall budget rebalancing and not outside the context of all the expenditure and revenue of the state budget. A serious concern, at least in my opinion, is that the EUR 100 million estimated liquidity outflows due to the proposed measure, by adopting different, more reasonable measures in the current crisis situation, would be possible to achieve significantly more positive effects on economic growth or development and not only to facilitate the position of enterprises in the rental of short-term loans for operational assets. It should be borne in mind that the reduction in value-added tax returns means that companies will not have to borrow short-term loans for that period in the year when this is adopted if it is accepted. Later, of course, they will receive their VAT back in the form of a refund. So the actual direct subsidy and aid to businesses is not EUR 100 million, but perhaps not, but maybe, but around EUR 1 million, in order to cancel 100 million budget cuts and to implement a subsidy amounting to EUR 1 million, we adopt such a law. Such a measure is welcome, and 1 million is welcome, but it is 1 million to all Slovenian companies. In this regard, a considerable scepticism was expressed, not only about one deadline or the other, but about the whole law. Nevertheless, the Committee has adopted the proposed amendment to Articles 1 and 2 and, in the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal of the law in which the amendment was adopted is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Perhaps it is right to explain the change in the Government's position to the proposed law. As already mentioned in the introduction, the Government first assessed the time limit which the Tax Administration is able to take into account when paying back taxes without the risk of tax whirls. This deadline was set at twenty-one days. This was followed by an assessment of the liquidity situation of the State budget and, depending on this, it assessed that this could be achieved in the middle of the year without risking greater liquidity problems of the State budget in view of the dynamics of budgetary expenditure. All the time or at first reading of this law, the Government said that a reasonable law would be considered as part of the budget rebalancing, but since the law was introduced, it had no effect on the pace of the consideration of this law. And when we came up with a proposal for a rebalancing, and in the final phase of the proposal for a rebalancing, we found that economic growth would not be 1.1%, but that it would be 0.6% at most, it would result in an additional reduction in budgetary resources. Since we also wanted to ensure the implementation of crisis mitigation measures in the budget, it was, of course, impossible to balance the budget at the originally projected level of around 3% of the gross domestic product of the deficit. The Government therefore decided that the measure represented in this law should not be regarded as a crisis measure, but as the normal course of action of the Tax Administration, which should reduce the repayment deadlines in the coming year and at the same time provide a budget deficit of below 3%. She considered this to be a more meaningful action than taking into account the bill. I therefore suggest that you adopt the updated draft budget with the amendment subsequently tabled by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 2nd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 2.3.2009. First, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Would you like to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In fact, the amendment is a compromise between the Government's proposal and the original proposal, so to speak, two weeks instead of one or three weeks. Two weeks to check what needs to be checked after the check is made and return to the economy what is itss is said to be overpaid VAT. We're not talking about some state charity here, but we're talking about a tax that legal entities have paid too much, which is what the state needs to pay back. And it's right, it's cultural, it's democratic, it's fair to come back as soon as something gets too much. But it is even better for those who have never been, and probably also because of the size of the owners, and otherwise never intend to become tax speculators, not to throw themselves into the same basket and return under the same, in some way suspicious checks as all the others. In fact, when the Tax Administration refers to the fact that it cannot return this earlier than 14 days, it lists a whole set of reasons relating to processing in the light of tax evasion, tax evasion and other irregularities or illegalities. I do not think that this should be an excuse for all economic operators, all companies in the Republic of Slovenia, to be considered as potential tax evasioners and to be used for all of this period as an argument that this return is to be avoided and avoided for a long time. I think that we could follow if the Government, of course, wanted to, if it were not for some other reason in fact - and the reason is purely fiscal or purely in terms of the liquidity of the state budget - so if it were to seriously agree and talk with the Tax Administration, we would also prepare solutions that would have brought back earlier to those where there is no suspicion of any tax abuse. In fact, they have such a solution elsewhere in Europe, as far as I know in Estonia as well as in the Netherlands. Where suspected, however, there must be reasonable suspicion, it is not possible to make it appear that there is a tax evasion in the back. In this case, it can be checked first and then paid and returned. But a large majority of economic operators would get money, get their overpaid money sooner than in this deadline. If it were the will, there would also be a path and a solution to provide money to economic operators first. It is not entirely true that the net impact of this measure is EUR 1 million in terms of the delay or liquidity of the state budget of EUR 150 million. Therefore, it is only these costs of reverse or the costs of this short-term debt when companies have to rent a loan to get back what is theirs. That's not true, because some companies can't even get a loan. The problem is that some companies may also be in severe liquidity problems because they are waiting for their money. Not only does this money cost, it's not enough. I don't agree with those who say the credit crunch broke; he didn't give up! According to Banka Slovenije, which was published yesterday, there are more than half of the new credits compared to last year. The matter has been quite kneeling, quite stale and bankers are full of words that they always give credit, there is no problem, only there has to be a quality project in the back. What is qualitative, however, differs greatly in the light of bankers and economists. What was a successful and successful project for bankers and entrepreneurs a year or two ago is now not a successful project for bankers, but for entrepreneurs it is still a successful project. Here today, spears break and work and create problems. Effective solutions are usually simple. This solution to the proposal to shorten the repayment deadline for overpaid VAT is extremely simple. It is true, however, that it causes certain problems to the country in a liquidity sense, and that is true, we admit. However, did this government not talk before the performance about the objectives of the targeted budget? On the target of targeted budgetary planning? I know that Mrs Kamnar has heard this footnote from at least ten governments coming into power if not more. But it's not like that. When I read the balance, I don't know what the goals are now; is this a whole set of goals? In fact, it is very difficult to elude them, and we would expect that the objectives of the economic and financial crisis will still be carefully selected. We would be such as to enable the economy to develop, to grow, not just to survive. As a result, it is likely that any other objective could be slightly more in the fog in such specific years. In some ways, I think that the crisis or crisis is also an opportunity for actual budget restructuring or for some serious approach to the target of the targeted budget. The goals would be that, that, that. Now we're talking about how we can't find this 150 million because we have to, I don't know what else to do in the country, for example, pay judges and the like. Madam President, I see you're nervous and you're trying to stop me. I'm about to stop. The main intention of this law is, once again, and also of this amendment, that, prioritise or before worrying about the liquidity of the budget of the founders, budget makers deal with the liquidity of the Slovenian economy. This is what we wanted those who finance the state treasury, those who pay taxes, those of whom we all live together or half of Slovenia - to give some priority to the liquidity of those who fill this huge treasury, which is called the state budget. I see the government got a little kneeling, and she got back up and I see there's nothing going on this year; and that's what I'm worried about. I do not know when the time will come when we will actually realise that the situation is critical to this extent, that the Maastricht criteria on the deficit of the state budget will be dreamt. I think we only need a month to do this when the latest data will be on expected economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia, which will not be one on which the three percent deficit or 2.9 percent deficit is based, but unfortunately this is also due to the government's deaf ears and positions on the opposition's proposals. And one such proposal is this and one will be discussed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Istok Podkrižnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I think this is mainly about any measure that is very important to our economy. We know that our economic growth was planned quite high months ago, and we talked about a few percent. Today we're measuring this by saying we're close to zero. The question is, if we do not take these positive measures, there will be a big hole in our economy at the end of the year. But this is also about larger companies, and now we're talking about maybe smaller, medium-sized companies, and also big companies have today, and I'm going to say a little less orders than they did last year; in 10, 20, 30 or more percent. This measure, I think, would also be very welcome, but above all in the economy, it is a positive climate, because I think that economists today need to be helped with any measure to make them feel that the whole country is breathing with it. It is said that small businesses, medium-sized, large companies can also implement in any way these projects they have set up. I think that this will play a major role in the future, because today we know what is going on in the world and if we leave businesses, that they will not be able to develop, we will be behind in a year not for ten, twenty years for developed countries of the same size as Slovenia, but we will be behind for twenty or forty. That's what I think we should all be aware of. If we want to raise the standard that we have today and upgrade it, every measure is very important. I think this is important and should be our goal to maintain positive growth. So we're not going in a negative direction, which I think is very important for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would like to repeat the words of my associate Anton Rope, who reminded us that with the proposal we would like to implement, we will spend about 100 million euros to finance the economy with about one million euros. So at the outset, I would ask myself: where is the efficiency of spending hundreds of times more resources to achieve the goal? I understand the co-workers who are nodding their heads only if we ask which economic associate, because I believe that they have experts in this area too, I would tell them. In fact, with a shorter payment, it will be easy for businesses to pay off their loans in advance for one month and thus give them a slightly less interest, about a million euros. That's what this is about, and here, if we go down to the calculations, we'll get this data. As far as the measure is concerned, I believe that Mr Vizjak is working hard to achieve as much liquidity as possible, as he also showed in the actions three weeks after the state elections, when he paid nearly two million euros in his Phoenix Development Zone; three weeks after the state elections! This development zone has also caused a lot of controversy, a lot of questions, so I believe he's genuinely thinking about liquidity. However, such a measure would achieve very little, much less than what will cost us. In addition, please, let us not be flattened in our estimates of what the VAT refund deadline should be. It's not a matter of 7, 10, 14, 20 or 30 days, depending on how we wake up in the morning. This is a matter of assessing at which time the State is able to process all the requirements and at what time the State is able to repay that money. Because if we were to talk about principle, then we would say, let's just solve it by saying, "Look, economic societies, pay as much as you think you have to, but the rest doesn't have to pay at all." Isn't that the easiest way? Thus, no VAT will have to be refunded because it will not even have to be paid. But that's not the way it works, it's just not going to work, because we know that if we allow such freedom, there will be abuses. And in the same way there would be abuse if we talked about a 7-day or 14-day deadline. The information system will allow 21-day deadlines, peaks, less! Not less, unless the proposer brings a better program on the USB key to the menu or to the ministry, which will work faster. Please bring it and then we'll talk! One more thing. This transition would have been possible in 2005 if the then Minister for Finance of the Government, also a member of Mr Vizjak, had not replaced the Director of the Tax Administration, who had already worked on this project. Recovery within 21 days would be possible through the information system already in 2005. Why did the previous government replace the principal and thus make this transition impossible because there was no new call? This is, of course, a question that can best be answered by members of the then government. But now it is the second question of how we can do this best and most effectively and most reliably - only by adapting ourselves to technical requirements. Dreams are dreams, they're beautiful, but in the end, we have to face reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[The ad in the hall.]] Just a minute. You don't have any more time because you've spent it. As your candidate, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u54	No, look, I'm not going to use the time of the parliamentary group, because I have five minutes of the day schedule as the time of the proposer. Madam President, allow me to take a brief course on the rules of procedure. As the drafter of the law, I have the right at any time during the debate to clarify my position as a proposalr, within the five minutes that I am entitled to do so. And that's why I've used this business option, and I'm asking you to let me do it in the future, because today I'm going to be proposing another law, and I'd like to talk then, probably in the middle of it. But, look, that was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u55	One moment, Mr. Visjak. As a proposaler, you spent five minutes presenting the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u56	Mr. Anderlich will explain because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u57	Mr. Visjak, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u58	Look, there was obviously a misinterpretation of the basic intent of this marriage. In fact, the MP said, "we're going to use 150 million to make an impact of one million." We're not going to spend anything, we're going to pay back the money. Nobody's gonna spend anything! If you return something, then don't spend it! And I am deeply saddened by the solution they offer. This is saying, no, we will not return what is from the economy, let the economy rent credit. So if I lend someone money and they ask me back, I say, "What are you asking me to do now for this money, hire a loan, and you won't have a problem!" That's the logic you represent and defend here. I can't understand it, it's a twisted logic, forgive me! And one more thing, apparently, the government's attorney was put in place by the largest coalition party, which blurs out some relations between Parliament, the honourable President, and the government, because here they defend these solutions, those who were actually glad that as of January the government had landed on 30.6. of this year, and now all of a sudden this is not right and now they are looking for arguments that were obviously not there before - but they are now. Excuse me, this is actually a confusing situation; and once again, we will not spend anything, we will return to the economy because the economy is in bloody need of money so that we, after all, have wages here too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There is no replica, you will apply in the next round of discussion. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that on this law, whose intention was perfectly clear, that the deadlines for overpaid VAT should be reduced, we have somehow agreed that this is true. The purpose of this law, once again in the Slovenian National Party, is to move from 60 days to the minimum period - a deadline of 7 days has been proposed. We weren't and we didn't like to play like kindergarten: from 7 to 30, from 30 to 15, from 15 to 21, from 21 to 14 and so on. This is shopping without meaning, which suggests an unsettling attitude of the National Assembly. If it were our way, the Slovenian National Party would insist on a bill that said seven days. The excuses for controlling possible deviations, the excuses for the non-existent information system, I'm surprised that in Estonia they can do this within five days, and Estonia and the rest of the area are so poor that we don't think we can. I saw it. Buying around a fact just to politicize the essence of the law, which is to return money to the economy as soon as possible, because many are dependent on this tax return, is extremely unrealistic. In the Slovenian National Party of the SDS Amendment, which proposes 14 days to return income - and it is important that it also requires or proposes a return on interest - we support, although I say once again: we would rather support seven days. But as for interest and interest returns, every poor person in this State Republic of Slovenia - 200 thousand more will - get for the capital, I will say, 200 euros after three months of account, owes him 1200 euros because they charge him interest. Thank God it will be counter-effect once and that the interest on unpaid money that belongs to someone you have to pay back to be fair to all citizens and citizens, not only to the poor, but not to those who pay 60 days as they have time. We support the amendment, once again, for 14 days in full, by writing it, as agreed in the draft law, for 7 days. And please all my colleagues and colleagues, I will be happy to listen to them and we will hear that we are really talking about the purpose of this marriage, not that we are now going to finger and shop again. However, if you will allow me, Mr President, then I will not be able to comment, we will also absolutely support the SDS amendment in the Slovenian National Party, which speaks of the entry into force of this law the next day following its publication. Because if we're going to change some marriage, let's change it by having immediate effects, not once, if, if. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that again, Mr. President. Much has already been said and perhaps something new about VAT is really difficult. I also have no doubt about the good intentions of all Members to help the economy; the objectives and purposes are known and the paths may vary slightly. I think that it will be necessary to throw the cards on the table and bite into this sour apple and make a decision, even if it is at first so unpleasant for the country. I must say, I was also surprised by the Government's amendment proposing the application of this amendment to the 31st Amendment. 12. 2009 and 1 respectively. 1. 2010 In the SDS Group, we expected this law to enter into force immediately, because it would only help the economy in these times of crisis. As already said by colleague Vizjak, the second year is the second year and after the flood to ring is sometimes or almost always too late. On the government's argument on the budgetary deficit, however, I think that we should seek other alternative sources of funding to cover this liquidity gap, I stress liquidity, which the applicant has been stressing over and over again, is a liquidity outturn, not a government-funded outturn. And in my view, it is easier to do this for the country than for individual economic operators to be in debt and fight for their survival. As it is said, the economy must return as soon as possible what they have paid too much. Of course, it is best to do so as soon as possible, and now it is seven days or if it is not possible for seven days, but as we propose in our Group now with this amendment, fourteen days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, as you may have noticed, the debate was about both articles, not just one. I don't think they can be separated either, because they're just connected, meaningful. I will, because I believe that Article 2 is significantly more important than those fourteen or twenty-one days, later I will spend more time, but I will only say the following to this first amendment. I think that the "hairlifting" of the Tax Administration no longer makes any sense, as the Minister and his colleagues were already stuck in their argument at least a month ago. So the credibility of these deadlines has long gone wrong. Secondly, what I would like to say is that, in fact, it is difficult to understand how some colleagues who now imagine that this proposal is actually benign, that such an economy will not know anything, but that it will cause catastrophic damage to the budget, so widely supported in the economy. How is it that no one in this Slovenian economy understands that the economy is fighting for nothing in order to do enormous damage to the Government? I don't get it, and I reject it. All the contacts I have with those representing the Slovenian economy can be linked to a bouquet which speaks of the need for proposals before us and of no intention of harming the Government. I would ask that at least such a denunciation against our economy should not be acted upon. However, without any matter, I can support this 14-day deadline, the Tax Administration will probably be able to monitor this, but, as I say, these 14 days or 21 days are not even so important, what is important is what we are going to say when we make the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u66	Good day again. Today I was called by one of the presidents of one of the major companies. He told me that in the context of the discussions in the National Assembly and also in the competent ministries, we should think of one fact. In Slovenia we leave the possibility of importing goods both in the textile industry and in the food sector in the Middle East, so it is possible - if I go to the food industry - that it may even be a questionable commodity. And let's leave it on the other hand - as far as textiles are concerned, so we already know that this is a very problematic area of the economy and that this decision has obviously been made before this government started working in this mandate. If we could return or turn the time machine back a little bit, then if I were to summarize a little bit of my previous fellow Members' discussion, it would make sense to cut the payment deadlines immediately if the time machine were to turn back. And as someone had said earlier, "Cultural and democratic would have been if it had been" - and so I think - "if possible earlier, maybe two years ago it has been convenient to request and demand craft and entrepreneurship, including economies, then it has been a really good time." If I were to sum up my colleague Yuri's words when he said, "It would be like a dream to this day." At that time, this shortening of the repayment period could be even seven days if the Tax Administration with the information system would certainly allow this. The reduction of payment deadlines is not relevant to the reduction of tax control - I think we all agree with this - because this would result in less detection of tax wheel fraud. In this direction, we wouldn't operate, as someone said before, that the government got a little kneeling and went back. At the time of the appointment of this government, it was even said that the recession was not to say anything about it. Even I have been discussing economic and unemployment issues. It was once again said that the recession was six months ago. I don't understand why this kind of debate. However, I absolutely support the opinion and assessment of the Secretary of State of Mags. The Kamnars, who said they had decided at the Ministry of Finance what the liquidity impacts would be - on the measure, so where will we cut 150 to 160 million euros a month earlier - to meet the amendment proposal and the requirements. I think that we are and that we will try to get closer to each other in such a way that we will reduce the payment deadline from 60 or 30 days to 21 days. However, with amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, the Government has already ensured an ongoing reduction in the burden on legal persons by setting the amount of tax tax on the income of legal persons for 2009 to take into account the rate of tax that will apply in 2009 and not the rate of tax from the previous year as currently in force. In this way, the amount of economic tax advances paid will be closer to the amount of tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of the tax bill. The proposed measure will relieve the economy of liquidity. On the basis of the corporate income tax, the economy will be burdened with liquidity by around EUR 50 million per year. The previous discussions today have also been in the direction, and also in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, what if we also thought about something else - this has also been discussed today. If €150 million were directly allocated to the economy, what would be the direct financial impact - both businesses and, on the other hand, increased employment in us, not reduction. However, in the way that a colleague is currently proposed with the amendment, it is obvious that it will not work. Therefore, I propose that we accept the Government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for discussion. Please. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The shortening of the period of reimbursement of the value-added tax is only one of the segments of the aid to the economy to get its money back early in order to be able to invest in the necessary investments, including wages, since in most cases, as the economists say, they have to wait for a longer period of start-up of the liquidity of companies. It is unfair that the state sees itself and at the same time forgets that only the state treasury is dependent on companies that cash this and give bread to many citizens of Slovenia. The poor lending conditions of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, make the situation worse. It is necessary to correct payment deadlines and to regulate payment discipline so that it does not burden the functioning of companies. Companies as well as the country depend on short-term financial inflows. Of course, such behaviour increases competitiveness and stable employment. I believe that it is not in the country's interest to dismiss workers from the real sector, so I am counting on it to listen to the economy to improve the conditions for normal business. I support both SDS amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Maybe a few words for the introduction. This is the first time we've filed a law by emergency procedure. At the time, your colleagues opposed it, said that the law was not suitable for further consideration, so the second time we filed it on a regular basis and gave you a little more time to think about it. In the first reading, it removed all possible options to look at this law and what it would bring, and then the government reacted slightly differently. So you've obviously decided together to support the marriage or, if I may say, "let it go on" so that we can say something more about it in future. Perhaps we had little naive expectation that you had done so honestly because you probably knew what you were going to do at the time. First, we will find a number of days together in which this overpaid VAT would be returned to companies. Let's say we listened here and also heard and found a common solution, that is, a 21-day proposal. Nevertheless, we are proposing an amendment with which we want to shorten this deadline. But that you had foreseen that this measure would only be adopted in 2010 is a little too much. Along with your president, Prime Minister, explaining how you are helping the economy and how you are doing this today is very funny. And to document and explain what the Tax Administration can or cannot do, and whether the change in 2005 was appropriate or not. As far as I know, and in view of all the changes that have taken place in the tax area and the changes that we have also adopted with the help of the Social Democrats in the previous mandate, there have been many changes to which the Tax Administration has had to respond and has had to establish a system. I guess we've all forgotten that we've been filling out forms, a statement of income, and something else to make it easier to report to the economy and so on. I don't think it's that bad and the Tax Administration is gonna be able to do all this. I don't understand this logic that you're saying that we're going to pick up 150 million in the economy now, and then we're going to give them something and help them. We propose the refund of overpaid VAT because we have already said that we are returning what is already from the economy. And with this money we could do much more: invest, invest, not turn their money around for the sake of - as your prime minister said - that we are going to the social state; which is of course important, but we will not be able to pay social money if the economy does not bring money into the state budget. I will therefore support the amendment proposed in Article 1 to shorten the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT from 21 days to 14 days and to impose on the Tax Administration to implement these things, not to guarantee whether they have an information system or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u72	It is rhetorically very easy for the public to explain that we are finally returning money that is not state money. And that's true. It's rhetorical, it's very easy to explain. But please be correct until the end. Please explain to the public that there are ongoing payments, there is a current public financial system consisting of revenue and expenditure which usually start on 1 January of the current year and end on 31 December of the current year. This means that the budget of a given year takes into account what is from 1 January to 31 December, which means that if we reduce the VAT payment, we will pay 13 times in one year and receive VAT 12 times. Is that right? Hold it! Therefore, the state will have to pay 100 million more than it will get because it will pay 13 times and will receive 12 times. And let's be clear, I've drawn this for you, twelve times it's going to get a hundred thirty, and now twelve times it's going to pay off one hundred thirty - that's true. If she has to pay thirteen times one hundred thirty, that'll mean minus one hundred thirty. Is that right? That's what he's holding. These are numbers, and we can't make it up here. Once again, such a payment amounts to a drop in government revenue in 2008 of one hundred and thirty million and amounts to a credit rating for the economy of around one million euros. Is it not more valuable to use this resource in a more efficient way or in a social field that is essential this year, and we are aware of the importance of socialism, we know that this was also the main mandate for which we have been given the responsibility of leading the country, and we will stick to it. Yes, the social sector is important, whether in the economic field with subsidies, with calls and so on. I would like to remind you that the credit rating company "Kofash" has already reduced Slovenia's credit rating as a number of other countries. We must not risk once again reducing this credit rating in 2008 at the expense of this measure, which will mean raising all credits, both for the country and for businesses. So what we're going to do on one side is we're going to do on the other side again. And the credit that the trader or entrepreneur will wish to receive tomorrow at any bank in Slovenia will be more expensive because of this. This is not a meaningful measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Jerovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I have a feeling in this House that we are sitting on one side of this House, that we have a conscience about an economy that we have come out of an economy that we know what creating added value is and we know that someone has to actually create added value, that is, a new value, something to produce either developmentally or directly. On the other hand, there are Members who are extremely concerned about the state nursery. And most of the time, there are also those who have spent their entire lives in state nursery and real value added, for some new product, some new creation, in development that brings added value - probably never worked in Velenj. For this reason, I also see on the government's side such rejection of aid to the economy that overpaid VAT returns quickly. In this regard, I will say two Slovenian talks in this debate, which should sober the symbolic government a little. One says, "quickly yes, twice yes." Today, it is important that the fast economy that is in trouble returns this money so that they can reinvest it in new added value. And the other, which is particularly symbolic of this government, is that "a boy will never sleep with a pretty girl." And it seems to me that the government is in the current situation, when it needs to act quickly, extremely hard. Cagasm is a characteristic of this government. You say, "Yes, but you wouldn't; but you wouldn't," and in the end, "I wouldn't." And you're not ready to return in time, and you can't count on a government like that to get out of the crisis quickly. Because of the fact that we are actually talking about paying back value added tax today, and I think positively - because I know that it's not just that - I even care that my colleague Yuri is talking about his co-workers here, that he's a member of the Robbery, and that he's talking about us as co-workers. In this context, I take the word "work" as those that actually contribute to added value. And we're colleagues. And maybe you've been coworkers in the state nursery your whole life. That's different. Let me go back to the fact that the government can't make the right decision, but ministers can't make the right decision. I think that in the first debate on this law, because it was up to date, I have cited the case of Minister Beast concerning Tina Maze. I'm going to repeat it today because it's even more explicit. What does the right, the rightful Minister's decision mean - courage. Last year, he decided to support Tina Maze on this separate path, although the team's professional headquarters said that "the story passed Tina Maze". Now his beastly decision has helped Tina Maze to win a silver medal in the world championship, now standing on the stairs and promoting Slovenia all over the world. I am afraid that this is also the reason that it is not the real minister who has supported it from the right government, and I have not observed anywhere that the new school minister would accept it, which has always been the case. I didn't track it! Which is rude, and I must say that I protest against such separatism, politically literally. What is the biggest promotion of Slovenia, since it was decided by another minister from another government, is now to be silenced. Look, this is how you decide everything. We don't like this law because the opposition has submitted it to you because it was done to you by the previous government, and you don't accept it now. I call on the government, discard the greed, replace the ministers who are the bags, and give their seats to the right people who know what the economy needs, how the economy will be able to turn money around, because in this way we will achieve a way out of the crisis, otherwise the crisis will deepen and we will all deepen into this mud together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you. Were you appointed? Namely? He was talking about everything. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u76	Presidents, I propose that you follow the debate better for the second time and then you will have no doubts. Mr Jerovšek, I think that you have been alone on the shoulders of the statemen around the time that I became a senior. By October last year, I was one of those who, through VAT and corporate income tax and income tax, paid your salary in your state nursery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. First of all, I would say that I myself have worked in the economy more than most, or that many are not nearly as old as when they came to Parliament, so that no one will tell me - and I don't think Mr Yuri, I admit that, but in general. There has been a lot of talk about this law and VAT return, but I regret to say that we have not come to some common conclusion, namely, that it is the money of the economy. It's not the money of the state, it's the money of the economy. And if there were to be a return, the state would not give something, but would only give back what is not actually hers, but through the procedure it is. We must be aware that this is the money of economic operators. It is unacceptable to talk about budgetary problems due to the short period of reimbursement of overpaid VAT. Let me just give you an example of numbers when we've talked so much about them today. Rumor has it that there would be a fallout, I think a monthly drop of 130 million euros would have come back sooner. With excise duties, the government received 300 million euros a year. Is that right? I think he is. It is said that excise duties have brought more than those possible if I can say "output" under quotations, if we go on those 7 days or, well, even 14 days; however, that is irrelevant now. Math says so. This is said to be more than just a trifle thing. Because of the price of oil, oil derivatives are said to have been valued in the world markets, despite the fact that this energy was valued in the world’s markets. Okay, but these are facts, and that's true. We can't deny that. Of course, the excuse for the ability or ability of the information system in the Tax Administration is unjustifiable. A colleague of Jerai’s mentioned earlier what the advantages were at that time. That is to say, if we could do anything about the income forecast, we could probably cut something down here. But of course it suits us to talk about the ability of the information system, and somewhere it was said 21 days. At first it was said that it was impossible. Well, then someone probably got engaged, and he said 21 days. Granted, even 21 days is significantly better than now when it is 60 or 30 days, depending on where the products are sold. Hold on, that's better. But there's something else. It is a little inappropriate to talk about some financial spins, what would happen if this deadline were to be reduced for 21 days, because all companies are not likely to be able to tax evasion, and perhaps because of the bad cases that are always in all areas, to put everything in the same basket, but now that everyone is taking advantage of this tax evasion, that is probably not the case. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the country would like to help, which is commendable; other countries in Europe and around the world are doing so. But let us make a different point. The State is also seeking to help with loans, begging and asking banks to release bank funds, also providing money through such or other forms of lending. Now I ask you, isn't it better for the company to get its money back sooner than it doesn't have to have it, and the country is helping with the loans. And the company, instead of having its own money, has to take a loan that makes sense that it has to pay interest. And now it's a situation, and I'm gonna caricine a little bit, so when the auction says, you give me the money, and I'll give you the money back, so of course you pay the interest, I'll give you the credit, the rough stuff. That's about the way it is, otherwise it can't be. If the company has funds in the country for sixty days, let's say, if that's the way it is, in the sixties it needs some money to take credit. He'll pay interest for that. You can nod, but that's it! Ask the bankers if he will receive a free interest-free loan and, of course, the state will also help with some forms of credit. That's facts and that's true. And the next thing I want to say is that if an economic operator wants to have credit, he wants to get credit, he has to prepare a programme for it, and this programme is not free. And then you don't know if that program's gonna be "burned" or you're gonna get credit or not. That too, Mr. Chappich, you can nod off as much as you want, that's what it is. Ask banks, ask economic operators whether they need to prepare a programme to do so. Oh, yes, they do! And that program has to be paid for! And it is not necessary for any economic operator to have qualified people for this, to prepare for him a poem that will be sufficient to receive credit. Not everyone has an entity, because not all the big ones have a hundred, two hundred, five hundred employees or a thousand employees to have people like that who are capable of -- or on the basis of the bank's criteria -- to get credit, to prepare such a programme. But if you get a VAT refund, which is your money anyway, it's something else. And the liquidity situation is significantly different if you have your own resources, or if you have to ask for credit; it is fundamentally different. And one more thing, the President of the Government and the members of the Government probably wouldn't ask and propose or what term to use, a positive expression of course, let the bankers relax for God's available lending funds. If economic operators had their own resources, that would not be necessary, that is the logic and that is the case. And to conclude, I will conclude with the thought of my fellow Member who spoke of a big boy. That is also true, in most cases it holds and, as he said, the government would once give, but it would not give again - I will finish with that famous comedy that we all knew, "I, of course, just not tonight, maybe another time." And you suggested the "once again" at 31. 12. 2009 Take another look at that thing about the puppy and you'll see, and you can compare it to the guy in the bag, and maybe we can come up with that 31st amendment. 12. we will not confirm, but we will accept this because it holds all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Madam Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Dear Members and Members. In the Slovenian People's Party, we fully agree with the proposal that the deadline for the refund of value added tax should be reduced. The government found that the shortest possible time limit for the refund of the value added tax was 21 days. This is because it is the shortest possible period within which adequate control can be ensured of the most risky taxpayers involved in the frauds of the tax whirl, to enable the verification of the value added tax accounts and to pay back the value added tax. At the same time, this is a deadline that will not have too much impact on the deterioration of the liquidity of the budget and the country's single treasury account, and the Government also thinks. Why only in the second half of the year or after 31 December 2009? In terms of liquidity, the government states that it would be most unfavourable to implement this reduction in March 2009 or half of 2009 in general, it is now proposing that the measure be applied to the tax accounts to be paid for the tax periods after 31 December 2009. More specifically, the government did not justify what March or half of 2009 was supposed to be such a bad time. If the Government is already referring to the liquidity of the budget when amending tax legislation, it would be right for the National Assembly to take note of the measures and levers it has in providing greater liquidity itself, such as: to provide a modern information system that will provide quality support and measures for more effective tax control, measures to increase the effectiveness of tax recovery, measures to reduce bureaucratic barriers to tax collection and tax collection, and thus to relieve entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs with unnecessary administration. In the Slovenian People's Party, we point out that it is high time for the Government to respond to problems in the economy daily with all its services and bodies. Reasonable and swift decisions must be sought. These should not be subordinated solely to the argument of ensuring the short-term liquidity of state finances. All measures should be based on the liquidity of the economy. Only a liquid economy is a long-term marriage to liquid public finances. We get out of the liquid economy so we can cover social. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law as suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I find that the SDS party is a party with a conscience, which is good. However, in doing so, I feel a lot of bad news about things that she did not do in her previous term when she had the chance, and she wants to do so now. However, this year's situation from a liquidity perspective of the budget would mean a reduction in the deadline this year, from a liquidity perspective of the budget, something bad. Someone said at the previous meeting, but what if we break the Maastricht limit of 3% of the budget deficit! It's not that simple. In this case, interest would be increased which the state would seek outside for its budget. It would be harder to get credit. This is already happening to Greece and Ireland. So, even though I think it makes sense to cut back on 21 days, it makes even more sense for me to do so at 31. 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't really understand that we're even talking about such a banal matter, that I'm not going to say - or, rather, we're fighting. We are talking about funds that are not owned by countries that are not owned by the budget. However, I agree, Mr Yuri, with you that there is a liquidity deficit when we are talking about a year. But if we look at two years, it's not. Is that right? Here. On the one hand, we are talking about how we would like to help the economy, and on the other hand we do not want them to, I stress, we do not want to return their money as soon as possible. We don't want to do this. It is said that either the bank spasm or the credit bank spasm or whatever his name was, he gave up. That's just not true. You don't talk to economists? Don't you have any information about what's going on in the economy? Shower, we all know the Tush, he didn't get the credit. That's impossible. An economic company with an estimate of one of the better ratings in this country does not get credit. Catastrophe! And we'd rather say, obviously, again, under the terms, "manage" the banks that are now in this time of crisis -- I'm going to say the sharp word again -- "they don't want" to properly service the economies, even because in the past they may have made some wrong business move. Instead of directly helping companies with liquidity in this case. Well, we'd rather serve banks than help the economy. I am talking about priorities; therefore, what is actually a priority in crisis mitigation measures. And I stress that, at this point, the biggest cancer in our economy is liquidity. Liquidity is a problem, dear colleagues and colleagues. And we're talking about whether we're coming back in 14 or 21 days, which I don't think is such a big deal. The problem is that it has to be done immediately, not in a year, for God's sake! And once again, ask yourself what the priorities are. Priority is given to helping the economy at a time when liquidity is at stake. Bank, I'm stressing again, so this credit crunch didn't go away. I don't know why he didn't. It would also be useful to look at the fact that the State owns some banks, what is actually happening in these banks, why credit is not available, especially at this point in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think the essence of this proposal is exactly what has been said last time. The fact is that this so-called credit spasm did not give up, except for some, but it does not refer to the development of the Slovenian economy. Today there was a lot to be heard in the debate and it would be very good to know first what we are talking about - about understanding this proposal. What the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing is that the money that is theirs will be returned to the companies faster. It is said that it is a faster refund of overpaid VAT, from 30 or 60 to 14 days, and that this measure is implemented immediately. What the Government proposes after all the peripetions and amendments to the opinion it has already changed several times during the procedure of this law is that this deadline should be set for twenty-one days and that it should be implemented on 1 January next year, with a one-year delay. At that time, Your Honor, there will be no need to accept this. This measure is important now and is only one of the measures to be taken to release or ensure greater liquidity of the Slovenian economy. It's just one of the measures, but we're not the government. It has not taken responsibility for these matters, the Slovenian Democratic Party, if you have forgotten after the last elections, but you have taken this responsibility and you are expected to take the initiative and measures. We are merely helping or trying to help in this matter. Unfortunately, we've obviously failed at this. Arguments against this proposal. They have been repeated several times, and we have found that they do not abstain from serious judgment. Not even serious judgment in this hall, let alone professional judgment! The argument that was raised does not support the tax administration's information base. Don't hold on! Second argument, "we will increase the budget deficit over 3% and with this we will go over Maastricht" - no hold, no hold! Since this is a liquidity outturn for which the figure is substantially overvalued, as you mentioned it, it would be if Janša's government still ruled, because the VAT drop would not be so great, because the measures would have been taken significantly faster than you now record; but we have warned you about this three months ago. I told this room months ago that the VAT spills would start to shrink dramatically, but you were sitting there, I don't know where. This is happening to you and will happen to you in the coming months. However, you have passed a law which essentially burdens the budget on liquidity, subsidisation of working time and does not contribute to the increased activity of the Slovenian economy; even reduce this measure of yours and the money goes to waste. Under the form of some quasi sociale, which even the unions opposed, you have thrown hundreds into nothing or millions of budget money - I am talking to the euro. Thus these arguments are simply gone and I don't know why it takes so much convincing about one smaller one of the measures that had to be taken immediately - better yesterday than today - in order to give impetus to the Slovenian economy, that your government doesn't care what happens tomorrow. Then it was repeatedly exposed why the previous government did not do so, why the former government did not do so in the time of so-called "fat cows". I don't know if some of you are sitting on your ears. At a time when liquidity was good, when everything was overheated, you yourself talked about overheating the economy, further overheating the whole story with liquidity acceleration. If you don't believe me or smile at me, Mr Kontič, I will quote you from your former Minister of Economy, Mr Max Tynikar, when he was dealing with millions of then German brands TAM, which eventually failed, millions of German Marks disappeared unknown. Recently in the TV club he said: "Now there is no such package, so I say that if the Yangsze government actually lit fire at a time when it was very hot, Pahorje actually succeeded in putting that fire out at a time when it was getting very cold in the economy." That's what your former Minister of Economy said days ago if you don't believe those who ran this department in the past term. You don't believe me, obviously. The words quoted to you, too, are not authentic, obviously. Another such faction: a while ago you claimed there was no recession, but now you claim it was a recession and you would have done nothing to prevent it. Pay attention to who claimed the recession was in this country before the elections? A party of Social Democrats and those who now rule with the exception of one party. You claimed that there was a recession when we recorded 4% of economic growth in this country. You were the one who started this story that way. We have said that economic growth is slowing down, that it will be significantly lower in the coming year, this year 2009, but that we will not go down, with the exception of many other countries, and that we will be one of the few countries that will nevertheless record positive economic growth. And that's what predictions are all the time. Despite what you are not doing, there is still a forecast that this economic growth will be at a minimum rate of 0.6% positive; but I must say that, given what is happening now or what is not happening, be sure that this forecast will also change down. But now we are at the extreme point or we have already crossed it, because of the passiveness, when Slovenia is obviously going into recession, because of non-action, despite many positive proposals. This is what I should say: with all these indications, what was not done at the time we had the opportunity to manage public finances. Much has been done, from simplifying tax legislation to eliminating taxes on paid wages. The tax on paid salaries was abolished by gradual effect, the last part of January 1st of this year in the mandate of the Janša government, until the tax base was reduced from 50 per cent to 41 per cent, until the minimum tax base was reduced from five to three tax classes, to a number of tax concessions in the economy, for businesses and entrepreneurs, who each contributed in their own way to a very fast, much faster-facing economic cycle than in other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you. Please, was the smile misunderstood? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u88	Well, in the hope that at least you understand me, I will certainly use this replica because the rules of procedure give me this opportunity. There was a period of fat cows, and then we should ensure that these fat cows remain in the stables as they were, and perhaps provide some food supplies for the dry season that we are now witnessing to them. In the beginning [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr Petan, it would be no shame for you, too, if you went to feed at this time, for peace will be at the hall in this case. There have been many good things done in the past period, and we have said so many times. Errors have been made, and you don't want to admit them. But the essential point of this is - because the replica is, I have to be brief, and in doing so I am disturbed - that you want to say that with this measure that could have been implemented in the previous period, and from the surplus economy the head would not have hurt, surely if this had been adopted in the previous mandate, now you want to save the economy. You don't want to help the economy, you start a demagogy with this law. And what is your purpose? Your aim is to put the budget at risk and then say, "Look, now you've been through this, which is also limited, so with 3% of the obligation, you've done it and now you're responsible." That's what you want to do with these moves! And I don't understand your actions as helping the economy or finding a way out of the crisis. It's purely mere conjecture and demagogy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u89	Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u90	Dear President, a very grave insult has been said to our fellow Member, which I will try to repeat. It was said in the context of fat cows, and after that, it was said to our fellow Member, Mr Petan: "It would be no shame for you to go and eat instead of..." and so on. We know what this statement meant in the context and how this insult was expressed. It is an underestimating attitude towards a fellow Member who has not offended Mr Kontić with anything, so I propose that Mr Kontić be asked to apologize. As I say, however, how can we risk a billion EUR 133 million of the projected budget deficit in 2009 with € 120 million? It's about the good guys. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u91	Mr. Blackach, procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u92	good 10%, nice [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u93	Is it a suggestion? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u94	Please. [[...]] Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic should apologize to Mr. Petan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u95	Good. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you again very much for your word. Look, respected colleagues from the coalition and, of course, the government. This item on the agenda that we are considering is so important for our economy that it would probably be considered that the entire ministerial assembly or at least the Minister of Economy would sit here for development and some of those key ones. Although it is a short point of the agenda, it is extremely important. If every country had as constructive an opposition as we are, I think it would be easier for many people. For, these laws, these proposals are intended exclusively to help us get out of the situation that Slovenia is also in. If I continue where my colleague, Černač, quoted Mr Secretary - in Slovenia, not only is it getting cold, I think it is already freezing if I upgrade his expression a little bit, but unfortunately the government has no idea how to ignite some minimal fire, some optimism that would begin to radiate some better results into our economy. Colleagues from the position and the government, if you ask our economy, give some reading to the media that are yours, how they evaluate your work, your responses to the situation that is coming. Negative! You have no idea, you don't want to listen to constructive suggestions from the opposition, the economy and those who are familiar with these matters. That's right! The crisis is becoming more and more severe in Slovenia. We can see this, but the effects of this crisis, which is even deeper beyond our borders, would be smaller if we acted in a timely manner. It's been 100 days, but there were no concrete solutions. See, the only law you've passed on subsidizing working time - what effect has it had? He was criticized by all: employers, trade unions, the opposition, and rightly so. It's supposed to go over 200 million money basically to nothing. The fact that we're saving some jobs is probably more like that for hair. But here you are now referring to these 100 million liquidity problems that would, say, arise! I think we must all be aware that the economy is hungry for money. I have conversations with a number of economists, good companies that have products or their services sold but do not receive payments. This is the problem, and many of them look at the bank account each morning with a problem or a shaking hand to see whether or not there is an inflow - but many times it is not. That is why every euro is important for the economy, for large businesses, and even more important for small businesses. And with such a proposal as the SDS proposes, I think that a number of such problems would be solved by their money - I stress, their money - being returned as we do now rather than spending some of their money. It is commendable, at least I have discussed in the previous hearing that the Government has listened to this, as well as some coalition Members, then I have given you a public thanks that you supported the first hearing that you went against this proposal. And already on the committee itself, when the amendment was to extend this to 21 from those of our proposed 7 days, it was a step in the right direction. We now offer you the opportunity to be for 14 days, even this is better than 21, the best will be 7. But look at the fraction, and now you put into effect that this law enters into force at the end of this year! Then I think it'll be too late for a lot of people. I would be happy if the Government would be prepared to make a transitional provision for the end of the year or 1.1.2010 to come into force for a period of 7 days, but not for that provision to come into force at that time. And one more thing. It is right that we are all aware of the liquidity problems that may arise, but we must be aware of them, dear colleagues and colleagues, in all areas. Here you are so afraid for these 130 million euro liquidity problems, at least as you estimate, we are confident that this will not be the case, but on the other hand, there is no concern that the decisions are being issued to the deleted without the matter being systematically resolved, where the damages will go to a billion or more euros, and there is no government, Minister of the Interior, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance or you from the coalition concerned. Please, where is your sincere purpose for the state budget and fate of Slovenia, and above all our economy! Be aware, it will save us from these problems only the economy, not us here, the economy, but if we take solutions here that will also help the economy. So once again, accept this amendment that we have proposed, go to the opposite - not us, the economy is asking you, not us. I hope you'll listen to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Someone earlier said that the former government was putting fire at a time when it was fifty-five degrees in space. This high temperature of space and the external environment was fueled by an international conjuncture, and we were still loading and loading fire. What have we accomplished with this? Today, when we have problems with this flame and the flames are becoming more and more fibrous cranes, we would still need those trees that were carelessly and needlessly roasted in the previous term. In these discussions, someone in the package on Vision's Laws has already said that Andrej Vizjak is the best former minister to have today, when the opposition MP, a series of creative ideas and good intentions on how to unload the economy. The question, which is still not answered, is why we did not impress you when he had all the options, but also the favourable public financial conditions for making this a burden on the economy in a situation where the state could afford it. A tense public financial situation, small if not even a minimal impact on the decommissioning of the economy and an extremely high risk to the country's creditworthiness, resulting in banks, economies and populations. All of this is a common outline of this, which could describe the opposition's proposals. When we're talking about a hundred and thirty million [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u99	Did someone turn it on? Come on in. It'll have to wait. The microphone was not turned off, you probably turned it off yourself and a minute to wait, let it switch on or Oziroma, see if you're the last one on the list, I'll open the debate again and you'll sign up again. [[...]] Okay? Or as a proposalr, Mr. Vizjak has come forward, do you want to do it now? [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] The technique does not allow you to re-engage immediately if you have switched off once. [[...]] Try to get involved now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr President, for your understanding. I did not touch the button to exclude myself from the debate, so thank you for taking into account that I can conclude my debate as well as all the predecessors. There was something about whether or not we had exceeded the credit crunch. The key tasks of Slovenia as a country and as an economy must be to overcome at systemic level the causes that slow down economic activity today. First and foremost, it should be pointed out that the position and opposition were able to step together when we had to protect the position of Slovenian banks and the role of the population and the economy in the Slovenian banking area. Furthermore, it must be our common objective to ensure the smooth and stable functioning of the financial system. This must be our common goal and the government has reached some very important shifts in this area. Let me mention only the successful issuance of country bonds that will contribute again to making the economy more accessible to financial resources. Let me mention the measures under preparation and covered in the package of measures referred to by the Government. I am talking about two guarantee schemes to encourage banks to lend to the economy under more favourable conditions. It is also possible to discuss a package of technology calls that will directly encourage the economy, investment and, as a result, the liquidity of the economy. Out of €130 million, we create around €2 million savings for the economy, and this is only for one month. This is the effect of the proposed law on the entire Slovenian economy. We do not recommend this, we are talking about a better targeted approach to our actions. And let's look at the balance that the Slovenian government adopted on Thursday. Let me remind you that the planned revenues are falling, they are less than €204 million than originally foreseen. To add to this the commitments of the country, which you have also made in the form of electoral candy in the previous year, additional commitments by the state for 590 million, with the country planning for EUR 610 million of anti-crisis measures. I think we're in the right direction in this respect. Some data, including the resurgence of bank credit activity in the last month, indicate that we are on the right track and that it is worth attracting optimism that we will also successfully continue this path. On this path, however, it would be useful for the opposition to propose those measures, and I believe it is doing so with good intentions, which would actually contribute to an effective decommissioning of the economy and to strengthening the stability of public finances in the country. This is our joint task, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Vizjak has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u102	I'm afraid I'm running out of time within the task force, obviously. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u103	It was a mistake and it was fixed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Look, you're meeting on the previous mandate and on my work in this mandate and on my work in this mandate, it's very current. Look, as a Member, I have only proposed more laws to this Parliament than the Ministry of Economy intends this year. It's not my fault it's like that, but the bearer's marriage is the Funeral and Funeral Act. I don't know if you'll bury the economy. Moreover, other laws are more or less linked to the transposition of EU directives. If someone's working or out of work, I don't think that's bad. And if I just remember that in the last term, we have renewed all economic legislation - all of which is that we have solved some of the things that you - not specifically, your political predecessors - have cooked up, like the Trade Act and so on, where we have had a whole bunch of buried positions. And last but not least, this mandate has been economically the most successful, past mandate. It wasn't like that in all the countries. This was not the case in Italy, and it was not the case elsewhere. This was not a period where it grew on its own. And so please don't make a fool of yourself. Make a fool of your achievements, not out of your ignorance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you. I guess there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm reopening it. You weren't appointed. I am reopening my application for debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Levanic, you have the floor, please. I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you to sign up again because there's been a mistake. Report for discussion, please. Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Messengers and Members! We have tabled this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party for a very simple reason. After all, there are quite a few of us entrepreneurs. I know for sure over 500 entrepreneurs in Slovenia. They also gave me the maximum assurance of what it means to pay the VAT, which we never get paid back, or even in the '60s, or any day more. Here I would like to emphasise, we are talking about €130 million of resources that somehow the country will not have to pay back. You know, it's embarrassing what you're saying! Then don't give the money to those two billion wiped away, and you can give that money back to the economy, which is uninterested, which is their money, that's important. Third thing. You're still talking about how there's no money. Look, I'm going to show, like Luka Juri, here at Ljubljana City Hall, everyone around Ljubljana collects institutions that will fall under the country when the state finances these things. Don't do anything and don't get carried away about these things, because these things are very serious and clear. Second thing, why we support this amendment, why we support the 7-day deadline. We've landed on 14 and we've landed for 21 days and there's no way your wish to support it. Even among you are economists, only an economist with a 'fike in his pockets', some have failed - now they are the loudest. I certainly don't think this is Luke Yuri who smiled. Therefore, once again I appeal to you, as we have already said before about things, let us support this law, this law is important for the liquidity of Slovenian companies, because Slovenian companies are engaged in and stinging with liquidity, and by no means with the money they would lend, loan to someone and without interest get paid back in the 1960s or even later. So I hope that there will be so many of you in your pants that you will hope to vote that you will listen to the economy that has elected you to these jobs that you now have to think that the economy is giving you that you have a fifth month's salary. Why are you coming to pick up the payroll on the fifth? Come in a year. This is the position we need to take. Without a smile like that, believe me, this country will be better. That is why I want you to support this amendment, and I want you to take these things for the benefit of the economy, because you all live together from the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! For some time now, I have been listening and trying to understand the essence of this debate and the essence of this marriage proposal, which I have in principle supported, and I do not think is a fellow Member here who would not support the spirit of this law and this proposal. It is not a matter of depriving companies of funds, because it is a return, but we are also discussing the deadline for this return, and we all agree that this deadline should also be reduced. Therefore, the Government has tabled an amendment that clearly reduces this to twenty-one days while at the same time notes that there would be a hurry before 31. 12. 2009 a move which at this point would harm everyone, the state's public finances and indirectly the entrepreneurs. That is why I think this insistence on this amendment is one of the great economic entrepreneurship or pseudo-business demagogies. I belong to that part of the Members who was an independent entrepreneur until last year. I was an independent journalist, as a single journalist, I have repeatedly hoped that Mr Vizjak, as Minister, would arrange this unbearable state of standing, I waited two months to get back and VAT and part of the income, this did not happen in that mandate. Suddenly, the SDS appeared to want to speed things up at a time when the country, when the economy, when the social image of this country is in very severe distress. And what exactly is the subject of the dispute? It is only that the country which will refund VAT within twenty-one days proposes that this start at the end of this year. Look, for four years we've been waiting in the previous government for this to happen, and all of these factions about the success of the previous government seem a little bit exaggerated, and with all the benefits that the previous government has had in also a favourable VAT return, we've come up with a deficit of nine million deficits. This has not been as great a success as it is today. But the fact is that we are now in a serious crisis and this deficit that would have arisen, one hundred thirty million, would have only opened up a lot of questions because of excessive haste. After all, this slowing down of some attempts to tackle the recession and the financial crisis with some legal proposals is unjustifiable. Look, we have recently voted and voted on some important laws that plague the negative consequences of this crisis. I heard some mocking comments earlier on the subsidy bill. But the subsidies are here and they go to the economists. Where do we get this money for subsidies? True, the unions are not satisfied, but the economists will immediately demand these subsidies because they are still important. Not to mention other laws that plague the consequences. So it is tempting to talk about the fact that this government does not work and does not act properly and does not try to reduce these consequences. So, let's get back to the point. I'm not going to back this amendment because I think we're playing pink punk. Once, for the first time, the opposition came forward with a bill that predicted a week, then the government talked about one month, and then we came to 21 days. This was the compromise that, realistically speaking, everyone could accept, and then this amendment would appear and it would talk about fourteen days again. The seriousness or unreality of such an approach seems to me to be similar to the unreality of some of the numbers we hear in connection with the compensation for the erased. Earlier, someone had talked about one billion, and then a member of the same party who had been talking about two billion. Now I expect the next one to talk about three billion, etc. Let's stop this demagogy! Firstly, you do not know these numbers, you know precisely that compensation is a serious matter to be determined on the basis of judicial proceedings and individual proceedings, and please do not constantly pursue this demagogies. It is important that we get to the law that is appropriate, and the law that you are proposing with the amendment of the Government is that compromise that is being adopted as soon as possible, in order to maintain at the same time the financial stability of the public treasury, on the other hand, to open the way to actual changes that will allow VAT to be returned to companies within a short period of time. I think that this is the compromise that we discussed at the outset, but now, of course, for political reasons and prestigious reasons, there is a pseudo-business demagogy that does not convince us that we have been entrepreneurs until recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I think it would be very useful for Slovenian politicians to reconsider the declaration of good intentions and to acknowledge each other's common interest that in these difficult times we will do everything the state can to restart the country's higher economic activity, but at the same time safeguard the stability and health of public finances. The proposer discussed earlier how Slovenia recorded high economic growth in the time of the previous government. Yes! Let us not forget that this was a time of extraordinary international conjuncture, a time that is difficult to find in history, and that also that high plant and resulting overheating of the economy has led us to face today a time that is difficult to compare in history. It is important that we compare economic growth with comparable countries, that is, countries that have roughly the same GDP per capita as we have ourselves, but that some other parameters, such as inflation, are compared with the euro area countries because they are comparable. And this leads to two conclusions. Firstly, Slovenian economic growth was high in the previous period and was fueled by, unfortunately, mainly construction and other low value-added industries. Secondly, that economic growth between comparable countries, for example, the twelve new members of the European Union, was nothing special. There are countries between these twelve countries that have also had significantly greater economic growth than Slovenia. On the other hand, we have inflation, with which Slovenia compares itself in the euro area, says, within the European Monetary Union, and unfortunately, Slovenia has had the highest inflation; this is a problem that we have all come to know in the past government. Well, personally, I wouldn't want to diminish the significance and success of the previous government. I think that the previous government, if anything, has done nothing so wrong as to jeopardize economic growth. What's more, I think there's been a lot of good done at that time. I would, however, like the Social Democrats in the previous term to recognize the good in the previous government, a similar relationship, a similar political culture is also capable of opposition. No, you're doing everything today to destabilize the government coalition to destabilize the government in such difficult times. I ask you politely if you have any partnership, if you have any interest in the interests of the Slovenian state and the health of the Slovenian economy, so that we can cool down the temperature of Slovenian politics a little bit, because I think this will be the best way to help the economy recover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and coworkers! Previously, it has been said that we do not want to listen to constructive suggestions. There's a little contradiction here. For if it were true that we did not want to hear constructive proposals, this debate today would not be at all, because the law would have fallen at first reading. It is not true that we do not want to listen to constructive proposals, unless it is not only what someone demands, but we have already seen what happens when something is not accepted that someone demands - blackmail even on the face of a country abroad; I hope that this will no longer happen. As my former co-worker and friend Matvež Frangež, should mention the updated list of measures to revive this government's economy. Regulation on the criteria and conditions of current loans under Article 81a of the Public Finance Act, Regulation on criteria and conditions for issuing guarantees under Article 86a of the Public Finance Act. A new reference bond was issued on 5 February. As has already been said, in the field of public procurement, the Government has already adopted a decision on 15 January establishing a single agency and therefore a more rational procurement agency. In the area of wage system, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has frozen the salaries of directors in the public sector and beyond. On 12 February 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law on temporary reduction of salaries of officials. We have increased the incentives for investing in equipment and not in the funds in question. We have set up additional facilitations in the field of investment in transport assets, as you know, we are now discussing this too. We have passed the Full-time Subsidisation Act by providing work for shorter working hours, and this law is not so insignificant. For we have linked aid to the economy by providing employment. For let us not forget that the economy is only one part of our concern. The other part of our concern is people who live off the economy. We must therefore continue to ensure employment as far as possible. We have arranged for the reduction of meetings and awards in public companies. I remind you how these meetings and awards have increased astronomically over the last four years. We have arranged to co-finance the purchase of new technology equipment, co-financing of development investment projects. This year, too, the first venture capital company will be operational and, last but not least, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will finance technological development with forty million and an additional eighty-five million will finance research into new technological achievements. But I will stop here because if it doesn't last long, if we continue to count everything the government has done so far in an area where you say it hasn't done anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that when I hear the debates in the National Assembly over and over again on some of these, I believe that politics has done itself many times in the past a bad service because people really do not want to or cannot listen to the floscules that sometimes occur in the highest temple of democracy. We must be aware that we are together with the desire to save part of the economy, to try to help as much as possible in order to come up with a common solution during this period - the twenty-one bottoms, which is a good solution. I would like to see that, at a time when this was possible, all that you are proposing today is settled when we had really good results in the economy. I don't know why it wasn't necessary at the time or why your suggestions weren't acceptable to you at the time or why you didn't propose them at all. Mr Bezjak says that the entrepreneurs convinced him that it would be good to do so, so that the deadline could be reduced to 7 or 14 days. How come entrepreneurs haven't convinced him of the previous term? Has he been an entrepreneur for the last three months? What are you doing? This is a condition you knew about in the past. This is a condition you could fix, and you didn't. With your suggestions, dear colleagues and colleagues, Slovenia would still be in a bigger crisis than today, on the sole account of the policy you want to play because you want to gain political points and do not want to work for the good of citizens and citizens. This government has adopted two packages of measures and has taken a huge step towards resolving the situation within three months. We can all realize that everything can't be done overnight, but that it's an honest intention to move things forward. The individual measures or pre-election measures you took in the previous mandate called for funding of EUR 500 million, which you did not provide in the budget, in the state budget. This was done by this government, which provided 590 million for those projects that you imagined. And of course, Mr Vizjak, it is funny to you now, because you obviously have no sincere intention of somehow correcting things now and constructively performing with the Government in finding those common solutions that would be real. The government has earmarked an additional 600 million in this budget balance to address the economic and financial crisis. Where are you with your suggestions, if, in concrete terms, you could really help in that sector whenever possible?Oh, my God! I would like all these suggestions, yours, which were somehow given, to be accepted. Nobody talks about not wanting to help the economy, more than ever we want to help ourselves during this period! But not at the expense of demagogies, not at the expense of public finances, which are currently very burdened and which will also be burdened in the future! We are looking for opportunities elsewhere, I think that the time of economic crisis must be a time of new opportunities and new ideas, including projects that are left in drawers and that can now be given an opportunity to revive. I would like it not to be a trivial matter for you to make this a partnership plan for you, along with all the parties, and not to propose projects or ideas in the National Assembly that would jeopardize the financial situation of Slovenia. I hope that you are well aware of this and I want you to accept everything you have proposed when you have had this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Visjak as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear young man, you have used a lot of hard words, quite needlessly. I don't intend to answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u117	I'd like you to check on the timing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u118	Okay, whatever. Look, all I did was answer the phone because both my previous personality and mine were challenged by what we did to help and so on. As soon as the previous government was doing technical work and the new one was coming, we proposed some laws, including two current government summaries and arrests. And some of the measures he was bragging about - yes, specifically the Banking Act and the Public Finance Act. That's right, the one who denies it is moving. On the basis of these laws and especially the Public Finance Act, two regulations have been adopted, which is actually a technical implementation, and it is kind of said that both laws have been created together with a single objective, which is to mitigate the consequences of the emerging financial and economic crisis. We also proposed a few other proposals at the time; you did not immediately collect them, you rejected them, in fact you did not feel that you were considering them at all. Also, let's say a law that regulates tax reliefs for investing in equipment you refused, later you accepted it, in part. And once again, boast that this is your law, even though it is the law that the opposition has put into the procedure. At first refused - then accepted. Since we have actually gotten used to this confusing work, we suggest that we move on, because we hope that at least something will happen - in the end, that you will only find that you will finally accept it. I can see that we are on the right track to slowly "war" us, just hoping that you will not get this economic growth even lower than nothing, because from 5% to zero you already have.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Levanic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Visjak, what you're saying is simply not true. And it is right that once and for all we should say something sincere in the National Assembly and not deceive the public in overturning words. I must say that no one boasts about his laws or his proposals. If anyone is, then this government has praised some of the moves of the former government and together, when solutions to individual laws were sought, this has happened. I would also like it to be so in the future that you will not propose proposals that would lead Slovenia into an even bigger crisis. Because what you're doing right now is completely irresponsible and you're misleading the public with your statements that you want to constructively help this government that has done nothing. That this government brought the economy from 5% to 0.5, but it's total demagogy. You know that, and that's what all the data shows. So, Mr Vizjak, please, as a politician, have at least so much honor to tell the truth and tell people what is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u121	I apologize for giving the opportunity for a replica, although Mr Levanic was not appointed. We continue the debate. Mr. Anderlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u122	You'll be able to talk later. In fact, we would be mature for the Nobel Prize for Economics if we could solve all the things you said about one and the other here today by means of a two-member law. It is simply not right for the Slovenian public to spend our illusions, that everything that the economy needs today can be done here, in order for the citizens to be better tomorrow, and the country would take it well in doing so. It doesn't even make sense to start with this law. Congratulations, Mr Vizjak, you have successfully filled the space from 1 to 100 days, so that you have come to a discussion with some matter, which is legitimate, which is in a place that is useful and so on. And here's the main reason these cards have a little pale accent. The government offered a hand, looked for solutions, and came up with some sort of solution that I think was real. The fact that she received bad information from the Tax Administration points me to some other things that I would not be talking about today. Because the transition from one authority to another interferes and does something not well - intentioned. But I'm really not gonna talk about it here. I have a problem with this marriage: once 7, then 14, the government 24. I even thought that 30 days in the two previous discussions that had taken place, and in the arguments that I heard from the Government, by the Tax Administration, and I don't know what else, about the information system, about the sustainability of public finances and so on, that there will be a 30-and-a-half-year deadline for the implementation of what it says. Now that some things are going on, we're going to get "the things under the blanket" once again, which are once at 7, the second at 14, the third time at 21 days. I firmly believe that this law, if immediately adopted in the original text - for 7 days, would not save the economy, nor would it bury the country, nor would it. But I thought it was important to talk honestly. For the first time, I abstained. For the second time, I voted for the law. And today I will also support the amended law prepared by my mother's working body. I think he's still where things belong. I will not support your amendment, nor do I even understand how the amendment of the Government can be tabled in such a way, because one amendment has already been tabled for the second reading and another amendment; but let us leave it. It's never fair, however, that you let others know how the hell they are, how they don't understand the economy, how they care about themselves, how they care about the state budget, and so on. Why will I be able to vote in favour of the marriage as supplemented? If anything else happens, I'm not going to back him up, or I'm not going to argue with him. Because I believe that with the rebalancing - in a bad month we will deal with it in this assembly - we can solve those differences that would arise - only in liquidity, nothing else - if nothing else, with a slight delay for the party thrown and collected money - for example, only with the patriots or anywhere else. Just with a little bit of a twist, [[...]] [[A flash of fingers.]] This is how you do it! [[...]] You know this even more because you have an expert in defense and all things at the head of your client. It would make you feel really unhappy to leave this hall and be able to convince you how best you have done that now in these 100 days everything is wrong, as it would be wrong to make a balance sheet for the last four years and that today is the same as it was six months ago, or one year ago, or that today is the same as tomorrow. He won't! This is not the case, for if these solutions were, as I said in the introduction, they would be highly responsible for something else, not just what we are doing in the National Assembly. Therefore, in fact, I have no choice but to withdraw from this hall for so long that I will not really go home with bad news to do wrong, to do wrong, to do harm, but to work on my best conscience. But I think it's simple to believe in the government, on the one hand, that it's in a way that she's approached, that she's trying to find solutions, and on the other hand she's worried that the whole thing will hold -- where we're going to come together, how we're going to do it. I also believe that another week or ten days from now, when the discussions on the balance start, it will also be very clear how the revenue flows are going to go and whether, even if they go this way, they will do some good. As it is said, I will not support this amendment to Article 1, nor will I support one another, nor will I - not to report again - to the other amendment. I will support the amended bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you. I will continue to pour pure wine where my predecessor has already begun. Look, we're going for a pink punk, and I'm sure the crisis in this country will last a long time with such a parliament. If the government had proposed a seven-day deadline for the recovery of these funds, then I am sure that Andrei of the Styrian Seventies would have invested, say, three days and a half. It's easy for the reeds. The old human proverb is that "if it isn't, the army won't take it." And in this country at this point it is a serious austerity measure, not a pink punk and a political score; once a left, once a right. In this law, I think we have taken one step further. We agree that the measure is right and necessary, we have come to the point that the Tax Administration can tell this story substantially earlier than in the sixties; that we have come to twenty-one days from the bottom, which is an acceptable proposal. In time, a proposal for me may certainly be acceptable for fourteen days if the proposal was largely publicly supported. Unfortunately, we cannot miss these hundred and fifty million in public finances in this country, and that is our problem. Why can't we miss them? Because we have to cover some 832 million Euros of commitments that we have made, as well as the past government with new laws and measures, on our shoulders. And this is not an omen or an earlier government or an existing government. What's this money gonna go for? Significant pay reforms, salaries in public authorities and public institutions require EUR 142 million; social transfers - who says we don't need them at the moment - then something is wrong with them - are certainly more justified than we are returning funds to companies that will be able to survive without this VAT return on the market. Social transfers - 213 million, economic public services, rail transport - 28 million, partial full-time subsidisation law - 230 million. And then let someone say that we are not helping the economy and the entrepreneurs, the same entrepreneurs that we are trying, by some other measure on the other hand, to relieve them fairly, but unfortunately we have no place to take them. I'm just going to point out bigger items. The Law on Subsidisation of Student Diet - 32 million euros, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Schools Act - 10 million, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Provision of Funds for Emergency Programmes in Culture - 16 million, the Financial Alignment in Slovenian municipalities - 45 million euros - will you say that Slovenian municipalities do not need this money? The European budget - 52 million euros, 16 million pensions and repayment of public telecommunications liabilities - will you say that 50 million people who have paid this right back then do not have to be reimbursed? Then there is the second part of the story: what about this money, whose limited amount we have at our disposal, the smart and the necessary, for this country, and especially for the economy? Little more than 600 million will go through the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to the following projects: the economy 49 million euros, 17 for business restructuring, 21 for small economy promotion, 10 for tourism and hospitality. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will receive €287 million from the 2009 budget, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology 60. And tell me if any of these projects I counted don't need and deserve these funds! The Ministry of Finance, regulation in the field of economy 160 million, and several million for guarantees. It's simple, as you know, at home in the family budget. When you build a house, you don't buy Mercedes, and you don't go on expensive vacations abroad. Anyone can just spend as much as we have. And why can't we spend more? Because we must strongly respect the Maastrian criteria. Whether we respect them or not - to the Germans, to the French, this is not so important to the larger countries, but unfortunately to the small Slovenian economy, and if we want to establish credit lines, then, of course, we must have good ratings in Europe and in the world, and this will certainly be important for our economists. I agree with your initiative. But I can only conclude with this: the previous government has a good intention to establish this, and this government will certainly do what you want. For me, and for you, for sure, for someone else later, but it will be. But these are our financial options right now. Otherwise, this debate reminds me of what they said when they said, "What does my son know about 500 kilos? He doesn't have a school. It's simple and it carries." But so are we. We are acting as if 150 million euros is something that we can miss in a public financial picture right now. My opinion is that, of course, we can't. I am pleased with these debates, proposals, steps forward that we have taken, I think we are realistic between the eleven and fourteen days, and the cruel fact that this matter for the budget can be realized by the end of this year. But I will be happy if something changes over the course of the year so that it can be sooner or better. However, I also warn you. What the entire world public knows is that, of course, we do not realize that the crisis is unfortunately not a one-year measure, but that it will be a story that we will be dealing with for a year in this mandate. I'm not going to support the amendment right now. But I'm sure when I have the cover and the funds, I'd be happy to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I would like to tell my colleagues in the coalition that the coalition can only be destabilised by itself, the parties to the coalition, and indeed it shows that it is quite unstable, but that it is also our fault, but it is only a little too much. Our colleague Yuri reminded us that we are talking about this marriage today and that you are listening to us. But it's not entirely true because of you. As I said before, we're basically talking about this again because of us, because we insisted and we re tabled the marriage because when you first tried it, you rejected it. Here we hear an explanation of what a great environment we had internationally all the years of Janša's government, the flowers themselves, everything was ideal for the economy, in short, everything was great. Although we know that at the beginning of the mandate, the price of oil was significantly lower than it was at the end. Food irritated, and when you explain that we just sailed with everyone else and were successful, it's not the country. With the countries in the euro area to which we compare ourselves, economic growth has been recorded between 2% and 3%, and between 5% and 6%, probably not by accident and just because things have been happening on their own. And you're telling us we could have done something on our own sooner. It is true and we have also done a lot: we have reduced the rate of profit tax, reduced income burdens, introduced capital gains and similar things. And I will not talk about how much this meant in the state budget, but I will talk about our action, which your Mr. Pahor has just included in his austerity measures. So, when we abolished the wage tax, in 2005 we collected EUR 506 million from this title, in 2006 - 449 million. In 2007 - 391 million, in 2008 - 229 million. This means that the former government, for example, has given up in favour of the economy. With 1. 1. You know that this tax amendment has gradually entered into force so that the law has gradually begun to decline. During your austerity measures, you included an increase in excise duty. This gives you 300 million euros in budget, we've heard. For citizens and citizens, this means, despite the very low price of oil on the world market, very expensive gasoline, more expensive than our neighbours on the left and right. And if the cost of this budget is such a diametric diet or subsidies for kindergartens - then why did you vote in favour? Tell citizens and citizens that in fact you disagreed with these measures, but you supported them because it would probably be very bad if they were rejected; and you know that. And these things have brought and improved the lives of our citizens and citizens, and it is right that we have accepted them, even though you speak differently today. So, let us listen and think again about what is the essence of the law that we are proposing that we allow the economy to do with its money what it thinks is right, because our economy is healthy and they do not expect us to do much, just some help, they will take care of everything else, as they have done so far. They will take advantage of those opportunities that we may or may not give them, with more favourable legislation, we can enable them to do so, and the economy responds quickly only to change, adapts and does not need much from us politicians. And to conclude, there really is only one measure that is too small, as some of you have said. We do not argue that if we adopt this law in the form we have proposed, we will now just save Slovenia - of course not! And because we are aware that this is too little, we have proposed more measures, and you have rejected or rejected them in a number of ways. You have proposed and also passed only a law on subsidisation of working time and several laws that I have already mentioned, which we have proposed in our parliamentary group, which you have then adopted with little cifting. As I said before, it is not ideal and we will not solve everything with one measure. Therefore, this is one of the measures which could bring certain things to our economy, and I propose that we also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't mean to sound anymore, but it's only right that you know what companies are dealing with at a time when they're trying to stay liquid. I talked to the director of one of the companies who said to me: "It would be good for our company to shorten the deadline for VAT return as soon as possible, because our company's existence depends heavily on this money as well. But I don't even hope to ask myself to return the VAT, because when I do, I get an immediate inspection, and no one wants it." Look, these receptions are incorrect. And I don't think this kind of intimidation of entrepreneurs is acceptable, let alone an incentive for the development of the economy! In such and similar cases, the state acts as a bad mother. And this stepmotherly relationship doesn't deserve our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As the controversy of the cities has become, I think, even a little distasteful, I am speaking again. Because those who criticise the opposition all over again overlook that there was something or that we are still of a coalition kind that we hope to think with our own head. First, let me say that I find it completely unacceptable that some have performed here as some kind of teachership, for the public, with didactic aids called prepaid paper sheet, and misleading or misleading data. It is only necessary to respond to such things, especially because it has been said at the same time that those who think otherwise or perhaps even oppose any government proposal are actually at risk of social security, we are spending money on the wrong stakes instead of spending it - let's say conditionally - on current consumption. Well, I'm alone among those who sometimes object to things, and I don't allow myself to show off such eyes and tickled leaves. In particular, not when it comes to silence in the meantime, that if you pay once more in one year, it paid off 13 to keep silent that it is the same in 2010 or 2011 or 2012 or 2013. And, of course, this teaching is misleading to the public, or viewers, who may be following something. We who have learned to count up to 13 are still slightly underestimated. I'm starting to get as nervous as I was at the previous coalition that we keep going back to history. I don't want to drown in history, in the past. I would be in favour of mentioning sometimes, because we must learn something from history - what is crucial to us, but all we need to know in Parliament is that someone else has done something before, and that is, in my opinion, unnecessary and unnecessary. It's a waste of time! This kind of moaning is not close to me, and I reject it. There's been a lot of evidence of demagogism, all of which, all of them, were flying through these eyes. I must say that I reject demagogy and arrogance myself and that more than demagogy and arrogance is taught, I reject it more, it is less justified, every thought should be more based on rational arguments and not just on demagogos political and technological perceptions. Well, I'm refusing that, too. I reject that because those who said it add to me. They didn't say their names, but in terms of speaking, they know what they're talking about. I have to ask, without particularly wanting to address the dissatisfaction in the coalition, whether Mr Kontić also meant me, which, in the case of this amendment, I do not think as much as he does, that I am destructive to demolish this country, to break this budget, to destabilize and so on. These are the kind of eyewitnesses that try to think differently, and I think it's hard. I won't ask for any excuses, but I think it's right to say that I disagree with such a way of thinking. Not particularly because, among other things, the government has suggested this. After all, the government has proposed two amendments on how this should be 21 days and how this should be implemented for the first time in July. And when the government speaks, it's not demagogic, but if I say it by accident, it's demagogic. But let me remind you: the first amendment on my mother's working body was made by me for 30 days. The government then reduced it to 21 days and then later changed it into a distant future, which I don't even know how we're going to expect - or in such coalition connections or not, because those who condemn me for destabilising the country are threatening the budget and so on - say it to the end - that I may be unwelcome in this coalition! They said, some who, when we accepted it, did not sit here about how generous we were, how burdensome we were to each other, especially for the future, it was in the thoughts we are now experiencing. There was a future back then. Today is a moment of urgency. Let me remind you, even though it was already said that we were all pushing buttons cheerfully at the time. Look at the magnetograms and records of our vote, and you will see that there are no those against it. Only now that there are many problems, do we want to place them on other burdens, on other shoulders. I, I remember, can quote from memory, then talk about thanking God that they're not elections every year. Because if we were every year, we wouldn't have social problems and the country won't have any more problems in a few years. If we had an election year every year, we'd have to be good to the electorate. That's how we all did it last year. Those who would like to deny me will bring the vote and show that he voted differently; you will see that this will be a failure. I would, however, be running out of time to not be too long, like to say this, some are trying to defend the government, how it works great and good. I agree with that. The government does a lot of work, mostly doing a lot of good, but we can say that it's also something that's not the best. That there is something else that we should have a comment on, a different proposal. And yet we will not be condemned by those who, according to my judgment, behave somewhat Jacobinically in Parliament. Another piece of information. The law, as someone mentioned earlier, did not fall at the beginning for what he himself thought, but for the sake of being quite a few coalition Members, which we supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Contic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Looks like I'm destined to replicate today. I didn't mean anything to you, Mr. Rezman. I was talking about the proponents and the honesty of purpose and the criticism was not so general. Now, whether you're in here or not, of course, it's your business. I do not want to judge either one of you in particular, and I also find it very difficult to assess the objectives. But I was talking about what I heard in this hall and not staying in the air. We'll support the bill. I think he will receive a large majority in this House, taking into account the fact that the Government has stated: that this law cannot be implemented this year; but that it is possible to shorten the deadlines and that the deadlines are reduced in this law. Thus, the law in general will, at least in my opinion, not necessarily, be supported in Parliament. It is said that there is some general agreement on the need for these measures. Whether we now assess whether it was appropriate to do so now, whether we could have done so in the past, would probably have been attached, and that this could have been done in the past, and that this is the power to do so now. I wanted to say this because I was previously summoned by Mr Chernač to apologize. I didn't associate fat cows with any of the Members. But it was lunchtime, and since I was distracted by the debate from the bench, I said that it might be good if someone else was at lunch that time, as is part of the food set, and thus did not disturb the colleagues who are discussing in Parliament. Such a matter cannot be fully generalized. So much for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to this Article? Yeah, I can still see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. You don't have much time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Last time, now. Well, I didn't just talk about marriage in general. Now we're talking about the amendment. In order to know what we are talking about now and I support this amendment and this amendment foresees something because it is completely different from what the Government has proposed and that, when it discusses the second article, it will not oppose the amendment proposed by the Government. But I will support the law, too, because we have no other solution. You didn't leave us any more. Anything else would be worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that we will support the law, because there is no other option, the matter will go through, but by that simple logic I could say that a sparrow is better in hand than a pigeon on the roof, and I am joining in supporting it. I could even say that when I talk to my fellow entrepreneurs, there were even ideas that VAT should be paid in real-time accounts. In fact, it is not possible to do this, the whole of Europe is in this system, so we will check it out and we will see; perhaps we will be able to talk about it sometime in the future. In view of the fact that something has also been said in this debate today about who lives on the national mangers and who doesn't, I have to say: today, I am also on these mangers for four months. But what about the last job? Thirty years working on three years of apprenticeship, while working and helping - at least I - with my father on the farm; we have already contributed enough to this cash register, and I have no bad feeling if I am in this situation today and we will try to do our work honorably and honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. We will, of course, support the law today, with this delay of application, from 1. 1. 2010 The reasons for this were already many here today, in this hall told. Of course, the financial one is the main one, in the state budget would run out of as much as €100 million, and the Bank of Slovenia also pointed out an overrun of 3% of the deficit, which would all mean that the country and the economy would be more difficult and more expensive to repay abroad. The government has taken a number of measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis. The first set of anti-crisis measures was aimed at providing additional indirect and direct incentives to the economy and, consequently, of course, at preserving jobs. The latter was given a key measure, the Act on subsidisation of working time; many times today it has been said that the Government has not done enough to do too little to act too slowly. Of course, that is not my opinion, I think the Government has been relatively effective. After all, we will assess this government at the end of this mandate mainly after having been successful in dealing with the financial and economic crisis, not after any other marginal things that are occurring in the media today. I'd like to make a very specific case. When Minister Ivan Svetlik visited the Idrija municipality and visited our large companies, the Hidria Corporation and the Collector Group, he was told by the leaders in these two corporations that without this full-time subsidy measure we should have laid off over 100 employees at the end of last year in these two corporations. Imagine what this would mean only for our Idrian-church pool, which has been in place in the past and still applies today, despite the crisis, to a successful economic environment, not only domestically but also internationally. They criticised this measure a lot, such as macroeconomicists, but they calculated, if the government had decided, say, for 3% of the reduction in contributions, one of our companies would have received 250 000 euros in six months, and the same company would have earned 450 000 euros in six months. However, if this measure were not to be taken, for economic and business reasons 20% of the employees in this particular company should be dismissed, and the country should pay EUR 1 million in cash for these unemployed. To everyone, this calculation is clear enough that this was a very rational and blue measure taken by the Government, which has more than been captured, which has both social and development effects. Social services in such a way that these hundreds of people still work in the company with 36 or 32 hours of working time. In addition, it has a development charge, because these people who are now staying in the company will be able, once the crisis turns in the opposite direction, when the growth starts when the orders start to grow, to begin with full or even more working time and are 100% in working condition. The government has acted well in this and many other cases. I think with this delay of the implementation of this law, there will also be a 1st law. 1. 2006 has achieved its purpose or purpose: we will save 160 million euros in the state budget. In the coming year, however, the law will enter into force, even though this measure could have been taken by the government in 2005, it is said that the former, the Janša Government, has already established itself in a substantially different financial and economic situation, and at that time it has not had the will or energy to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article. I open applications for discussion on Article 2 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you. Well, there's only a few seconds left, so let me just say two things in a nutshell. I hope that this VAT law or reduction of VAT will not happen and its implementation will not happen as it has already been done and in a coalition agreement written on how we will help the poorest pensioners. Now we see that this goes on forever, that this may not even happen. The other thing I'd like to say is that Maastricht's spells don't work on me. I also know the Stability and Growth Pact, which contains the special circumstances clause, and I know many other countries that act a little more sovereignly than we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u142	In implementing this law, I think it is more important than whether it will return within 14 days, three weeks, a month or one week, to bring this law into force as soon as possible and to enter into force this year. That is why I think it would be right to support such a rule of law that would allow this year, despite many debates today, which I do not think will greatly help our economy - I share the opinion of those who feel so - to find the means to re-read the liquidity shock that will take place in the budget and to help that healthy part of the economy in this way. Thus, when this law is in force, it seems to me particularly important that it enters into force in the middle of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see a hand, so I'm reopening applications for debate. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u144	In fact, the validity deadline is the essence of this law and what the Government proposes to enforce in the end or at the beginning of the coming year is one such demeaning act, a balinary act, an undignified government. This law can be changed ten more times by the end of this year. Its main purpose, the fundamental purpose, was to bring it into effect immediately. The secondary significance is then whether it is 7, 14, 21 days. It is important that on the one hand there is some direction, some momentum, that this government wants to help the economy, to help it in particular, and that, in parallel, it prepares other measures that will ease the credit crunch and make it possible to improve the liquidity of the economy. By transferring the law for one year, we have done nothing, so there will be no mistake, dear fellows and colleagues, if we all support this law "So what!" What have we done with this? You didn't do anything about it. It's absolutely nothing like there's no marriage! I think there's still time to think about it. It is essential that this amendment on immediate implementation be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. If we adopt this law, as proposed, we will do something; we will make it clear in business plans that their liquidity situation will be different than it would have been. I am convinced that my interlocutor and colleagues know business plans and know that such measures can be very important for the changes and upgrades of these business plans. As for the Maastricht criteria, we have two groups of countries in the European Union. One group of countries that take these criteria seriously and another group of countries that do not take these criteria seriously. The question is which group of countries will Slovenia join. We can be included in those where the Maastricht criteria are taken seriously, such as in Germany or Sweden, or we can be included in those groups where they are not taken seriously, as in Greece or Italy, which are in fact just before the bank break and bankruptcy. It's our decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I see the hand, so I'm reopening the application. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's distasteful to move forward, the entry into force of the law on 1 January next year or 31 December of this year means that there is no law for this year and that it does not work in any way. I think that this is also a very strange act from the National Assembly, because we are also pointing to some unreality higher than those for which this law is to be passed, and for these reasons this thing is ultimately harmful to those to whom this law was intended. It has already been said several times that there are no valid reasons why this law should not be applied immediately. This is a liquidity gap, on the other hand, at a billion and one hundred and thirty-three million euros of the budget deficit that you have charged so far for 2009 - the question of what will be at the end - is still the possibility of finding a reserve for these one hundred and twenty-fifty million euro liquidity deficits if the minimum will were to do so. But obviously you're not. On the other hand, there was an extremely rapid, expansive will to deal with a problem that was not present and which, at the final stage of the irresponsible solution, would result in the payment of compensation in the amount of approximately one more state deficit, as planned by the 2009 rebalancing. Here, where the effects could be concrete, the effects in terms of accelerating economic growth are not. I firmly believe that this gap, liquidity, is so small that only two steps could fill this gap. One step is to make a real assessment of the part of the funds that will be paid under the law that even the unions opposed to it to keep jobs. Another issue is the real assessment of the funds that can be obtained from the European Union funds, the investment funds for which you are even reducing these funds by means of a rebalancing, instead of increasing them at a time when economic growth needs to be encouraged. Only these two measures, which can be implemented within one day, will enable this law to be implemented immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I can see the hand. I'm reopening the application and please report to everyone who wants to discuss. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you, Chairman. Do not take 130 million euros in such a flat-rate way. If I wanted to be rude, I would like to comment on how it is likely that 130 million Euros of fines, which were very easily shared in the previous term, would just take this back, because I don't know who really took it and would be unfair to colleagues on the other hand. However, I would like to say that 130 million euros is the sum that this government and this National Assembly have been working on for several months to provide them through austerity measures. On Thursday we will also contribute to this and for some time we will reduce our salary for this or especially for this reason. So do not say that 130 million is a fraction that we can easily replace; it is not a crumb! And it is a question to which the proposer has not yet answered how he will replace these 130 million in 2009, because we are all the same in order to make a breakout in 2009, how he will replace them in all those projects that will not be implemented. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have been listening carefully now for the second hour to a debate that revolves around one and the same thing. Thus, the proposed amendment makes sense, so obviously you all agree that the implementation of the amendment or the implementation of the law, the amendment - this is a controversial matter. Now, if we take a look at the matter, it's perfectly logical. So, what's this all about? Is this really about saving the economy, helping economic operators or saving the budget? What's the point here now? Yeah, who's powering the budget if we think about it like that? It's powered by the economy. So, in the first place, we need to think in this direction about helping the economy and only in the second phase helping the budget or one representing the theory that the budget needs to be resolved and ignoring the current liquidity and similar problems of the small, large economy. How do you imagine that? For those of you who are now ruling, this is your problem; count with it, look for funds, rationalize the budget, rationalize the expenditure side. But for you to rationalize or do something like this at the expense of the economy to be a victim of the economy, it is such a blind solution that gives no guarantee that you will survive with this budget. That is why I would still be neutral - now that I see this ping-pong as neutral, I would sooner be inclined to help in the first stage of the economy, because not all of us are finally living with it, but the budget, but now at any cost we are trying to save the budget and only the demagogic, the declaration - we will help the economy! But with this action, with this proposal concerning the time frame for the implementation of the law, I think it's a bad trip. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the applications for debate again. Does anyone else want to sign up? I don't see any more applications. That is why I note that we have concluded the debate on the proposed amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the schedule of meetings tonight, following the adjournment of the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BANKING LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. You're not applying? [[No, no, ……]] The government does not want to further explain the bill. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 3rd meeting, on 18 February 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. A general discussion was held at the second meeting of the National Assembly, after which the National Assembly decided that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. The Committee was provided with the following material, the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the proposal by Ambassador William Trofenik for amendments to the Committee on the issue of membership in the Bank's supervisory council and the comments of the Slovenian Consumers' Union on the issue of collection and processing and the system of exchange of information on the creditworthiness of customers who are natural persons. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the provisions of the individual articles and most of them were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. During the discussion, the discussion focused on the comments of the Slovenian Consumer Association on the provisions of Article 72 concerning the collection and processing and exchange of information on customer credit. At the same time, the representative of the Slovenian Consumer Union stressed, inter alia, that the Union does not support the solutions envisaged by the proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 72. Following its assessment, it is concerned about the proposal, as presented by the amendment tabled and the wider range of participants who will be able to use the common database, including non-bank entities, such as car dealers and delayed payment card issuers. The Union of Slovenian Consumers also points out the risk that the inclusion of only some non-bank providers will encourage additional requirements by other non-bank providers to participate in the pool of participants in the common information base. It also proposes a solution that all banks should not only organise and manage the customer credit rating information exchange system but also use it in their operations. In addition, according to the proposal of the Union, the system could also organise and manage a future, currently non-existent market controller for financial services. The proposals of the Slovenian consumer association were opposed by both the representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the representative of the proposed law. The representative of the Association stressed, inter alia, that the opposition to extending the range of participants in the scheme to non-bank providers was not based. They also give rise to the obligations of individuals who affect their creditworthiness, so that such data should be covered and such arrangements apply elsewhere in the world. With regard to the proposal by the Slovenian Consumers Association for the allocation of the role of the information exchange system manager in the future market supervisor of financial instruments, the representative of the lawmaker also pointed out that such a supervisor does not yet exist and that such a legal solution is premature from this point of view. Since the comments of the Slovenian Consumer Association were not taken by any of the qualified applicants and proposed in the amendment form, the Committee did not decide on them. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 8, 12, 13 and 51, which took into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the necessary alignment of the draft law with the proposed amendment to the Insurance Act. The Committee also adopted its amendment to Article 20 on the basis of an amendment by Ambassador William Trophynik, who was not opposed by the Government. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also identified the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment of the coalition groups. In the light of the amendment adopted to Article 72, the Committee did not define itself until the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the same Article. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted by the Committee are included in the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 2nd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude my consideration of the proposal for this law. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to seven. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGAL REVENUE Tax Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-five Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give my word to the billmaker, mag. Andre Visiak for further explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State! The New Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons or Old Law on Profit is, in fact, a continuation, that is an element of one broader package of measures that the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party considers to be a reasonable way to deal with the consequences of financial uncertainty or crisis in Slovenia. We had a long time ago, that is to say about six months ago, two possible approaches; he cuts through a set of direct measures or cuts through a set of indirect measures. Direct measures are such as to horizontally decommission the economy, to increase more liquidity horizontally through systemic solutions, to all companies, whether or not someone has applied for the tender. The horizontal measures are also in order to increase investment or direct measures in order to increase investment, especially investment in that development infrastructure that Slovenia will always need: road, rail, information and so on. However, the government’s responsible have chosen to take indirect measures, and indirect measures are such that the share of funds for certain implementing institutions that will share money or credit financial instruments with such or other constituencies will be increased, either through calls or on the basis of criteria or not. This has a type of weakness, because these measures have an effect on or are not immediate, because some calls need to be made, and these funds need to be provided, of course, then distributed. [[...]] I believe that the proposal for a law that we are considering today is one of the key measures, how it directly relieves the horizontal part of the economy that is created in the Republic of Slovenia and that this segment of the economy also makes it clear that what it does is worth the support of the country and the state, not only in principle, but also through appropriate fiscal instruments. We are therefore once again proposing that tax reliefs for R & D investments should be reduced. To do so by 20% or 20 percentage points and thus to increase tax reliefs from 20% to 40%, or in areas more or less affected by development problems to 60%. With this, we want to allow those who are in the market niches and such many who have development and research projects to implement them and to bear part of the burden of those who do not have such projects and who even forgive people in these times. Article 2 is, in fact, intended to remove restrictions on tax incentives for investing in legal persons' equipment. In fact, it does not seem reasonable that tax reliefs for investments and equipment of an unlimited amount of 30% would apply to independent entrepreneurs, but not to legal persons. The third set is the reduction of the tax rate by two percentage points, gradually. So the burden of all the economy that has somehow created and which creates profits so that this profit can be intended for problems and not only problems, including development plans and projects. And the news that we are also proposing is that interest payments on loans that legal persons rent in the Republic of Slovenia with banks abroad and are secured under special laws with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia do not calculate, withdraws tax at 15%, because it makes sense for us to pay the tax of those who are under special law to have a guarantee on loans in the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this high choice will finally only support these solutions, and that it will also contribute significantly to mitigating the consequences of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much. She wants to speak to the government representative, State Secretary Mag. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor! This law is dealt with in a slightly amended context for the second time. At first reading, the law in the National Assembly was rejected or only adopted in one part, which was amended. It was an investment relief. The government has recently unloaded the economy with some tax reliefs on individual segments of the tax burden, amounting to EUR 210 million. This happened in December and January of this year. At the time of the debate on the previous law, it has already been said that this year, due to the law adopted two years ago, the economy was further burdened by EUR 250 million due to the complete abolition of the tax on the payroll. This means that 460 million additional money has come into the economy or is available in the economy, which would have been the revenue of the state budget in previous legal solutions. The government estimates that such a discharge is satisfactory at this time, particularly in terms of fiscal policy, because otherwise programmes that are otherwise financed from the state budget would be seriously threatened, and therefore proposes that you do not adopt the proposal for a law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, again for your word. As I have already mentioned, the law is one of the important direct, direct measures that relieve the economy. Not only that, the law gives an important message, it gives important information to economic operators. It would be much better if we adopted the law at the end of last year, when we also proposed it in its original form, when a number of economic operators weighed or continued with certain investments that they started in 2007, 2008, when a number of economic operators weighed or invested, in updates, in development, not least in the development of new products, in the development of new jobs. At that time, economic operators were expecting a positive message from the Government, as the state also saw this investment. Times have changed, sharpened, we have received fewer and fewer demand in the external markets, and this has led to a large worm of doubt in many management heads, or to continue with certain development projects or to stop and similar. Since there were no messages, and there were no direct, direct messages at all, I believe that a number of people also gave up, gave up, or even went deeper into some red numbers. Certainly, I hope so with great certainty that many investment projects have been postponed due to this uncertainty. Because everyone began to act self-defensely, self-sustainingly, and at first suffered development, as always, so it was in 1991, nothing new. At that time, it was our assessment that it was time to take care of some quick, strong package, both direct, both tax relief and the reduction of various deadlines so that the economy could move forward. Now this wagon's starting to stop if it hasn't already stopped. And the problem will be how to get this bike back on track. The government therefore had a choice, as we suggested - a package of some direct measures consisting of two key content sets. One is the tax burden and reduction of the corresponding payment deadlines, and the other is a set of clear investments, either in transport infrastructure, information infrastructure, energy infrastructure and the like, which would lead to some major economic activity in the country with the country as an investor. Here we were then faced with some search for the appropriate answers that have lingered in the new year and then by proposing some indirect measures. This is said to be the actions taken by companies to play a role, usually through intermediaries, through some state institutions, either by being an SID bank, or by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship or the Technology Agency or anyone else. Wrong, it's wrong if anyone thinks they're going to revive the credit market by starting a bank here that hasn't done anything before, it's a concrete SID bank. The SID Bank is a state bank that can, say, do some of it, but it is certainly crucial that commercial banks start operating on their basis. And here the country, as the majority owner of both key Slovenian banks, could probably only find a way along the right path, a legal path, to the decision of the administration to do so. Especially since the new President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank was selected and selected during the period when he could give the most answers within his programme on what he would change, the largest New Ljubljana Bank would even begin to service the economy. We've got a fight of two concepts here, respectable. A concept advocated by the ruling coalition with some indirect mechanisms that, by the way, have a whole bunch of weaknesses. For the first time, only a selected circle of people gets them based on a certain role, on more or less objective or more or less unobjective criteria. All of us who have ever applied for an invitation know that we have always been of the opinion that we have been tricked, deceived and so on, or if we have received, we have said, okay, fine, it was right, but perhaps there is some other right in the world. Well, for the first time, it's limited to a circle, and for the second time, it's a delay. Some economic operator who will receive money today or for whom, for example, the Government has invested money for technological modernisation in the budget's rebalancing can hope to know whether he has received money only in the second half of this year or, say, before summer, at best. There will be an invitation to tender, which requires first reporting of projects, which will bring a great deal of "administrative" and, last but not least, the end of the purpose for which the whole thing is. We have gone the other way, and this law is a different approach - an approach to reducing tax burdens on all companies. To relieve them and especially to reward those who invest in R & D investing in equipment and intangible assets. And that they can do so with the already accumulated profits last year because the law is starting to apply for 2008. In fact, I was glad that the Government went against it, although I now see that it adopted it, that it was a government measure to introduce tax reliefs for independent entrepreneurs. I am pleased that you have summarized our proposals and considered them to be yours. You fixed them, coalition - thank you, supported them, which is good, which is good. We can thank all of us, all of us, or it was all on account or for the welfare of the Slovenian economy. That's good. And it would also be wise to correct one difference that I think is unfair and unfair. Tax incentives for investment apply to self-employed entrepreneurs who are as large as limited-liability companies and that is not right. A lot of times it was said, yes, at the st.p.s or the income we went against the small. But here we are talking about the corporate income tax. It's just not true. Many d.o.o. They are also small and are not covered by income laws, but are subject to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. So it's a separation between, as I would say, a status design or a legal basis for the creation of a business or a person engaged in an economic activity, regardless of their size. But it is true that the major part of the S.P.s is small and are exceptionally large, while in d.o.o. the structure is a bit more balanced, even though many d.o.o.s are small. In fact, there is an opportunity to remedy this error of this separation, to make it easier for us to invest in equipment at the d.o.o. or under this law to be limited to up to 30,000 euros, which, by the way, can also be a ridiculous sum for one small or micro-entrepreneurs. In fact, today you are in one high-tech profession, in some metal manufacturing industry or plastic mass industry or anywhere, this is what real computer-led machines cost almost millions of euros. And 30,000 Euros of tax relief, excuse me, is also more or less symbolic for these small sums. Therefore, Your Honor, do not blame us for constantly trying these suggestions because we think they are simply good. And in my opinion, some damage has already been done because they were not received before. Again, damage, especially in this message. When I listened earlier to some of the Government's arguments, which he also stated in his view that the economy had already been burdened by the Tax Law on Wages paid, it was true, it was done in the past, something of this financial effect also in 2009 and 2008, but the economy knew about it. The economy has adapted to that. Any new measure in such times, however, is an additional incentive and must be done. It is right that this mission, which such a message may have, is a positive mission, which such action has in the economy, we are aware and we are taking into account. And one more thing, Your Honor. We would not force everyone into this high choice with these proposals if they were not supported by the economy. The economy recognises these measures as good as real measures. I hope that not all behavior is now united in a few members of the government and those of the coalition's opinion that anyone else knows anything and that it is worth listening to or going against. I cannot help but avoid some feelings when I see that certain segments, even economic sectors, have gone hand in hand because of some lobbying activities than others. That's not fair either. We even have a law that regulates only one specific segment of the economy, and it also has a questionable added value. Respected! I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party here actually wanted to help with constructive proposals. This proposal is also in terms of how we see a way out of this situation, although, I say, it is already quite late and it would be significantly better if it were adopted by the end of last year. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the draft law in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me tell you what I'm going to say at the conclusion. In view of the fact that the position of the DeSUS Group is a position followed by the Government's suggestion that this bill is not suitable for further consideration at this time. This is not what we are saying because we would think that the proposals are bad or wrong, because we are saying this because of the context in which the bill appears. The economy certainly wants to relieve itself, and it also wants a stable, long-term environment, including a tax and other one in which it can plan, and not the turbulence it has received in recent years, perhaps even the most in this tax area. Things change and adapt so quickly, not systematically enough, not long enough, that we find it difficult to monitor all these changes in the National Assembly and then receive greater or smaller support. Sometimes these turbulences and proposals seem to be somewhat politically motivated. It should be recognised that the applicant is functioning in his proposal and, perpetuating, I would say, performing very, let's say, persistently, irresistible, so that he is willing to propose the same laws or proposals over and over again, this insistence even to this extent, that actual errors in the materials are no longer corrected, is regarded as collateral damage. Let us recall that the aim was to relieve the economy, accelerate technological development, new employment, and increase added value even in 2006 when the facilitations were lifted. At the time, therefore, the one who proposed today, in the role of the Government, proposed the abolition or at least the reduction of investment reliefs, which did not prove to be the wisest, best decision and which the economy has criticised all the time. In the role of the opposition, the proposal now appears that these reliefs, which were once abolished despite the abolition of large-tax concessions at that time in 2006, have not been reduced by effective taxation, but dramatically increased by hundreds of millions of euros; so today it appears in office as it returns these reliefs. However, in slightly different circumstances, and for us in the Desus Group, of course, even in situations where it is not known how the vote on the Value Added Tax Act will proceed. This is also another option that we need to think about. And if we were to sum up all the proposed measures that we had the chance to see, we know that everything cannot be settled this year. The proposer is therefore trying to correct some of the weaknesses of the past, which is commendable. In the new context, in the context of the crisis situation, as it now sounds, I would say, a repetition of empty words and also in the context of the government measures already taken, which are just coming in waves. We already know two waves, and there's still a third chance. This context, which we are also talking about, is the context of a prepared budget rebalancing, which we should all have in mind now when we decide whether or not to support this bill. We in the Dessus Group, as well as the proposer, know that the economy supports these proposals. We know that the economy also strongly supports the VAT Act and we know from direct discussions that they are ready to compromise, that they are ready in the economic sphere to adopt any other proposal that may not be best for them, but is still acceptable. So, in circumstances where we know that these proposals can be good, in circumstances that still have several variables that have not yet been decided, and in circumstances where we know that everything is not necessarily adopted at the same time, we in the DeSUS Group are deciding on the position that this law is not yet suitable for further consideration. However, we know that he will return, or the proposals proposed in this law, to return, possibly slightly changed in different circumstances, at another time, and I am almost certain that I can now provide at least the majority support of the DeSUS Group for such a decommissioning of the economy. If I repeat what is important to our position, at this point the DeSUS Group does not intend to support the law in further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In 2006, the adopted tax reform abolished investment incentives in equipment and intangible long-term assets and highlighted incentives for investment in R & D. This is some starting point from which I try to reach the goals, principles and solutions of the proposed law. The proposed law aims to relieve the economy, aims to stimulate the economy and is intended to mitigate the negative effects of the financial crisis due to smaller economic activities. The main solution to this law is to reduce the tax rate from 20% to 18% in two years. It also proposes an increase in the amount, an investment relief of 30% of the invested amount. The law also continues to amend and supplement the existing general aid for R & D investment to 40%. There is nothing wrong with the proposed objectives and objectives in the Slovenian National Party. Even if a person thinks as he has been exposed to previous laws today, we need to know that, after all, the state or other treasury is not without a bottom; we need to think about this too, let us be honest. After reviewing this marriage, I thought about what it was like to be in a congregation where I was mayor. As you know, I think most municipalities account for the revenue side of municipal budgets also from taxes because taxes are the basis. However, the basis for calculating these taxes is the average. And I've seen how very clearly it's calculated with respect to the transfer of power. I do not know on the basis of how many laws and regulations the average for the normal functioning of the municipality should be some over €580. The government's proposal was, I think, about €520. Then we went to the market and came to some middle price. It means that everything we hear is not true, although I respect that now because of the budget, we do not accept such a law because it would be too much of a burden. Yes, why do we have to take up some trade in the congregations between the congregation community and the congregation association against the government? And we need to look for some middle ground, with all the loads we're getting new. And we have to land or we don't even have the right to make decisions in the middle. Of course, it would be contrary to itself if, as the mayor, he said, fine, let us pay as much taxes as possible to have as much money as possible. No, obviously this average needs to be reduced due to the existing situation, and obviously the logical consequence is that we also need to lower taxes for our economy in order to make it easier to invest - once again, I stress - easier to invest and then fully, when it starts, loads it. Not that the rich economy, the rich economy, with large revenues, we have all allowed the amount of money generated to flow into the pockets of individuals, villains, typos, privateists, entrepreneurs, instead of going this amount of money into new investments, into the development of the economy, into new jobs, into education. And it wasn't just about the previous government, and the previous government allowed it. And now we're all wondering, there's no money. And now it's X-Day, when this money needs to be re-established, this cycle is to re-create a new economy, a new added value, and now it's smart to invest it, not in the pockets of these bastards of entrepreneurs who stole the workers, they didn't reward them, and they've been raising their own wages, rewards, managers with such wages that they mix with you. Okay. We get that money back. For the Slovenian National Party, the proposal of this law is acceptable because it helps to help the economy by decommissioning and we will support it. However, if the money, ladies and gentlemen, ran out of money eight years ago or four years ago, take it back from the pockets of those entrepreneurs, who also robbed it when the Slovenian workers invested in income creation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we fully agree with the proposed text of the amendment to the Law on corporate income tax, which seeks to ensure that no distinction can be made between entrepreneurs and businesses or businesses. Most Slovenian companies do not benefit from the amendment adopted in January because the 30 000 euro relief limit is simply too low for a common craftsman, not just for an ambitious small, medium or large company. For Slovenian companies and the economy, despite all the laws adopted, the situation has not changed much for the better. It is therefore necessary to remove the amount of aid for investments. While the government would like to reiterate that all economic operators should be treated equally, we do not understand the delay in these solutions. By perhaps causing additional costs to businesses, the government does not worry. We also agree with the proposals to increase incentives for investing in research and development in order to reduce the corporate income tax rate by 20% in 2008, 19% in 2009 and 18% in 2010. In order to remove the obligation to account for the tax deduction for the interest paid by Slovenian companies to lenders, banks abroad and their ability to repay the loan, the State of Slovenia guarantees. At the time of the financial crisis, legal persons obtaining a legal guarantee are able to rent loans themselves abroad cheaper than it would have been through domestic business banks or the Slovenian Investment Company d.d., so it would be appropriate to eliminate the sense that the State is practically prescribing to itself a tax on interest on loans that it so called itself rents and will repay them if the companies were in difficulty. The aim of all proposed measures is to ensure easier management conditions and thus prevent an increase in unemployment. In these times of crisis, companies must respond not daily, but from hour to hour, to the problems and seek solutions to manage the risks they face. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will, as it is said, support the proposed law as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you. According to the applicant, this is an extremely important, most important law. He's already filed it twice, and he'll do it seven times if he has to. What is its significance and relationship, however, is evidence of the presence of the proposed and its parliamentary groups at this time in the Chamber. It is simply a matter of deceiving the public and generating political points. Mr President, Mr Chernač would like a word. I don't know if it's procedurally possible. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u169	Go ahead. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are realists. What you don't have is not possible to share, but it's allowed to think and dream about what would be good if we had something. We agree with the assessment that, unfortunately, the fiscal situation in this country is not favourable for additional tax burdens. Proposal for a law drawn up by a respected fellow Member of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak is once again taking over solutions that were not adopted in his novel Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons, which was already discussed by the National Assembly at its 5th extraordinary session. 1st and then we also adopted a few solutions for which we all, the position and the opposition, assessed that they were possible. The purpose of the proposed law is, according to the Magi. Andrej Visiak's recovery of the economy during the global financial crisis and at the same time the promotion of the economy for investment and consequently growth and development in these difficult and acceptable conditions. We certainly agree with this in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And the second is, of course, if all these things are possible. The proposal for a law provides for the application of the amount of the aid for investment in research and development, the amendment of the aid, for investment, so as not to establish the maximum absolute amount of the aid and the reduction of the general tax rate. Furthermore, the bill proposes to abolish the tax on the VIR, the so-called tax withdrawal from the interest, from the loans that legal persons rent with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law further provides for an amendment to the general aid already in place to invest in research and development. Investment in research and development also seems necessary and meaningful. But we're back on the line here, too, so we can invest as much as we have. And if we help the economy, the social sector, on the one hand, then we're running out. According to the proposal, a 20% reduction in the amount of R & D investment in order to increase it once again to 40% of that amount is indicated. It is also proposed to increase the specific tax relief for R & D. In the Liberal Democracy we in principle support every effort to relieve the Slovenian economy and at the same time promote the economy for investment and consequently growth, because if we had enough of these resources, then we could come out of this crisis substantially earlier. However, what matters most to me is that this is a key part of the presentation of our position in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, every government, every coalition has the right and duty, and therefore takes responsibility, to choose those measures which are publicly realistic, sustainable and which, given the current state of the Slovenian real and financial sector, are compatible with the set of measures already taken in the field of financial and economic policy. Our answer to this question is: financial measures-first package, second measure and third, budget rebalancing, where we have decided to allocate the resources available, and for this we take responsibility of the Government and all coalition parties. The government and the ruling coalition supported the purpose of the first Visionary Act, which was held at the 5th extraordinary session of 14. 1. 2009 and supported a concrete amendment to the investment facility by proposing amendments to the bill because they assessed that such a measure was publicly acceptable, sustainable and pursued the objectives which were also the objectives of the Government. Thus, the Law amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons established a higher relief from then applicable to investment in equipment and intangible assets, which may also apply to accounts relating to 2008 and to investments from 1 January 2008. However, since the Government estimates that the other new measures proposed are not compatible with the set of measures already taken in the field of financial and economic policy, they are publicly inconsistent, and are not in line with the proposed 2009 budget rebalancing, they are unfortunately not supported at this point in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. However, when times improve and the Slovenian budgets and the economy bear this out, and at the same time the need for financial resources will be reduced both in the municipalities and in the social field, we will be happy to listen to such a measure, as we have also listened to the work of this proposal on 14 January this year. Until then, it is the principle that a wise and good master shares only what he has with him at that time, but not what he sails a little higher above the earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u172	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The proposers of this law say that the purpose of the law is to relieve the economy during the global financial crisis and to promote investment and consequently growth and development in difficult and changed circumstances. With these objectives, we fully agree with the Social Democrats. We doubt, however, that the solutions proposed are the best possible measure to achieve these objectives. The government analysis shows that the impact of the reduction of the tax rate is minimal to all elements of gross domestic product and therefore we attach to the views of the Slovenian Government that the desired effects and the desired targets can be achieved, i.e. the promotion of a new investment phase, better and more effectively with direct incentives for investment in technology equipment and with calls for company development needs. If we use this mechanism, then we give the economy that intends to invest a fresh source of funds in a way that will achieve impact, i.e. for investments and thus to generate new economic growth. Let us recall that by adopting a higher facility for investing in equipment and intangible assets, which can also be applied for 2008, we have already taken an important step towards the ambitions represented by the proposers of this law today. In acute situations, however, it is our shared responsibility to choose the best in a range of different ideas, which will give the best effect and confidently launch a new investment cycle while ensuring the sustainability of public finances. The government has so far presented some of the measures that we believe are a better response to the objectives that we share with the proposers of this law. First of all, co-financing the purchase of technological equipment. In 2009, an increase of €16 million will enable these funds to be received by 222 companies. While the procedures are being simplified, as well as certain conditions allowing for the immediate use of these funds from the moment of the alert. In addition, guarantees for bank credit insurance, a subsidised interest rate intended primarily for small and medium-sized enterprises, which include loans for investments and loans for revolving assets with a limit of EUR 200,000. This invitation, which is also a novelty, will also be opened by entrepreneurs who are beginners. Furthermore, co-financing of development and investment projects where there are company and development and research institutions whose objectives are to develop new services and products of high added value. Yesterday, as an example, we looked with interest at the presentation of news in the field of synthetic biology, which is highly usable and extremely commercial. Increasing funds to promote technological development and research and development projects in enterprises. For technological development we allocate €40 million in the balance sheet in 2008 24. Incentives to research and development for the exit from the crisis in businesses are an additional €58 million. Social Democrats are therefore saying that this is a better way to achieve this common goal. Therefore, encouraging investment and consequently growth and development also in difficult and changed circumstances. Fears of the collapse of the European monetary union have increased in recent weeks. In doing so, the Social Democrats believe that Slovenia today is in a more comparatively favourable position than the non-euro area members of the Union. Our strong interest is in the urgent preservation of the monetary union, and even more so, the European Economic Recovery Plan calls for greater integration of anti-crisis measures, whether monetary or fiscal measures, as a prerequisite for a successful response to the crisis in Europe. The least we can do for the stability of the euro area is respect for the rules agreed upon. We all know that one of the key sustainability rules of public finances is the maximum deficit of 3%. We know that some countries are already faced with exceeding this limit. Slovenia is not in this situation again, but we are at the border - 2.9%, as predicted by the rebalancing. The crossing of this magical border represents a significant deterioration of the situation of Slovenia, and thus also of the bank, economy and population on the international credit market. This would further close our doors to sources and pay more for these resources. We therefore expect the Social Democrats to do so, and we call again, that respect for the Maastricht criteria will all be understood together as one of the key priorities of the anti-crisis policy of Slovenia as a whole. Let me get this straight. We believe that the common interest of Slovenian policy must be that, at the time of the crisis, all attention should be paid to the stability of the financial and macroeconomic environment, the preservation of jobs, while also solidarity with those affected by economic growth, either through the infrastructure development of the country or through the direct promotion of investment in the economy and the simultaneous planning and implementation of structural reforms to ensure long-term sustainable growth. All of this is also recognised by the Social Democrats in the state budget's balance sheet, which on the one hand increases investment with index 171, thus pointing to the developmental orientation of this government and, on the other hand, provides increased resources to ensure an adequate level of social security. Especially for people who are or will be unemployed at this time. This demonstrates its fundamental social nature and the ability to ensure solidarity in the community. We will vote against the proposed law because of all the above.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. One more apology for the mistake. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment and supplementation of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which deals with the reduction of the tax rate on income, is an ineffective proposal because many businesses today, unfortunately, will not generate profits, or create so much lower profits that the proposed change will not have the effect they would like to have. Therefore, this is not the most optimal measure to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis. The reduction in the tax rate would mean a great deal to someone who has made a profit by selling shares and would be further assisted by this measure by the State to generate an even greater profit by reducing tax rates. In the current situation of the economic crisis, as already stated in the proposal or in the opinions of the groups of Members, when it comes to the situation on the market that is not the most favourable, this is a reduction in the volume of production, it is a reduction of the activity, it is a smaller order than expected, which is why companies or large companies are almost and unfortunately not deciding on new investments. Despite the fact that the amendment would increase liquidity for businesses. An analysis of the impact of reducing the corporate tax rate by means of a general equilibrium model shows minimal effects on all elements of GDP. In today's situation, i.e. uncertain situations, it would be more appropriate and more appropriate for the State to directly encourage businesses, an economy with technology investment subsidies and calls for company development projects. The adoption of such a law would reduce the revenue of the state budget by €350 million, thus exceeding the 3% limit of the Maastricht criteria or reaching, as was even said in the 4% deficit. As a result, Slovenia’s ratings would also deteriorate. Those of us who may have worked in this area before in our lives know what that means. It means that the position of the country, the position of banks, economies and the population in borrowing loans is deteriorating, as all of them would have had, or would have had, more difficult and under worse conditions to rent loans. Such an enforcement of the amendments to the Law on corporate income tax would, in this way, primarily hamper economic growth at a given time, and we particularly want to speed it up at this point. The European Commission's opinion on such proposed changes is also negative, so this is not recommended at a given time. However, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the adoption and introduction of an investment facility for other companies, when possible or when the situation permits, and in this way we will normally promote economic growth. Today, as has been said several times before, subsidies for investment in technological equipment are more appropriate than tax incentives to encourage investment, as this actually encourages investment. This also applies to tax reliefs for R & D, where a more appropriate measure is in the budget balance, which in addition to the current 50 million will increase the call for development projects by an additional 50 million euros, which means, if we figure that this is an incentive of EUR 100 million. My opinion is the same as the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to support the proposal of the proposer at any given time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Head of the LDS Group has misused the presentation of the position of the Group of Members on something which is not intended when he counted Members in this Chamber. This is not meant to be presented, and I expected you to intervene. At the same time, he forgot to list his Members, nor would he have to do anything difficult until his colleague Anderlič joined him; who is waving at me now, I see you, colleague Anderlič, without waving at me; he was sitting in this Chamber as a representative of the LDS himself, and he should not worry about how many other Members of the other parliamentary groups are sitting in this Chamber. We know that they can sit in their offices and listen and monitor the debate. So I'd expect this to come to mind in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u177	Mr. Blackach, I can only say. One sentence was said. If the contents were longer, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u178	Mr. President, I'd rather be procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u179	Can you give me your word? [[...]] Will you take your word for it? I was going to say earlier, you've been falling into the word of a speaker who spoke and also violated the Rules of Procedure. Let everyone do their job. I'll do my best to be corrected for everyone. You too. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u180	If this prediction of yours is true, then I expect you to give me this time that you have needlessly taken away from me. That's when it happened, but you were talking to someone, so you couldn't keep track of things. But I believe your words. With regard to the law that we are considering again, one would only expect a clear direction from the Government after such a time and one clear analysis that would give rise to why this positive measure, which is proposed, is rejected. However, this is not the case here nor with the law that we have dealt with earlier on about the speedy return of overpaid VAT. The arguments that appear are always the same. That we will go over 3% to threaten the Maastricht criteria, that we will increase the already record deficit that will exceed a billion euros in 2009 and that the effects of the proposed measures will not be affected. The fact that none of these claims are substantiated. This position, which we have received in this law, even states that the Government has initially explained that it has prepared a comprehensive set of measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis and that proposals for new measures have already been adopted in the National Assembly. I do not recall that anything special within the mandate of this Government would be proposed and adopted in this National Assembly. What has been proposed has been proposed by the previous government. However, what has been proposed from now on since this government was proposed by members of the opposition and it would be appropriate to actually get one concrete analysis from which any of these measures proposed actually mean something. Everything can be calculated. It is known what it means to have a liquidity burden of EUR 120 to 150 million, and what happens if it is burdened at that point when less tax is to be paid. And it was not the opposition's intention to take over the government's work, so she took over or took responsibility in the elections last year. The opposition's aim was to encourage this activity and help resolve what it could do at a time when there are no measures when there is nothing. For, as I have said before, we are going into a period that will be increasingly critical, and I fear that if we go through Rubikon, it will not be possible to save any of the companies that could save him at this point. This assessment of the situation referred to in this law is, in my opinion, completely wrong, even with itself in conflict. On the one hand, it is argued that there will be no effect because there will be no profits, on the other hand it is said that the greatest effect of this law will be speculators with securities when we know that securities have collapsed and that this is one of the problems of this crisis. The New KBM share, for which some of your experts at the time of the sale, claimed that the sale was overpriced when sold for EUR 27, fell well below EUR 10. I don't know what these experts of yours who have become ministers at this time are thinking. It might be interesting to hear if we were to sit in this room, because the law concerns them, but they are not. That's how I think the grades are in conflict with each other. What I think is essential on the one hand is that the legislation we are proposing allows for equal treatment of operators on the market. It is said that the conditions of operation are the same regardless of the status form in which one of these entities operates. It doesn't matter if someone's s.p. whether someone is a small family d.o.o. What we have now is legalized that this is not the case. For example, if an entrepreneur registered as a separate entrepreneur invests in a new technology, I do not know about the production of chopjacks or pellets amounting to EUR million, under the current legislation there is a possibility of 30% relief, it is worth EUR 300,000. This law, which we want to change, which would equalize this matter, gives it 30,000 euros in relief, is said to be 10 times less. Interestingly, the Government at the second point realized that this was not good and that after we had changed by law from the income of legal persons and at the suggestion of one of your Members extended this relief to buses and trucks, this same proposal is now applying for S.p. It is said that there the Government justifies that entities must not be in an unequal position, that they must be treated in the same way; here, when it comes to a completely identical position, only in the opposite direction, this is not the case. I think that this is one of the reasons that is not so insignificant, although the purpose of the law was to help those who can maintain their production in a series of different measures that this country or the National Assembly can take. In the future, if this apathy, such as it is, starts to happen a little more blacker scenarios than we have seen in recent times, they will not only be forgiving 200 to 300 people a day, they will not just shut down a single work-intensive factory like the textiles, Betty Metlika and so on. We will also begin to collapse into that part, which means the possibility of a technological breakthrough in Slovenia, because this segment of the tendering part of the aid, the fifty million euros you are talking about, which is supposed to be for development projects, will simply not be enough. And I also see nothing wrong with these measures being complemented if they follow each other. There is nothing wrong with this, and I think that the estimates of the state budget deficit this law would bring are completely flawed and exaggerated. I think it is right that this law is left in the legislative procedure to try to complete it, but to complete it in one smart way, in such a way that the economy will have the most of it, because it also supports it all the time, but not in the same way as we have witnessed it in the VAT Act, where the Government, by delaying its entry into force next year, has destroyed the basic purpose of the law and is a kind of fraud of this National Assembly, as well as of those to whom the law is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. One more nice hello to everyone. I think that this is one of the last points or, yes, one of the last points in a series of necessary measures, which, in our view, would contribute significantly to mitigating the financial and economic crisis. Our common goal is, I hope, as has been said several times today, to relieve the economy in times of crisis and to encourage development in these difficult situations as well. While in explanation, the government rejects the proposed changes on the ground that it has prepared a comprehensive set of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis, with particular emphasis on measures to slow down economic growth and increase the liquidity economy. Unfortunately, the economy does not detect or notice these measures and the number of unemployed is increasing from day to day by mentioning only one of the indicators of this crisis, which is slowly becoming social. I believe that the reduction in the tax rate from 20% to 18%, the addition of investment incentives and some others, is an important signal to the economy to invest in development despite changing and difficult circumstances. I therefore support this proposal, and I believe it is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u184	Nice greetings again, coworkers and coworkers! Of course, the economy wants relief now. There's something else that's interesting. The economy wanted to relieve itself yesterday, and the economy will want to relieve itself tomorrow and tomorrow and so on. It is normal that it is our primary duty to value the country in order to relieve the economy. But you know, those who had a four-year responsibility to run this country, those who didn't, probably from literature or otherwise, that the country can't be cheap enough, but that certain structural changes need to be made. And that's exactly what the current coalition and the current government are up to. We have experienced the first package of measures, so-called fire-fighting measures, by the end of 2008, for which a large majority agree to be positive. We are now experiencing a second package of measures, so-called budgetary measures, where we provide more rational spending by the country and, on the other hand, greater stimulation through calls and subsidies in the economy. This is followed by a third set of measures, the so-called structural measures, where it will have to be thoroughly cut where - this has to be recognised - the previous government has tried and failed. I hope so, and we all hope it will be for this government. The proposal to reduce taxes on businesses, according to local terms, is attractive but demagogic. It's demagogic because it won't save anything. At a time when there is no profit because companies channel all that they receive through income into liabilities and in those few investments they manage to make, there is no profit. If you know companies, you know that companies don't make profits at the time. So, lowering the tax on something that's not going to help a lot, except for some. Except those who bloodyly need some more money to pay off the high obligations they have accumulated in previous years. In other words, this law helps the tycoons. This law helps those against whom the vast majority of policies have been to fight over the past four years; it helps Istrabenz and so on - all those who need to make a little more profits or some more money in their own treasury to be able to repay those huge loans they have leased over the past four years. So if we want to be consistent, then we can't go on with this law because we can't achieve anything but help the tycoons, but at the same time we're not encouraging any new investments, no new economic achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for a law on the taxation and income of legal persons is basically well thought out, as it is based on a burdensome economy at a time when the whole world is looking for the best and fastest solutions from the economic and financial crisis. Promoting a developing economy and investment is only one of the effective measures that brings brighter times for the whole country. There is only talk of austerity measures, which is only too little, since the austerity measure must only be one of the segments of accelerated development. In our country, 70% of the economy is export-related, which means that we are also dependent on the economic and financial situation of the countries of the European Union to which we export, so that it is not only up to us, but rather we need to put matters on a broader footing. It is urgent and necessary to find spare potentials within the country, in construction, in the construction of non-profit dwellings, roads and tunnels, thus intensifying part of the economy within the country, thus opening up new opportunities for us to invest in European funds for infrastructure development and to complete the projects already started. Higher facilitations, elimination of interest tax, credits must be an essential component of the incentives to accelerate and relieve the economy. The State is looking at measures in the field of taxation of the income of legal persons with reservations, as it considers that the burdens would exceed the limits of public financial sustainability, which is in some ways understandable. I hope that a well-intentioned law will not end up in a garbage can just because there is too much emphasis on filling the state treasury and forgets those who cash it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Istok Podkrižnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think we are all experiencing a decline in global demand, and in particular I think that this bill is good for the Slovenian economy itself. It's important, so we're helping businesses right now, and I think it's probably the right thing to do for a long time. Because companies, if they do not invest in new technologies today and thus somehow improve offers in their businesses, will be worse for them tomorrow. So these companies are going to have big problems. Because today many Slovenian economies are entangled in Europe and beyond Europe, and if, once these companies, I say, sit on these global trains, then they have to mate with all these other companies, because if they don't invest today, I say, accelerated, like the last four years, it will be bad for our economy. However, I was in a bit of a bad mood when I heard some of them talking today, in this direction that Slovenia does not need entrepreneurs and economists. I have to say that I was an entrepreneur myself, and I own a medium-sized company, and I wish there were as many people in Slovenia as possible. Because if we don't raise this culture here, we really do put entrepreneurship in the place that belongs to it, we say that we keep this tradition, then it's really bad, it's bad. I assess myself and the Group of Members that this proposal is good, and I expect the rest of you to support it, because Slovenia will not go well without good economic operators, entrepreneurs, but will not go well ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u190	I don't know if it's good or bad that I have a little time, but maybe I'll save some time for later. I could say that it is similar to one of the previous laws to exploit a place in which the Government has not yet lost sight of all the instruments with which it could consistently lead public finances policy. However, I am in any case in favour of decommissioning the economy, but of course I am not in favour of disintegrating public finances. And here is the problem of this consistency, consistency, different policies and so on. That there will be no misunderstanding; I am far from those positions advocated by some: "Give the money to the state and the state will distribute it, it will be able to give incentives to those who deserve it and who will most effectively deposit it." No! No! I firmly believe that it is significantly better for those who have created money, who create it, to let it be loaded even better for new production and so on. We're different here. So far - and all the countries in the world that have redistributed money for some incentives and so on have not been successful. Successful were the entities that created the money and also properly alocate it, uploaded it, and so on. Thus, it will obviously be necessary here in the future to discuss how to establish a system that will give those who are better the opportunity to invest this money in development, research, technology and so on; on the other hand, that everyone will pay what is due to the State for its ability to perform other functions that it must and does - to invest in infrastructure, education, health and so on. This marriage is well-intentioned, it is not to be seen, but the apparent consistency of all politicians does not capture together with [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Government measures already taken and planned in this area in the near future. [[...]] But I hope we can talk about this again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposer of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is trying to correct what he has taken in the past. At this meeting we are also considering the VAT law and a faster way of returning funds to the economy. There is also a 2009 budget balance ahead of us. All the measures taken by these two laws are very necessary for our economy, but we must all be aware that we are in the economic crisis, better said in the recession. Some in the National Assembly have recently said that there is no recession. It is very nice to talk about tax relief and a faster VAT return, but for this it has been an ideal time in the past mandate period. Why didn't this happen in perfect time?Oh, my God! I don't blame the opposition for suggesting that. You are in a position to be liked by the Slovenian public. The coalition has been given a mandate to run this country and must also take care of the revenue side of the budget. I will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is a marriage that is also of great symbolic significance. This law breaks opinions on the philosophy of the approach to the crisis that lies ahead. At the time of the overheating of the economy, it was clear that in the previous mandate the government had decided to reduce investment reliefs, and investment even had to be mitigated. Now, in the time ahead of us, which will be marked after the closure of businesses, after the increase in the number of unemployed, after the loss of jobs, we are in a completely different situation. We can approach this in two ways: first by mitigating the social pressures of those who lose their jobs and secondly by providing jobs or protecting those who are still healthy. And here in this government, there are differences in different approaches in this mandate. We passed a law on partial full-time subsidisation. Both employers and trade unions opposed this law. And the unions, as we read in their statements, their union newspapers, find that this law has missed its purpose. In some ways, it rewards employers who have reduced their hours and thus reduced their wages to 10%. In addition, none of these subsidies, which go to these companies, ensures that, after the end of receiving the subsidies, hundreds of workers will not be fired. There is no guarantee of job retention, but it is a huge cost, about EUR 230 million, as the Government has estimated. Nothing, or very little, is concerned with how to encourage healthy businesses to maintain their production and jobs. What, though, are those healthy companies worth saving? These are the ones that have invested in research and development in recent years. Clearly, they plan to expand production, expand jobs and have some healthy core within them. And not those companies that have only been in state nursery for five, ten years, or vegetating on the basis of state aid. These companies of 75,000 taxpayers are around 43%, and these companies should be supported, and this law is intended to do so by significantly facilitating investment in research and development, which is a prerequisite for the creation of new, better jobs. I've already said this before, and I'm going to repeat the comparison to shutting down the house in the middle of the village, which I observed as a small child. The firefighters came in, they had hand pumps, and at my great surprise, they didn't put out the fire, they didn't put out the burning house, because the water in the well was limited. They've been watering the rest of the houses that didn't burn. I think that some of this, this logic, this simple logical approach should also be taken into account by this government. The resources of the state budget are limited and it makes no sense to put 230 million into those companies that will fail sooner or later, but to support those, in accordance with this law that hope and still have a chance to survive with new technology, with new knowledge, because only in this way will such companies survive. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government said that the best social policy was development policy. In previous announcements by Mr Pahor, it has also been clear that the Government will devote almost €85 million this year for active employment policy programmes and that it is most helpful to provide all assistance to those companies that are healthy. That was the talk that we listened to, the talk that we liked, because it aimed at that thesis that the crisis could also be an opportunity. Who's the chance? For one who has some more power and needs help. Gentlemen, I think that if you reject this law, first of all the principles which Mr. Pahor and the Government have preached before and who we have listened to with joy, with the hope that this principle will also abstain, and also between what is done and where the house that will burn will be extinguished.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you again very much for your word. Today's session or debate is focused on topics that are extremely important for our economy. That is why I am already at the previous point, and I am now, again, disappointed, and I do not believe that it is just me, probably a number of economists, that there are no ministers present on this side. Otherwise, she is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who is certainly competent, but there is political responsibility and weight in particular on ministers, both Mr Lahovnik and Mr Križanič and Mr Gaspari. It is therefore right to point out that some economists have already asked me where Mr Lahovnik is, and there is nowhere to track him. It's just a matter of coalition, Government, but I don't think he's where he's supposed to be. At the previous point, we have proposed a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party which is in favour of our economy. In the debates, particularly by the coalition, it was clear that there was a lack of support for what I regret, not just me, I believe that this will be remembered mainly by economists who know what they could benefit from, and when the opportunity comes, they will respond accordingly. Today, or now, it is a point that is also aimed primarily at supporting our economy. The recession and all these unfavourable economic conditions, which are to a large extent more present in the countries of the European Union and also in America, are also moving to Slovenia. Many of our entrepreneurs are losing markets, not because of poor business decisions in Slovenia, but mainly because they are linked to production abroad, in European countries, even in America. And every entrepreneur, let it be small, let it be medium-sized - big companies do it in a different way, there is no such flexibility - but especially small entrepreneurs from day to day think about what to do to be able to respond to themselves, especially employees who have them to not keep, but to shift their production to products that will be able to sell across Europe and also beyond Europe's borders. In many interviews with entrepreneurs, it is often their expectations to enable them to have the possibility of restructuring in a relatively simple way or with the support of the State. It means we're giving them tax breaks. And this law, which we have put back in the Slovenian Democratic Party with good faith to help our economy in the process, is expected to be supported by both the Government and the coalition - unfortunately, there will not be enough obedience. Companies dealing with production, which has essentially frozen demand in many markets, are looking for solutions, as I mentioned, for new products, new products. Many entrepreneurs would be happy to take credit, and for much greater support or assistance it would also be a tax relief to buy new machines, new programmes that will also have a sales perspective, and they are unfortunately not doing so in Slovenia, particularly because of the lack of understanding of the government and the ruling coalition. I think every single one of us who's here is wondering whether that's right or wrong. Today I have already mentioned: only a good economy can save us from this situation. In this proposal, we also propose further incentives for those companies in regionally less-performing regions or areas. Centralisation in Slovenia, we can see this here, as well as the profession has done great damage in Slovenia. Centralization - that's not good. Decentralisation, which has also been our priority in the previous mandate, as well as this proposal for a law, could provide tax relief to less promising regions with greater entrepreneurial initiative and would be of great benefit. That is why I am really pleased with the discussions of some of the coalition Members - my colleague Anderlič expressed his support for such an idea in his debate earlier, with the expectation that this proposal would be complemented in some way, he supported that it would have even more impact. However, as I mentioned, entrepreneurs, our economists need, expect and ask us. Let us give them support now that the time is very difficult for them today, but in a month, two or three these conditions will be even worse. Rather, we will give them this opportunity to restructure themselves to revive their production with products that will be able to sell on markets outside the borders of Slovenia, rather, it will be easier for us and for all of us to expect to solve this crisis as well. Just saying how it affects our budget isn't enough. I hope that we are all aware, including Madam Secretary of State, that there are no ministers here, there will be no budget without our economy. If our economy dies, there will be no money in the budget. I think we get that. Please, let us give our companies, our entrepreneurs, who are certainly innovative, have proven to be already in Yugoslavia, especially in the time of independent Slovenia, that they are innovative to adapt to global trends, not only to trends in Slovenia, that they will also be able to develop further. Let's support this law. Once again, if you cannot support him from the coalition if you have been forgotten: abstain and we will support him from the opposition, this will benefit our economy. Thank you very much for your smile.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u198	Nice greetings, Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, as we have heard in the last days. When we discuss taxes and tax policy, we are discussing one of the most important things that is in Parliament's domain, in the government's domain, and in this way we are somehow shaping our future, and when I have been observing this pingpong for several months now in the National Assembly, I can say that I am very disappointed, and I am sorry that there is no development partnership at such important points, the leaders of the parliamentary groups have discussed how we will live in the future. In this debate today, it is only very important who speaks of what kinds come from the current coalition, from the old government, from the new government, that the whole debate leads in this direction, not in the direction of the proposed measures and the basic purposes of the proposed laws. I am also aware that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is not a balloon in which we can blow and will endure indefinitely, but that these things need to be discussed very seriously and responsibly and found the best way to develop our economy. I am afraid that the measures that have been taken so far, as has been said, are too large and that they are largely aimed at addressing severe social pressures, less at the development side. Unlike those who have disputed with a measure that allows for reduced working time, I myself consider that this measure is positive. I am pleased that we have accepted it and that, as we heard yesterday from the Minister responsible for the work, the family, the social affairs approved for the 37,000 jobs of these short-term subsidies. I think that this is the right measure and that it will preserve a number of jobs, which is most important at the moment. I am already in this place, and I repeat this question again, and perhaps later, when we all listen to how much this measure will cost the country, because from those words that we heard yesterday that 37 thousand subsidies have been granted so far, we have at our disposal 230 million, according to my modest estimate of this somewhere between 15 and 20 million in this year. And once again, I say that for the measure I support and I think it is right, we will not spend as much money as we have anticipated or discussed when we adopted these conclusions. Therefore, I think that some of the resources that will remain there could also be given for these proactive measures to enable the economy to breathe more easily. If I move to the part of the economy that the measures proposed in the law under consideration are intended for it. We are talking about the reduction of profit tax, as well as subsidies, incentives for investment. These are the companies that will revive our economy, our country, our budget and enable us to do better. I myself agree that structural measures must also be taken to reduce consumption in the country. And if, among the measures we are now talking about, I also include VAT from the previous point of liquidity, 120 million, which is 0.3% of gross social income, here the proposed reduction in income tax, which is about 250 million, and the assessment of investment reliefs from 100 to 120 million, we are talking about a total of 400 to 500 million euros or a good percentage of gross social income. I think that we are united that for our economy, with more than 40% of gross social income, we are spending 42% of our money in the public sphere, too much burden and that there is some structural measures that we can now assess that we leave some of these resources in the economy and that we have better results in the coming years and we also collect more taxes. I think that, as has already been said, - unfortunately, I do not yet have the balance to speak about it - to find any smaller expenditure this year, even for investments that we do not need as much as we already mentioned weapons or similar, and more resources to focus more decisively on the economy and so that the lungs of these countries can breathe better so that this organism can live well in the future. I would therefore like to focus on content and less on overheated debates and debates in this debate, where only a partner is created, where the largest coalition party and the biggest opposition party find room for political accounting, and that we are talking about a serious problem, tax policy, and in this way also allow us to live in the future. I think we should all have the courage to adopt these laws together. I have already mentioned this before, but I do not support what is happening in America and how big this deficit is, but in the United States budget they will allow themselves 12.5% of the gross social income of the deficit in desire, not because they want to get the country "on the bucket" but because they want to encourage it to live again and come back on a more successful path. I think we should have a little more courage and listen and give the opportunity to those companies that are doing well and will save us in the future more opportunities. Therefore, I appeal to the rest of you to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I am certainly one of those who shares a positive opinion on all the proposals coming to our tables. Proposals for assistance and recovery of the economy, assistance and at least measures to mitigate this crisis. I am sure, and I respect all these proposals, and I also respect the first and second packages adopted by the Government to relieve the crisis. Of course, we are also waiting for the third measure presented by the budget rebalancing this year. I think that all these measures have a great deal of effect from all those who would have had you and this proposed bill to reduce the tax rate. It would be good to somehow monitor and monitor all these measures and their effects in order to measure the evaluation effects and, on the basis of this, to determine whether we have decided on the right measures or not. One mass, one mass of all these measures could soon lead to a very opaque situation and take action for action, a measure on a measure that somehow together would have the same basis and the same results. If we have a patient and are treated with one medicine, then we usually wait to see the effect of these medicines, or if they work, and then we decide on additional medicines, for new medicines and treat them. That would be the case. If we have taken the first and second measures, if there is still a 2009 budget balance ahead of us, then it would be very reasonable to wait for all these effects. To see if we have accepted the right ones, if they are those who are achieving and producing good results for decommissioning the economy, otherwise they would have decided for others. I am convinced that this measure proposed to amend legislation to reduce the tax rate is the right measure. However, I certainly think it would be necessary to wait to see the effects of all these measures already taken and then to decide on this, perhaps one that is complementary or modified, for further consideration and for adoption. I am certainly in favour of the opinion of the DeSUS Group, which is united in this regard and is not being defined to endorse these measures at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! Today is the day when we have on the agenda a meeting of the National Assembly of four important laws from the financial and economic package: the Insurance Act, the Banking Act, we have considered the amendment of the VAT law and now the law from the income of legal persons. Despite the fact that we are considering four such important laws, none of the ministers of this government have been present today. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also announced at the inauguration and in some other performances that he would devote much time to the work of the National Assembly. However, it is obvious that only the Members' questions will be those and some other points related to the photo dates when he will be pleased to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. These are topics concerning the Slovenian economy, which also concern Slovenian policy, which are in fact key topics, which constitute an important part of the response to these difficult situations of the economic crisis. Even when we, I recall, proposed certain measures in the previous mandate, we had a very high level of activity in the assembly system, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, now the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We've had a lot of meetings, a lot of meetings, but I kind of feel today that the will of these economic associations to help them is actually gone. Even those who, first-hand, can defend the interests of the economy, the interests of the small economy, remain silent in the National Assembly. Clearly, the situation is so severe that they do not hope to speak, nor do they hope to comment on the proposed measures, both in this law and in the VAT law. It's a matter of, I must say, very strange. Obviously, the main problem in the area of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise is the modification of acts, so that the President of this Chamber may also continue to carry out the work and not the actions and activities necessary to change the economic structure and economic image. I also think that the approach offered by the Slovenian Democratic Party in solving the economic crisis is genuine. We are with the measures we are proposing - in fact, we are allowing these measures to ensure that the economy responds to its immediate needs only in its best interests. The reduction of payment deadlines or the reduction of taxation means exactly that. The difference between the measures we are proposing and the measures advocated by the Government is, in fact, in the way. We propose that all the companies that achieve these measures, both by reducing the VAT deadlines and by facilitating research and development and reducing taxes, act and choose their own variant and way and the area in which they will be oriented. The government offers invitations to tender, the Government offers measures with a long delay, the Government offers measures to be selected, that is to say intended only for a certain part of the economy intended only for certain types of enterprises, who is eligible for these measures will be decided by the officials and will decide by the call for tenders. I think that this is certainly not the best way, because all these effects will come in the second half of the year, at the end of the year, and we are allowing these measures to react immediately to the economy and that it also has foreseeable circumstances. This is said to know what the tax will be in the coming year, to know what reliefs will be now and then and so on. In short, we offer the economy predictability. I also doubt that the economists with whom we meet in all environments understand the situation as differently as we hear it in this debate. I think that the interests of economists in Ribnica are no different than in the White Landscape than in Ljubljana, than in Maribor and elsewhere. Everyone wants access to finance as quickly as possible, everyone wants as little burden as possible, everyone wants the opportunity to run their program, their project, their company, and to start creating the conditions for survival or for their further development. Nowhere in Slovenia are economists ready to wait and I am very surprised by the discussions of some, I will say sociologists, in the National Assembly, who may have never worked in the economy, what the economy needs and what the right measures are for the economy. All those of us who have survived an important part of our professional career in the economy know. Even as s.p., let's say, even as afternoon craftsmen and otherwise, we know what those real measures are. And the country has the financial potential that the measures and proposals that are here can be followed and can also help the economy in this way. I think that if a country can create a package of several hundred million euros for calls to which the final consumers will be some companies, then even a few hundred million euros can be provided by the state, or the same, for those economic operators who are significantly smaller, which will be overlooked by the calls, perhaps because they are in some other areas at risk, and thus allow them to decide their own destiny; to organise themselves, just evaluate their opportunity, their business opportunity to invest, to complete the programme and so on. In short, I think that in this case the coalition's decisions go to these bills, which we have proposed not to support them or to support them through radical interventions into their content and to change their meaning, are not in place. They are not developmental, they are not economic and they are not such as to give this economy some quality and some additional perspective. On conclusion, I can only say that Slovenia can lead better, that Slovenia can lead much better at this point. After all, this country and the citizens of this country deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u203	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When this law was discussed at one of the previous meetings, I was talking about a story that is true, and I intend to repeat it again this time. Back then, I was talking about Nafta Lendava, who had been through a lot in the past. Also because of wrong political decisions in the past. Over the past few years, the company has become more interesting to the banks. That's when the decision for two investments fell. One of these is 20 million, I speak in euros, of course, the other 10 million. This other one is practically starting to work in the next month. The first was, unfortunately, due to banking problems or changes, as I would call it, to the terms of lending, unfortunately, stopped. In the meantime, orders in this company decreased by more than 30%. It is necessary to know that the company did not have any reserves and, in fact, all these development projects were built from credits and, of course, these credits will now have to be repaid in these difficult times. That's one story. There must be more stories like this in Slovenia. We're hearing about the problems of construction companies, the ones that build housing blocks. There was also something about the Roman Spas and so on and so forth. In short, this is what I fear, and it is my concern that the companies that were optimistic at the time of the merger, when the bankers offered credits and knocked the directors on their sleeves, that they would decide in those optimistic times to invest in such decisions because they had a vision because they wanted to change things for the better, so that in those times these companies could also fail because they simply would not be able to repay these loans. I'm afraid this law will not receive support today. However, I would like to and I would like to appeal that this law is still alive today, so that in the coming days we can think about what is going on with the funds intended to subsidise shorter working hours, I am talking about 230 million, because it is definitely too much. And colleague Bogovic has already asked twenty-six times what happened to the 230 million in fact, what the minister said yesterday that he had asked for 37,000 -- in short, for a few 10 million euros. And let me calculate it once. That's for 500,000 employees. So many won't go on short notice - or either. Give us this answer once, how did you get this 230 million, 26 times Mr Bogovic asked you? Either our math is wrong or something else is wrong. These funds could be earmarked for one of these measures that we are talking about today. In short, to see what it's like to think about maybe restricting these reliefs to the provinces, some of the landscapes will be in serious trouble, I'm talking about Pomura, probably more of them, I'm not going to mention Mure here today. And in the end, I would like to give another thought based on my experience. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's not let Ljubljana's bureaucracy make us a fool, and let's not let it run the country in such a way that it doesn't have to do too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak. He's not here. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u206	Sometimes when a person listens to debates in the opposition, he gets the feeling that we know everything about this crisis and that we have learned a lot from a very short period of time since some have been vehemently claiming in what brilliant economic conditions Slovenia is in. Also, practice in other European governments or world governments shows that governments are constantly taking new and new measures. The measures presented by the Slovenian Government so far, unfortunately, will not be the last, because economic and financial circumstances will not allow us to stop where we have drawn the line now. Once again, I would like to call on the National Assembly and Slovenian policy as a whole to enter into discussions on counter-crisis measures with the best of intentions and to acknowledge to each other and vice versa that we have to strengthen the competitive capacity of the economy to relieve it, to launch new investments and investments and thus economic growth, all the best purposes and sincere purposes; however, that there is a difference in techniques; and to believe that what measures are optimal in terms of available resources on the one hand and the real needs of the economy on the other. In view of the objectives set by the bill's proponents before us, the real economic burden and the start of the new investment cycle are shared by the Social Democrats in the National Assembly, which shows that we will not pursue these effects sufficiently and, on the other hand, that we are also jeopardising the sustainability of public finances. At a performance before the National Assembly, the Prime Minister said we had the courage, but we don't have the money. This resource constraints are very limited today in order to be even more creative in finding the best solutions to this crisis. Therefore, in the given situation, we are looking for those whom we know for sure, and this is our shared responsibility to give effect. Earlier, one of the discussers said that the United States had committed 12% of its GDP to the crisis rescue package. There is an important difference between the United States of America and Slovenia as a member of the European Union and the European Monetary Union. The United States is not bound by the common monetary policy criteria, but we all know where the US debt is; if I am not mistaken, it was only a short period during President Clinton's time when America also had a surplus in its balance sheet, in a long, more than a 10-year period over and over again. We know where this policy brought the American dollar. We do not want the euro to take the same path. The euro we trust with Slovenia and Slovenians, which also enjoys confidence in the wider European public. However, I am convinced, and this also shows a comparative overview of the measures taken by the Slovenian Government, that, like the Barack Obama rate, like the Angela Merkel rate or Gordon Brown rate, not without a backlog and without significant differences in measures, the Slovenian Government also stands at the helm with Borut Pahor. When we took the first package of measures, we saw that, at the end of January, the German government took very similar measures in its package to Slovenia. Why am I talking about this broader dimension? Slovenia and the Slovenian economy are closely involved in European and global flows. 70% of our economy depends on exports. Here we can do much to mitigate the consequences of the crisis - in the economy and in the tightened social relations. What I hope for, however, is that the great world economies will start to run and that all of these funds that they are investing in strengthening economic activity today will have an impact and, as a result, will also have an impact on better start-up in the Slovenian economy. In short, I think it is good for the opposition to take some initiative and make proposals on this issue as well. I do not think there is any debate, but if we repeat it again on the subject of this law several times more than we can listen to each other and understand from this what Slovenian society and the country need to fight the crisis successfully. If we attribute to each other good intentions and a sincere desire to help the economy and the country, then we are all on the right track together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me re-emphasize what distinguishes us. I've seen that there's been a lot of debate in this direction, that we all want something, and that we see it that way, that way, that way. In the opening act, I analyzed what this key difference was. Indeed, we have direct and direct measures to mitigate the consequences of economic uncertainty and crisis. They're the ones the government picked up. Therefore, it subsidises, on the one hand, the consequences of job losses or the risk of jobs by subsidising full-time employment. Of course, this law, in addition to being unclear, was inconsistent with the social partners and so on. On the other hand, it advocates an approach to direct money through state banks such as the Slovenian Development and Export Bank and other implementing institutions to economic operators. We've also told you here what the weaknesses are, so it's some kind of shift. First of all, it is necessary to approve this money, then there are calls, it lasts, and this gets a few hundred companies in the Republic of Slovenia, according to such and different criteria. This costs because it costs administration and, of course, the effect comes with a delay. Today, even if calls were issued at the time of the crisis, probably none of these investments would have produced serious added value. And we have a second approach, which we propose, is a direct role and assistance to businesses. It means reducing the tax burden on companies, which all companies receive to introduce tax reliefs that are accessible to all under the same conditions to reduce certain payment deadlines, thereby increasing the liquidity of the economy and so on. This is the horizontal of the entire economy. We are convinced that such measures would have a better effect and that it would probably take less money to do so. Why less money? Because we probably wouldn't have gotten so deep that we'd have to fix so much. Where are the resources? Only on the basis of excise duties in the budget balance are you forecasting 300 million euros in more resources. You know, when someone tells me he's got the courage and the money, then it means that that concrete activity is a very low priority on the list. Because if you put it high enough, you'd have money for it, because for a few measures, it was money. Simply put, you have decided on the ruling team for another approach. I think that this approach is worse, but unfortunately, it will be paid by those who are generally the weakest. So those whose jobs were already at a time when there was no financial crisis are at the threshold of profitability. There are quite a few in the Republic of Slovenia, still because they have not yet taken part in this restructuring. There is something else that I think is very important to stress here - that any crisis with some direct unloading can also be an incentive for restructuring. In fact, if we followed this approach of direct incentives to the economy and to destabilize the economy and at the same time devote a package of funds to the restructuring of the economy - which sometimes began with the Ministry of the Economy, I suppose now will do this when or who doesn't know who is returning to some old pattern of anger and so on - we could also solve those who get into trouble from the case to the case. Believe me, full-time subsidisation is a measure that will cost a lot of money, but the impact will be small, because no one can tell me that there is the same reception for some Gorenje, some Talum and some other company connected, for example, with textiles or some other similar industry. Such cases need to be dealt with individually, and measures to help these companies must also be implemented individually; they have already differed over periods, rather than in terms of purpose and level of resources. Well, the difference is in concepts, respectable. We propose, once again, a decommissioning of the economy, which applies to all economies equally, not only to those who will apply for the call for proposals and who will cover certain commissions. So don't think it's easy to simplify things.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the government representative, Madam Secretary of State? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The measure taken by this law, when viewed in terms of tax reliefs and reductions in tax rates, is entirely appropriate in itself. However, the Government considers that this is not the best measure at the moment. But it's a very expensive measure. The financial implications of the proposed law are just over €400 million. The measure in terms of the definition of State aid does not have the nature of direct State aid but rather of indirect State aid. And the government has decided that it is more appropriate at this point to intervene with truly direct state aid. And in the state budget's rebalancing, she spent €18 million on restructuring companies. And to encourage the development of the small economy, it has allocated 67 million, and I am talking about the additional money that we will use to directly stimulate the economy. Direct, of course, according to the rules laid down by the European Union directives, how direct incentives can be shared. It will allocate €10 million to promote and develop. Programmes to promote technological development will be allocated €57 million. I'm not going to list everything because there's going to be a discussion soon about the rebalancing. I agree with you that it would be the most appropriate, and this is what the Government has always advocated, including discussions on the indirect incentives offered by individual laws at the same time as the rebalancing, and then we could opt for a form of assistance. It is necessary to weigh whether we will maintain the level of the social state we have and whether we will also be building investment expenditure in the budget to accelerate economic development in certain segments, or whether we will go beyond tax relief and tax burden reduction. Which means we can't have the first one. Together, it is not simply going to work because you know that we are a small economy and that our problem is not only the size of the public finances and within this budget deficit, but our problem is also the responsibility to finance this deficit. These are the debates that are legitimate, but the government has already made this reflection through a rebalance, so in this case it does not advocate the proposed law and incentives that reduce fiscal resources, because it is confident that only through fiscal instruments will we not be able to resolve this crisis. Therefore, once again, I propose that these solutions, which we have in marriage, are not good solutions, and therefore I think we should not support them, of course in the context of the whole that is ahead of us, but are in themselves quite appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Because I see a raised hand, I'm opening an application for debate. Just one lap. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u213	All the debaters you've signed up, I'm warning you - every five minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u214	You took five seconds from me. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u215	Nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u216	Nothing for it, nothing for it, nothing for it. I'm kidding. Nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u217	I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u218	Nothing to do with it. I'm sure if I said so, believe me. Look, it's true. I fully agree with the government that fiscal resources are not enough. I'm sure it's not enough, and I think it would be a mistake to think otherwise. However, within a framework that we have proposed in some way as a solution, it is not only fiscal. This specific law is among the fiscal measures, and others are very important, and I have counted them twice today and will repeat them for the third time. I think that accelerated investment in state investments, in particular those with a long-term development impact, is also a very important measure, which is also linked to the use of European funds. The implementation of all other operational programmes for European funds is also an upgrade to these fiscal resources. Through the operational programmes we have cited a whole range of concrete measures: assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises, assistance to technological development, assistance to increase innovation, the development of economic centres, especially those for which studies show a sense of further development, and I am glad that, today, the business centre of Phoenix has already been mentioned among them. That, among such measures, the drawing-up of European funds is a whole lot of these, as I would say, targeted state aid through the drawing-up of European funds, which the European Commission has also recognised as useful and written on the skin of the developmental orientation of our economy. It is true, therefore, that not only fiscal resources are those, but also these resources are linked to the use of European funds through operational programmes and sources of cohesion policy, where the country, through European funds, can have a developmental impact on the country or, as a consequence, on its economy. But what are we facing? When I look at those numbers, I don't know if the balance has already been published, I don't know if it has yet been sent to Parliament, but the funds of the European Union are falling, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2009 balance, the importance of the data available, I will be very happy if I'm wrong. So, despite the fact that we have been in the financial perspective for two years, we would say that we have also spent this transitional period by employee validation of operational programmes and the whole procedure that we have already discussed a lot, there is no one here, let's say, at least, there is no significant acceleration in the absorption of European funds, not on this structural side, not on the cohesion side. And it is only in order that some breakthrough in road infrastructure construction, according to the data published, will be obtained by the Ministry of Transport less money in the balance as foreseen by the 2009 budget in force. Therefore, not in the area of fiscal resources or in other sources is not to detect some effective policy, but it is to be seen, not only after our assessment, also after the assessment of the economy and trade unions, inappropriate measures such as full-time subsidies, which will cost a lot of money and have little impact. How will one, say, a company that has a thousand employees facing, say, 30% less orders, help 60 euros per worker, that is to say 300 sixty euros per worker in six months, that is to say three hundred and sixty thousand euros per month for all workers or six months for all workers, that is to say, for one such company in such a situation, so I also proposed then to form one serious fund for these fifteen million or as otherwise for restructuring the economy to "case by case" to focus on these cases to see whether anything can be done, including in the construction of production and so on. But one more time. In fact, it is here to follow through the Government's proposals in a completely different way, in cities also a confusing approach. I know that this is not the fault of the Secretary of State who had to glue this together, that these are the various pressures of these, those, other, third ministries. Not to mention, however, that it would be possible to see in this budget any spirit towards the objective of a targeted budget, this ideal to which, I would say, all governments have been looking for, and no one has even come close to this approach, far from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to stress once again that in all this debate on the financial and economic crisis, it is important to look for concrete solutions to how we can overcome the obstacles we are facing and, of course, to stress that we certainly have two concepts; we have a government concept that somehow solves the economic and financial crisis with all the measures that have already been announced and which I will repeat to you again that we will have before us a picture of what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing and what it has done in such a short time, in 100 days. It must be said that all the measures taken in the first financial framework or in the first package are particularly preventive in nature and are similar to those taken by other countries within the EU. In fact, at its meeting on 11 November, the National Assembly adopted measures allowing the Government or the State to apply three or four more measures in the future, if necessary. The first are loans to credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance companies and so on. Others are state guarantees to credit institutions. The third are capital injections into credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings and so on. And the fourth is the redemption of the claims of credit institutions. Previously, we heard from the opposition, specifically by the SDS, that the state only helps banks, then we heard that their proposal to help banks was not adopted. In fact, I don't know what you want to do, except that you're guessing on some proposals and I don't think you want the economic trend to turn in a positive direction. Helping banks means helping businesses if we help businesses means helping to keep jobs. In addition, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act provisionally introduced an unlimited guarantee for the net bank deposits of beneficiaries. The following measure was the adoption of additions to the Finance Act. And if I just list them, I think they were very important. We have talked a lot about him today, especially the Full-time Grants Act. And, dear colleagues, it is true that this law will not solve the economic and financial crisis, nor is that its purpose. In addition, there will be a lot of other measures taken that are likely to have a better impact and solve the crisis. This law was adopted with the basic aim of maintaining jobs for as long as possible and achieving an appropriate effect. Companies have decided in one way or another to reduce working hours or to reduce production in any way. They took the subsidy offered to them by the State and thus committed themselves for a certain period, a period of six months so that they would not forgive and would not pay their prizes. This is a very important measure, especially so that we can bridge this crisis at this worst time until the "trend" turns and we can find solutions. For all those who say that the Government has done nothing in the field of measures, let me add that the Government has increased its investment facilities and intangible assets to ensure co-financing of the purchase of new technology equipment, to establish a guarantee to secure bank loans for a subsidised interest rate, to co-finance or co-finance development and investment projects, to establish a venture capital company with the envisaged start of operations already this year, to focus on the mobility of staff and interdisciplinary groups and to increase funds to promote technological development and research and development projects in enterprises. It must be said that in such a short period of time progress has been good, as far as action is concerned, to create four very important groups, A, B, C and D, within which we have essentially divided these measures. The first group A discusses measures in the area of finance and business liquidity, second group B on labour market measures, lifelong learning and social security, group C on measures in the field of infrastructure, energy, environment and sustainable development, group D on measures to improve the use of cohesion funds. I am sorry that it is on the part of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are hearing that nothing is being done towards making better use of European funds, but when we received very little European funding in the past mandate, and this government has set up a special commission to somehow increase the possibility of drawing on it and that everyone would have some of it. Mainly, I would like more honesty in solving the economic and financial crisis. Above all, it should be reiterated that this government has provided €600 million in the balance sheet for concrete actions and €590 million for those projects that you have envisioned in the previous mandate and for which you have not provided money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u222	One of the speakers mentioned 346 million in terms of increased revenue from excise duties on fuels, tobacco and alcohol in 2009. True, but at the same time we are faced with a radical reduction in some of the other revenues of the state budget. The definitive abolition of the tax on the payment sheet in 2009, a significant economic burden achieved during your government's time, minus 250 million. Income, minus 222 million, corporate income tax, already taken measures with similar purposes, minus 113 million, VAT reduction, minus 114 million, etc. While we are faced with a situation already mentioned by my colleague Levanič, in 2009, we must ensure that the things that you as the ruling coalition promised the public in the previous term are covered by the so-called 590 million-euro voter candy. It is important that the Government, with an exceptional understanding of the social partners here, has made progress, particularly in its agreement with the public sector unions, and has mitigated the situation. Today's debates in this Chamber, I think, suggest that some of you are convinced that the liquidity difference and the effect of the two million on the reduction of the deadline under the VAT Act and the tax relief for investment in the case of the Income Act, on the tax on the income of legal persons, will save the Slovenian economy. He won't be here. What we need to follow together is that for the money invested, we have the best possible development and social impact. You're talking about individual treatment of some companies. I think the government has already announced that. In particular, in the case of two companies, Gorenje and Revoz, the Finance Minister spoke about the need for the country to assist large Slovenian companies adequately. But when we talk about the crisis, many times we hear it, it may already sound like some kind of bottleneck, that the crisis is also an opportunity. I couldn't agree more. But only if we understand what the causes of this crisis are. That the causes of this crisis are accumulated challenges facing humanity; the fact that we are living beyond our capabilities; the fact that humanity has taken 20 million years to reach the number of two billion and only 60 to jump from two billion to nine billion; the fact that even in our society we are not aware of the value we have in Slovenian and Slovenian environments, that we are under-focused on the protection of water resources, clean air, the environment, and that from now on we must prevent every trace of Slovenian forests. As far as the measures and their effects are concerned. I strongly agree; and if this is the result of today's debate, I will personally be very pleased; that we must assess the effects of the measures already taken in the same way. Either those who are accepted by the National Assembly or those who are directly within the power of the Government. To find out what the crisis is doing and what it is not and, of course, those measures that do not work properly, we replace them with new ones. Today, a number of doubts have been raised as to whether or not the credit crunch has subsided. In the last month, the Government notes that credit activity is increasing again and this needs to be further reinforced. Because credit alone will be able to provide at least a bridge to the liquidity problems of companies. The measures they propose will achieve this on a substantial, substantially smaller scale, and I personally look forward to the proposal I expect from the Government on two guarantee schemes for crediting businesses. In short, this crisis will be an opportunity when we realize that the time we live in is a time that requires sustainable life and sustainable development, and when we know it, we will all enter into our lives, into our individual behaviors, then we will hope that both the community and Slovenia will live better, better.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I must say, I am happy and honored to receive so much attention in this congregation. We are entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of new enterprises that take risks, create and innovate not only products, but also whole processes and link business opportunities with resources they can find, combine and sell on the market. If we are to survive in this dynamic world, we must all act entrepreneurship more than once. And I'm glad you're all entrepreneurs all of a sudden. We can do business at home preparing dinner for guests, organizing birthday parties, graduations or planning vacations. It's not bad if we're entrepreneurship when we're planning a new house or remodeling an apartment. Entrepreneurship therefore follows us all the time and we can view it as an activity that improves our lives. How, though, can we engage in a business activity in the National Assembly? With an immediate analysis of the situation, clear objectives, well-thought-out plans, forecasting obstacles, skilled communication and the tendency to improve the long-term situation. When I listen to all this advice and wise suggestions from the former ruling elite, I wonder how it's possible for you to get all of a sudden when you're in opposition, so smart that you spend all of that advice around here? When you were four months ago, this was December 4, three months ago, saying that Slovenia is not and will not be in recession. On the other hand, the suspension of the reliefs caused by overheating the economy, the price of floscule and demagogics, not to say misdirection, which sometimes makes me feel a little bit strange. I agree that reliefs have been used for all the same, of course, in some cases by not giving the results we are expecting in what the current reliefs have been returned to. Here I mean the construction of various trading chains and investment I don't know where else. Not to mention that when we tried to do and enforce some things six months ago, even through legislation. At that time, of course, only €10,000 of an annual relief was sustainable in terms of financial facilitation. At that time, it is said half a year or a year ago, when there was a conjunkture, the time was time for relief and, of course, it also gave some signal to entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, that they could rely on it, that the reliefs would be implemented, in particular by S.p., and also invested in the long term. I'm sure it's necessary, perhaps, as you say, sometimes selectively to handle certain things. But when these things are arranged selectively, then this is not acceptable because it is necessary to regulate linearly that we are all the same. To be brief. I believe in the analyses and proposals of government experts who have prepared measures and will get a rounded image in the third package with the balance. I believed, as I said, even to you, when you said that more than €10,000 of reliefs per year were unsustainable and we did not actually get them. I do not want us to stumble and take reckless measures that would endanger public finances and undermine development policy and, consequently, social policies over the long term. In short, I will support the government's proposals. I believe that if they do not catch enough, we will accept others as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Allow me to touch just a little bit of Mrs Kramer's words. In fact, it has been said that in a way commendable that the law we are proposing has a good basis has a good purpose, but it is too expensive, as it would cost the country EUR 400 million, in the sense that the inflow into the state budget would be lower for so long. On 26 February, the Government sent an opinion on this law to the National Assembly. The opinion states, among other things: "New investment incentives would result in a drop in revenue of between 100 million and 150 million in the 2009 state budget." I believe this number, this estimate. This is exactly half of what the state budget will give to implement the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. And if we calculate the full-time subsidisation effect, I am not saying that there will be no benefit from this, which many companies are likely to survive and will extend their agony by six months, one year. Perhaps even some will avoid bankruptcy and a wide range of jobs, although with a 10% lower salary, will probably be preserved. However, if I compare the impact of one and the other approach, I cannot understand why you are so much opposed to our proposal to give up 100 to 150 million, as the Government says, revenue in the state budget, and thus to allow those healthy companies that are able to invest or be able to invest in research and development, to create new jobs with higher added value, because we all know, it is also said that this crisis will only be overcome by those companies that are capable of higher added value and development. I don't believe it, but to a large extent it is probably true, and this law would mean the realization of that very beautiful principle, that this crisis could also be an opportunity, an opportunity for our economy, an opportunity for better jobs, for new jobs that would somehow alleviate the growth of the unemployed. That's why you can't convince me that it's not wise to support this marriage. It could probably be amended later. I join the opinion of a colleague who called out, "Let the law live, not reject it immediately." And if possible, even amendment, so that the government will be satisfied that the thing will be feasible, that you will be satisfied, then you will lead it to the end. And I propose that because this is a first hearing, it is not a final vote, let us vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State indicated earlier with her hand that she wanted a word, but she did not sign up. Given that Mr Tsukati has now spoken about her debate, I think you agree, and you don't mind if I give her my word. Can I? Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I had no intention of making another call, but some clarifications are needed for the debate. Your conclusion on the financial implications of tax relief is correct. But that's not all marriage brings. The law also entails a reduction in the tax rate and the law also entails a different "tremma" of taxation of interest. We're talking about companies that are profitable. Not about companies going bankrupt. Development costs are already considered to be recognised costs when tax relief is provided when taxation is provided, so the tax base is on additional tax reliefs. And see if the company goes into development, it has over 60 million additional money available in the state budget to be allocated to such programmes and projects. I don't see why we should go the other way. If projects funded from the state budget have served well so far, why not in advance? Direct subsidies from the State budget, only to a substantially larger extent. However, this law is absolutely not in the context of the proposed budget rebalancing. EUR 400 million less revenue is collapsing the proposed rebalancing, and I reiterate that this law is not acceptable to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I have been a bit stabbed by the words of some fellow Members when they accused us of not wanting to impose laws on the government, to impose coalitions. We are proposing and proposing laws in the context of our actions so far. We propose laws as an upgrade to those laws adopted in the previous term in the National Assembly and by which we have released the tax burden, the tax burden on citizens, reduced the tax burden on companies and so on. We have introduced reliefs or reduced tax burdens on the income of legal persons. We also made and abolished the tax on paid wages. All these reforms, all these changes have been made in the previous mandate. And at the same time, we have carried out and implemented a number of social measures, including one that some of you have described as an electoral candy. We expect that you will, because you have committed yourself to leading Slovenia better, that you will upgrade the electoral mints of the previous term, that you will improve them, because this is to be expected in some normal process, in some normal evolution, and that you may add another one. After all, that is what our citizens deserve. And I hope you can do that. Speaking of invitations. The Secretary of State has previously listed one set of 10 million, 12 million and 60 million Euros. You know, one call for €10 million can be made by a thousand economic operators, and if everyone gets one, it means that on average the economic operator will receive €10 000. Subjects of various dimensions, from companies with ten employees to thousands of employees, or even more, will apply. I wonder if such measures of this level are even appropriate. The call was appropriate in the previous mandate when economic growth was high as an additional measure, as an additional aid to companies in order to further achieve their ambitions. In the situation in which we are, such selective approaches, when we focus very much on a particular purpose, are not appropriate. We must, in a situation where we are, relax and give everyone the opportunity to be, according to our knowledge, behaviour, through our contacts, business contacts and so on, find a partner, a solution, a production programme and also a technological solution. This is the ambition of the proposals proposed by our party. What you are proposing means focusing, selecting and selecting those who have applied for it. And let's say that a thousand companies apply to some kind of invitation to tender, it's the same thing. 900 will pay for the documentation to apply for the invitation to tender. Even where they hoped to win, they'd only have an extra cost. I do not believe that the purpose of the broadest measures of the economy is to place an additional burden on companies that will apply for tenders through this selection. I think that's the wrong approach. It is suitable for a situation of high economic growth when we want certain segments to be further stimulated and launched, but it is not suitable for a situation where there is, say, a general crisis, a general situation that is poor. But when you talk about situations in different countries around the world, when you list world leaders, those four or five that everyone knows would remind you of one thing. Everyone knows about the effects of Lehman Brothers, as they were in Germany, as they were in America. But no one tells what effect this Lehman Brother had in Slovenia. There is no answer to the question posed. We know about America, we know about Germany, we know about France, we know about everything, we don't know about ourselves. And when you say that, then we can talk about whether we are or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I won't wonder if we are or aren't, we certainly are, and we will. A little more optimism is needed in these times. However, I must say that today I am appalled at the debates of certain parties, particularly the opposition, which apparently lost its sense of social sensitivity with the change of mandate. It is said that buildings, which are based on fires, are not worth putting out to allow Slovenia to fail and will survive in these difficult times, or also in the field of [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] in particular in the area of social state. [[...]] I am glad that this government has concerns and is sensitive to these social transfers. If I say a few words, even after this pay reform, 142 million is fine. The case is countercyclical, the money will return and the investment cycle will be restored. I think it's important that social transfers go back to 213 million. Also 10 million for co-financing of children in kindergartens is an important number. Also, of course, 15 million for culture and according to the same principle 50 million for returning to telecommunications. This money, too, if everything is normal, will soon come to market. It's going to work stimulatingly and countercyclically. Given that we cannot adopt this law because there is no basis for this in public finances, it is necessary to say, on the other hand, that we will invest in creating new jobs with a rebalancing of 234 million, the Ministry of the Economy - 95 million, for technological development and research, which will also give new jobs - 68 million, the recapitalisation of the bank - 160 million and for the rights of the unemployed also 53 million. That seems important to me. In these coming times, it is not primarily about who will make the most profit and whether then they can reinvest it in development, and then you will fight for it to pay as little as possible in the end. I think that in these years Slovenia will demonstrate in particular whether at least the emergency survival of all is possible. That is to say, the power of the chain will be measured by the weakest article, and I am therefore pleased to keep the elements, which we have also written in the Constitution, that Slovenia is and will be a social state. We must not talk and think only about gazelles where they will reinvest their profits, but we must also see the story of the workers of Simens of Maribor, the IUV workers of Vrhnika, Beta Metlika and the fates of the Mura. I am one of those who think that every job in these factories is important, that every year, every month we extend it is important, because there is a specific person in the back, a person with a name and family name who has to pay the bills, the apartment and tomorrow. Therefore, to think only for a short period of time where we will reinvest these profits in those who are not doing the worst right now is not in place. It is also important to think of those who are taking this Slovenia forward, these are certainly small, medium and large companies that are successful, but with the care of them do not forget the social state. Our job is to take care of each other. And as far as this law proposed by the opposition colleagues is concerned, I will be happy and good for all of us if we are able to adopt it in the coming years, under appropriate conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the session of the assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour, that is at 17.35 p.m., by voting on the decisions yesterday and today on the agenda items discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u234	Dear Members and Members. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on amendments and proposals for laws. Members and Members, please check the operation of your voting device - the orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. We vote, the vote is on. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just say that this law planted a rotten egg on us, if you want it to be different, in a parable. We first got into reading John Cankar, and then in the second reading we talked about the work that Izidor Cankar wrote. It is true that the name is the same, and the content and author are completely different. Once again, I say that those who will adopt this law will be supported for the first time in history; and I warn you again, look at the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, see Article 11 of this Act, this law has 30 articles, not only 16 and mutual; and look at this and you will see that we will adopt the law illegally. A comparison of those two words, and I hope you understand. Once again, I warn you to be "fair", be honest, not to us, but especially to the Slovenes and Slovenes, to lie. Don't lie, don't cheat! Article 22 of 30 has been amended from the basic examination to this consideration. It would be fair for the National Assembly to reject this law and to give it the way it was converted into a new treatment, even if it was an emergency, I do not care, but that we could talk about such a law as it was proposed, and that we should not even talk about it today. In the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that this was a planned action, it was a cowardly egg, we read Ivan Cankar in the first reading, and in the second Izidor Cankar, completely different content. And for all that will come, it will be all of you who will press "for" this law today. In article 11, once again, we allow those who have worked illegally to have the right to some profits and revenues, "if...", please read it! Be honest with the Slovenian people! We will not be in the Slovenian National Party and we do not want to have anything to do with this law, but you can make excuses for Europe or anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u237	Thank you very much. When we discussed this point on the committee, we expressed our expectation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that this issue would be addressed in a transparent way, where the provisions will be clearly expressed, that there is no possibility of profit to be generated, going in a non-transparent way into some new products. Unfortunately, this position has not been adopted on the Committee. Nor is it expected to be adequately prepared by the coalition, and above all by the Government until today's meeting. Even in today's debate, despite the strong arguments put forward by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular, there was no such support, which is why I cannot personally support such a solution in this law. That is why I will abstain from voting on the overall support, even though I think that the whole law is a step in the right direction, but without this provision, I think it does not reach the goal which would be for the benefit of the mutual insurers in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the amendment, which shortens the repayment period from 21 days, which was adopted by the Finance Committee on a proposal from the Government, for 14 days, because we believe that the reasons for the initial withdrawal of the deadline of 7 days are unfounded and, in fact, continue to work in silence for the tax administration in the extremely liberalisation of their performances. On the other hand, I do not think it is true that everyone who overpaid VAT should be hostages of potential abuses or those who want to embezzle the country or taxpayers. I therefore believe that if there are reasonable suspicions that someone wants to cheat the country with VAT return, the tax administration has every opportunity to introduce appropriate procedures and thus prevent it. However, that the vast majority of companies in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular large exporters, are prominent companies which are certainly not in these tax rolls, and it is therefore merely to refer to an anomaly or some possibility of abuse of such short-term terms in terms of tax evasion or other speculations, unfair and not in place. All countries with very short deadlines for the refund of overpaid VAT also have this fuse to extend it if there is a reasonable suspicion. I hope that some Gorenje, who exports a lot of its articles, is probably not the one who will be subject to these sanctions because of the speculations of some tax collectors. Tax abuses are now being used as a reason why such a proposal cannot be supported. So, we think it's from the vine. The fiscal reasons are also unfounded, and I am very pleased to be attached to this by the coalition Members, who say that those who have ever had anything to do with the implementation of the budget can also compensate for the liquidity gap towards the end of the year by delaying certain payments. We all know this, and especially the current government knows this because, in fact, the same people sitting at the Ministry of Finance served very often about five, six, seven years ago. So, I think this would be a very important step in terms of supporting the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Chairman. Collaborators and associates! There is no way to support such a change if we know that this change is irresponsible, if we know that the information systems allow us 21 days and not more. So please, if you have any answers to the question of how you will ensure, if you insist on so many days, how do you think it is possible to ensure fair and effective control? For if you do not have an answer to this, this proposal is irresponsible and, of course, it does not deserve support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u242	Thank you very much, but with a warning, this was a debate, not an explanation of vote. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, an answer to my colleague Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u244	I won't allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you very much. But I'll explain my voice. Of course, I will be happy to support the amendment we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is an amendment that supports, advocates and appeals to all of us on the opposition side in particular. That is why you, respected colleagues from the post, today or now you are gathered in the entire number, this morning, when we discussed, you were something, by the Government almost none, and now not at all, although this is a topic that would be considered as being here by the entire ministerial assembly - well, the secretary has certainly been commended, it was here, but it would be considered that there would be a President of the Government and several other ministers. Nevertheless - look, this is an invitation, a wish, a request from our economists, please give them a voice! But if you don't want the government to break your spine, press the quorum. Look, the opposition will be yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u246	Mr. Grill [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u247	I voted for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u249	We will vote, and I personally, for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u250	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. I'll back the amendment myself. In fact, this law is a measure which I believe should be among the first actions of the government coalition in this economic and financial crisis to promote the economy. Indeed, the fact is that some members of the coalition also took part in the Ptuj Economics Club, where one of the major entrepreneurs said that more than €15.20 million could not be obtained for the fights of €100 or €200,000 at that time. This is why such measures, when returning overpaid VAT in the shortest possible time, would also solve their business and liquidity problems, would be welcome and would be expected by economists. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially the coalition, if you are unable to take effective measures, then at least listen to the opposition and help your own economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u252	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u253	Thank you. Unlike fellow Members of the SDS, I will remain loyal to my principles and speeches with my colleague Silvan Majhenič in the Slovenian National Party and will confirm the first and second amendments tabled by the SDS. Once again, I am in favour of this amendment, unlike the decision of the previous law from the colleagues there.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the Government's amendment to Article 2. We vote, the vote is on. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 24. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm asking you nicely - when I say we're making a decision, a little faster! [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] In doing so, I would like to inform you, because this amendment has been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group's second paragraph is irrelevant. [[...]] We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended law were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Excuse me, excuse me! It's a little more complicated. One amendment to the second reading was adopted of the proposed amendments and the Council of State will therefore carry out the third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. The text of the law will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Please, Mr. Tanko, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I suggest you take a look at the hall before releasing the voting button. In the event that you have released the vote on the first amendment to Article 2, you have not done so, and the parliamentary group of its views has not been able to explain, nor have some Members. But I'm predicting we're going to table an amendment for the third hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you very much. There's something I want to say, and I won't. [[A laugh in the hall.]] I just wanted to say that I've been turned against you all along, you've only raised your hand too late. Let me take my opinion, too. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're making a decision. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members voted for 75, against 2. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. We think that the measures taken or planned by the Government are better implemented by the Social Democrats, which is the aim of this law, namely, decommissioning the economy and promoting new investment activities. In our views in this first reading, the social democrats have assessed that the consequences of the adoption of this law would also pose a threat to the sustainability of public finances, thus avoiding the deficit of over 3% of the Maastricht criteria, thereby jeopardising what we consider our common goal. This is to ensure the stability and sustainability of public finances and the relatively favourable access of Slovenia, its economy and the population to credit resources, which is particularly important in times of crisis, including for the opposition's so-called objectives, such as ensuring the liquidity of the economy in these times of crisis. We will vote by the Social Democrats to establish that this law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u259	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the contrary, we believe that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. The key intention of this law is to put all economic operators in the same position to relieve them, that this is one of the key fiscal measures in decommissioning. I am pleased that many in this Parliament have already changed their minds in the last four months on this subject. Indeed, initially these fiscal measures have also been completely rejected, and later selectively, they have been adopted by the Government, which says they are its measures for decommissioning the economy. I am pleased that, under such a condition, I would also deny myself to the proposal if we supported this today and that the Government will sign the following, because the proceeds and the impact of these proposed measures on decommissioning the economy are crucial. I am convinced that such a measure is a cornerstone in the mosaic of measures that the Slovenian economy needs to take in order to directly relieve economic operators, reduce tax rates and target incentives with tax incentives to invest in research and development and equipment. You can also give a good compliment to all other measures, in particular measures where the country can rapidly invest in infrastructure - development infrastructure, road, environment, information, energy infrastructure - and a very appropriate compliment also to other operational programmes to draw on European funds that promote investment in technological development, innovation, competitiveness of all types of economic operators. So if we make a mosaic of measures that we are missing from the current government, which on the one hand would be fiscally burdensome to the economy and, on the other hand, accelerate the absorption of those funds that Slovenia has already approved and from which we cannot and will not and will not be able to escape, i.e. European both structural and cohesion resources, we could make an ideal combination of aid, support to the Slovenian economy. That is why we also had some resources, especially resources under excise duties, including some other resources - with delays and other solutions to wage reform in the public sector - and this would be a comprehensive measure which should be addressed in a timely manner. This, however, resulted in a drop in some measures that ultimately resulted in no one believing in the proper action of the Government in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Look, I will be happy to support this bill we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I believe that, as such, it has been supported by at least a few Members of the Coalition in silence, so I propose that all those who support this proposal, which is in favour of voting "yes" and that we again allow this law to be adopted for further consideration. As we have already said, this is what our economy expects. Many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, currently in difficulty when they cannot compete with or sell existing productions in Europe in the world, have desires, ambitions to restructure their production somehow for new products. By allowing them tax relief, they will have the courage, willpower and the means to approach it. Let us therefore proceed to make this possible. Finally, this proposal also brings decentralisation, because it is also a step towards making us more successful in managing the moving crisis, whether we want to or do not want to go to Slovenia, especially because our government does not know how to respond to these challenges. Therefore, I regret that the ruling coalition and the government do not have these solutions and that we must bring them to the opposition, but not for the purpose of being here demogosian. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] however we define it, but in particular to help the government and also the coalition. [[...]] So listen to our suggestions. Don't be so ideological about it, support it, because it's not. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u263	The law cannot be voted on, in particular because of what has now been explained on the occasion of explanations of vote. It is simply that, at this point, there is simply too much responsibility to compete with the cheap, with the demagogic laws, to introduce confusion into the public and to pretend that there are recipes that will save the Slovenian economy tomorrow and something else. I have undeniably said in the debate that I do not agree with the way in which the Government is doing it now, and that is what the former and all governments have been very fond of doing so far. I am convinced that the government is the worst host and the way it collects money and then through different calls, through different commissions, through different types and over a long period of time, and controls that it is the least effective money invested. I am sure that it is best - and I believe that discussions will later lead to those who make money being able to keep it with themselves - yes, Mr Tanko! - and they'll know best how to load it themselves. This has nothing to do with me voting against this law right now. I believe that tomorrow, the next day, when new measures are on the table, they will also find a place to argue in this way, as I am trying to understand these things on my own. I would vote in favour if we didn't have a rebalance on the table if we didn't have such a big task and challenging projects ahead of us. But at this point, I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I see another hand's up. That's why there's another application. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u265	Thank you. In addition to the above arguments, I was persuaded to vote in favour by the coalition member's statement that his government is the worst master. So this is a very important argument that money remains where it is created, in the economy, to serve investment, to create new productive jobs and not to be used to buy new voters, which this government has been preparing and doing as its only priority in recent years. So I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Jelinčić the Trinitarian, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to the question of Mr Viktor Jelinčič the Trimenite, on the so-called issue of the deleted. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u267	Thank you. I apologize, Mr President, for meeting with the President of the Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues from both sides, from all winds, from all political options! If you have anything to do with Slovenk and Slovenes, our Slovenia, Slovenia, the rule of law, the rights of Slovenes and Slovenians living in this country, then you will press the "for" button. All the public - all those who press the "against" button are against the Slovenes, against the Slovenes, against the 80,000 unemployed, against the 200,000 Slovenes and Slovenes who live on the threshold of poverty and do not hope to tell the truth about the question. So much so that you know what conscience you're going home with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to Mr Zvonko Černač's question on the resolution of the so-called deleted issue. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u269	Thank you very much. It's time for the midterm. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister. The answer was flawed. Most of the questions were not answered at all. On the other hand, it was said by the President of the Government that compensations to so-called deleted persons who had all been denied, that they would not be, would not endanger public finances and that the Government would monitor the situation. However, if it is found otherwise, it will propose a limitation of compensation by law, which is formally and legally impracticable, as they form the basis for indemnity decisions that are being issued expeditiously. The Slovenian Democratic Party has introduced a constitutional law into the legislative procedure which would enable the finalisation of this issue in a way that would not endanger public finances and subject to individual treatment. This is also the only way to prevent those who have speculated by self - conquest from paying the damages on the backs of those who have been really hurt. Such a solution, i.e. by constitutional law, was also supported by the former President of the State, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, who is in a letter dated 9. 1. 2006 invited the presidents of the parliamentary parties to an agreement. That's when he wrote it down, among other things. I quote. "The government has recently drafted a proposal for a constitutional law. It's time to make a deal. Slovenia needs one. Sit together and try to find a solution." Mr Borut Pahor, as president of the SD at the time, advocated a consensus which is a prerequisite for the adoption of constitutional law, as he wrote in his reply to the President of the State of 16 January 2006: "I know that the solution to the constitutional law is not ideal, but it is probably the only possible." End of quote. Yesterday it was said that the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected. Hold it! And we all agree with that. However, compliance with the decision does not mean the issuing of decisions on its basis without a legal basis, as point 8 of the decision is also not directly enforceable, as the President of the Government reasoned yesterday. 9 top legal experts, to mention only some: Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Dr. Rajko Pirnat, Prof. Tone Jerovšek, Prof. Franci Grad and so on, in relation to the direct enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court’s decision in the manner done by Minister Katarina Kresal, has been found to be negative, since in the Constitutional Court’s decision they do not see a direct basis for the issue of administrative decisions and point 8 of the Constitutional Court’s decision to be enforceable and that the enforcement of point 8 of the Constitutional Court should be regulated by law. The debate that we are proposing should therefore, therefore, clarify in particular the reasons that prevent the adoption of the constitutional law and confront different views. In finding consensus on this issue, it is not possible to ignore half a million Slovenian citizens and citizens who have not given any one in this country mandates for unilateral decisions, and in particular not the decision taken by Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, because this decision is also not legally justified and is particularly harmful for the country. The Group of Members will, of course, support the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u270	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u271	Thank you. I'm going to make this proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u272	Just a minute. Applications are under way. I can see more hands, they're rising very slowly, but they are. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support this proposal for a public debate in the National Assembly, because the matter is so important and, according to the Government President's response, deserves a broader debate before things get all the way to the end. They were already involved in the previous Robbery government when Minister Bohinc began to issue decisions. Then, according to the legal profession, we wanted to resolve this by means of a constitutional law. Of course, things got messy again right at the beginning of this government by issuing these supplementary decisions, even with a court decision already issued, where it returns or pays to have someone on this list of so-called deleted. However, it must be made clear that we have always been in favour of dealing with cases on a case-by-case basis. I personally know that because I also cooperated and helped some who did not apply for such or other reasons at the time, they did not regulate their citizenship, and in the process they could arrange it if they wanted to. But it's mainly for those who wanted to wipe out our country. And we must not allow this kind of rescue. However, problems need to be resolved individually.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I will not support the debate for a simple reason, because this would be a very cheap demagogy. This is a question of the rule of law and a question of the solution of a problem that has not been resolved in recent years. This was simply not a solution because there was no political courage. And it is because of this political courage that I will vote against such a demagogic, low and, in fact, completely political debate, which will remind me of the agitprop propaganda from when I was under 14 years old and when some were still members of the Union of Communists, not the current democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u277	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. My voice will go against it, too. But my voice will probably not change anything, because today's biggest opposition party has decided to set up a new ultimatum. You have decided to draw up your scenario in order to hold this debate in this National Assembly. Today, you gave the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, as I said, an ultimatum: whether he would convene a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, or whether, I quote, Mr Tank, you would " table, make a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly". It's gonna be okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u278	Mrs. Zupevcheva, please, if you don't discuss [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u279	I justify why I will vote against it. My voice, therefore, your decisions to have a debate in the National Assembly will not change, so your cards are anyway exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u281	Thank you very much. As far as the Commissioner's response is concerned, he was decisive, clear and concrete. There's a record somewhere where the smart guy's got a word for it. And I have been pleased with what the mandate holder has said, and you will remain to make every decision in your own conscience. Of course, the case of the deleted is not about compensation, but it is about determining a permanent residence. As far as compensation is concerned, several thousand additional decisions have been issued a few years ago as a result of these supplementary decisions: 24 lawsuits, 6 legally resolved, none of them in favour of those requiring compensation, and Mr Todorovic's case on Ptuj is still not legally binding. But when it comes to compensation, it is right and proper for Members to have the same length of time for all these matters when we are correcting injustices in the law on victims of war violence. During the postwar period, they were undoubtedly done, they needed to be corrected, and if we did harm to anyone, of course, there must be some compensation for them. As far as the amount is concerned, if we look at the story, the denationalisation, you'll see that we've gone into the numbers that mean millions, as well as two billion euros. That is why my voice now goes towards overheating political space, blackmail and intolerance to other thinkers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u283	I will certainly support this debate, because the fact is that we do not all speak the same language at this time. What nonsense can then be snuck into newspapers or other media headlines, as shown yesterday’s meeting. In some of the addresses you can read the claim made behind this counter, "the only solution can be legal". Yes, men of God, what's more legal than constitutional law! Do you know what was the point of such a claim on its own and then the whole articles that stated that the proposal for a constitutional law was unacceptable are made from this point of view? In fact, more legal solutions are possible, but the legal and just solution that would establish the same criteria for everyone and that would only avoid inequalities before the law is just a constitutional law. And this has been called upon by many constitutional lawyers, who, contrary to what you have claimed in the last days, are now publicly warning themselves that they still think that the constitutional law is the best solution, the legal solution, and the same as Borut Pahor, and the same opinion was given by the late Dr. Janez Drnovšek, who even left it in a special letter as his political legacy. And today, the political legacy of Dr. Janez Drnovska is being realized by the SDS along with others who are willing to talk about constitutional law, and everyone else is breaking this legacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u284	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I will be happy to support this initiative, the proposal to hold a public debate on this issue. For in the light of the answer given by the President of the Government to this question, I think it is more than necessary for a public debate to take place here. I think that with the President of the Government, according to his views over the past months, the years, and what he has given now at this meeting, there are so many differences that it is right to have a debate here where solutions that are in favour of the whole of Slovenia are being found. It is not here now whether this debate is held in favour of the opposition or position. This is the debate that is needed for the benefit of Slovenia, because the deleted and all of the things involved are in such a form certainly to the detriment of the Slovenian budget, the Slovenian taxpayers and, above all, those who fought for Slovenia. Last but not least, right now the current theme of the university is whether or not we will join in Slovenia. Only the compensations that they will receive - and I can certainly claim that - will be eliminated by these decisions will exceed at least two or three investments that could be earmarked for the university. It is therefore right to look through the general debate in the National Assembly to hold this debate and find solutions that will benefit all of us. Therefore, I also appeal to the coalition Members to support this initiative, which I have already mentioned, for the benefit of all of us and not just the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u286	Thank you very much. All I see is Mr. Blacky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal for a debate on my behalf. Look, it's a debate and we're deciding today, nothing else. This is a debate on the response of the President of the Government; an answer which left quite a few additional open questions and dilemmas. On the other hand, it is a question that is very widely distributed to the public, on the one hand, and on the other hand it wants and requires answers to questions that are not clear. And the debate is an ideal opportunity to clarify and clarify, on the one hand, the legal issues on this issue and to face substantively those views that prevent consensus on the regulation of this issue. I firmly believe that the issues so-called deleted by what is being done now will not be settled and will not be closed. Once again, the Slovenian public will be ruffled, and the worst end will be drawn by those who actually regulate this problem. The Constitutional Court did not impose direct decisions. The legal experts who have explained their views in this regard in five broad points have explicitly stated that, under the explicit provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court is a negative legislator, which means that if the laws are found to be inconsistent with the Constitution, the laws can be repealed. In accordance with Article 153(4) of the Constitution, however, decisions of the administrative authorities, which the Ministry of the Interior is undeniable, must be based on the law or other applicable regulation. Therefore, the 8th point is not technically feasible. Despite these findings, we cannot go past the constitutional provisions before the legal order which must apply to everyone in that country in the same way. The solution to this problem, the solution to this issue, which is formal and also of a substantive nature, is certainly the most favourable solution is the constitutional law. And the point at which the debate needs to be opened is why the solution with consensus on this issue is possible. This is a proposal for a debate which I will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u288	Thank you very much. I'm opening another application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I will vote against the proposal. The Prime Minister's response was clear. I know that, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of the opposition will ensure that we will talk about this a few more times because the proposals on this matter are given. Interpellation also has this purpose, including the introduction of a proposal for a constitutional law with this purpose. And in all these cases, you will be speaking half-truths or untruths. Just like you're doing today. I think that citizens and citizens need not be heard many times if your half-truths and untruths are to be heard. That what I say is true, please read once in peace the interview by Mrs. Dragica Vedam Lukič in the last issue of the Journal or Lens. She was a constitutional judge back then. She argued with certainty that the Constitutional Court took a long time before it examined all the circumstances of the deletion and that it could now be held with certainty that it was not a case, but a conscious policy of the then government. The Constitutional Court has gathered corruption and has said such strong words: a conscious policy of the then government against a group of people who were not willing to go to the government at the time. At the same time, she said that the injustice, unconstitutionalness and lawlessness that had been caused must now be abolished. I propose that the National Assembly ensure that citizens and citizens who do not read such long texts receive objective information from the National Assembly, not that the current opposition will constantly and repeatedly spread untruths that completely distort the real problem and the actual picture. That is why, once again, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u291	I'll vote against it myself. With this vote, I want to protest the abuse of Dr. Janez Drnovska's name. Those who have read his thoughts know that they speak of good and righteous. Those who spoke today about his work in the former Federation, his work as Prime Minister, his work as President of the Republic - this is the political legacy of not one party, but of all the Slovenian people - you know that the thoughts fueled by hatred on your part are fundamentally contrary to the spirit and good that the late President of the Republic has tried to spread. And as long as the debate on the deleted drives this hatred of yours, I declare that I, too, have been erased.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I will, of course, support the proposal to hold a debate, and I will hold this debate without any hatred whatsoever. I would like to say that at the time when this matter was being settled, I myself was in a place where I was responsible for having these people who would not directly settle the status, I had to send a notice that this would not happen, that they would gain everything they needed to be able to stay in Slovenia and all the rights arising out of it, and we had to tell them exactly what they had to do. Some have not done so, so this problem is what it is for me, and I remain that there is no problem of deleted persons. But I'd like to give you another comparison. We had previously discussed the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, and the State Secretary mentioned that this law could not be adopted because it would entail additional obligations for the state budget of EUR 400 million. Respected, the issuance of decisions to deleted persons means, as a consequence, actions and damages, which will be twice, three times higher than that aid to the economy, which would not be possible, but could be deleted. And then there's the next one. I come from an area running for the university. Thousands and one reason is why the university wouldn't be organized, why it's like that, it's like that, and it's like that. This would also help tourism directly. I come from this area alone, and I know that the university would cost maybe only a third of that money. But that's the problem, but there's no problem for so-called deleted. Decisions should be issued immediately. And we're talking about I don't know what obligations the country has towards Europe. We will have to pay something, not Europe, so we must decide in a way that is right. And certainly the project of the university or those tax exemptions of legal persons is more important. I will therefore support this debate, because some things need to be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I will also support this debate that is under way. Let me try to convince you, too, that in 2004, I worked or worked at the Ministry of the Interior when 4,000 decisions were being issued there to the so-called deleted or, as I say, to the transposed ones. Of those 4,000, because they were released because they were issued by some records from the year X back, a few hundred came back, and later the interior ministry could find that they were sent to addresses that do not exist, that they sent them to people who are not here to send them to dead people. Second. Especially significant is data 8.305 and at the time of Mrs Kresalov 25.671, while counting the same people, they probably know the same mathematics, natural laws speak, they should be less, not more. Personally as part of the war for Slovenia, I also experience insults from all those who speak as you speak. I believe that's how all those who held arms were over 18 years old and knew what they were doing. That is also why I will vote in favour of this real debate, because today the officers who have been hit by the actions that are taking place in this country today are speaking. Of course, also because the damages up to a few days ago were absolutely impossible, but when the first one was awarded, they are possibly possible and we are still talking and we are still deceiving that the decision means nothing. That's not true! The decision is the basis for compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u297	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! I cannot support this proposal, inter alia, because of this, not because any merit of self-reliance is given no one the right not to correct the wrongs that have been done and not to admit, for example, compensation if someone is entitled to them. Katji, the problem of such debates is not that they want to defend Slovenia, state finances and so on, they talk about the poor - by the way, the poor fell into worse poverty with the law on social transfers, but they didn't think that anyone had anything to eat and so on. But to go back. It is simply that the debaters are trying to convince the Slovenian nation, which in many ways is obsessed with these, I am also lying about defending something good. They try to convince them that someone is not justified in correcting the wrong because they do not like it. Where we will go, if we depend on the rule of law being applied to us only if any of those who demand this debate like us or not. And that's why it's going. I was wiped out when I was a year old, not yet, because I was Slovenian. Gentlemen who want this debate, we'd like to erase someone because he wasn't Slovenian. For example, five thousand children who have not applied for citizenship are listed as being opposed to self - conquest. By the way, gentlemen, democracy can be against someone, so you can't and you can't take a permanent residence. Even if they were all against self - conquest, if they were all members of the army, they should not have taken a permanent residence, but they could have been treated as those who in one way or another harmed the state. That's the way I'd agree to it, but I don't agree with yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I see your hands are still up, so once again, please, the application is running and please, if you can sign up. I'm sorry. I made a mistake listening to the debates, the explanations. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Members, I will support the proposal for a debate on this important topic, and I must say that last year, the President of the Republic, Mr Türk, reflected, already in that speech, that the rule on behalf of the half-truths is a morally repudiated act and that this was the rule of the former party. I see that the ruling one again wants to rule in the name of half-truths and even half-truths to the opposition. See, in this case, you also want to protect the aggressors on account of some individual injustices and also allow the aggressors to exhaust the Slovenian state. This case of Mr Todorovic is symptomatic and symbolic, he was in the same factory as I am employed, and I know how a group of militant pro-Serbs prepared a plan to replace all leaders from the rally forward and also anticipated arrests; and this was announced publicly by Ptuj and around there. And now they're national heroes to you. If Slovenia were more radical, such people could also become "persone non gratis". With all the right, the Slovenian state would then declare such people "persono non grata, who fought publicly and openly against Slovenia. Slovenia didn't do it. She was generous, she was merciful, but they're arrogant again today. They demand their arrogant hatred of compensation from this country. Support them. Stand by! But you will also receive a bill from the people to pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes. I thought you had a replica before, but you told me you had a procedural question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u301	Mr President! First of all, I strongly protest that you're trying to read minds. This is a sign of your arrogance and ignorance and I ask you to conduct the meeting in accordance with the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that applies to all of us. That's the first one. Second. I wanted to protest this flood of hate speech given by the ruling coalition, where words are vehemently used as a lie, a lie, an hatred without any argument being made. In particular, at that moment, I wanted to propose that, for all the new Members, including the honourable SD Member who spoke at that time, the 2006 Drnovšek letter, which was sent to the Government, the National Assembly and all the political parties, in which Mr Janez Drnovšek explicitly supported the proposal of the Constitutional Law, which was drafted at that time by the government of Janez Janša, and called for negotiations, for the drafting of a compromise text and thus for political wisdom. And he left it as his political legacy. Those of you who were not in the National Assembly at the time may not have been familiar with this. But I kindly ask you, not your ignorance and ignorance, then to build up with insults for those we know and have, by the way, also these documents, this letter by Drnovšek has also been made public. I propose, Mr President, that the letter be distributed to all, so that we will all know what we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u302	Thank you very much. First: what you have proposed can be organized in your own line. That's not the kind of thing you want. [[...]] This is not a matter for the leadership of the National Assembly to do so. That's the first one. Another time. For my assessment of what you gave me - thank you very much, I am honored. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u303	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not support the proposal for a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question put forward. I believe that the President of the Government has explained not only once, but at least twice, if not three times, his views on the solution of the deleted issue, including his attitude towards the constitutional law and explained why his position on the constitutional law has changed at least twice. It is also not true that the party of the Social Democrats in the pre-election period did not express its views on the deleted. On several occasions, the public question as to how the party will act if Borut Pahor is elected as Prime Minister of the Government has clearly and briefly answered that this issue will be resolved. And now we are on the best path that the injustice that has been done is corrected, just as it is for the rule of law, as the Constitution says, that we are all equal before the law and that we have the right to decide, regardless of the generous offer of citizenship, that we do not accept citizenship, but no one has the right to take permanent residence because it is a fundamental human right. I would be happy, just as some have rejoiced today if people have finally stopped poisoning the atmosphere with hatred and a constant repetition of stories that I am now convinced that they may not believe and must be constantly repeated. There have been many opportunities to discuss deleted, as many appear to be. But to convince the public or me that the government's answers were not enough, they won't have [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u305	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will also, of course, vote against this proposal to renegotiate the response of the Prime Minister to the parliamentary question. This is mainly because I know that it is not possible to convince certain people of anything else, but to save you, us and the Slovenian public the opportunity for the opposition Members to actually poison this atmosphere in Slovenia and to introduce so much hatred and lies. Yes, lies, this is a beautiful Slovenian word for the ugly thing, as they were just about to be erased, and I expect there will be more. It pains me when some of them refer to the late president, Dr. Janez Drnovska. He who read this letter accurately knows that he wrote in this letter that he is accepting the constitutional law as a basis for solving this issue; it is said to be a basis, something that he might then consider to be a building block. But he was able to express this opinion, but he is always at the National Assembly to assess whether such a constitutional law is acceptable or not. And just as you explain the rule of law and claim that the only acceptable way to adopt a constitutional law is if you listen well, you suggest that constitutional law allows you to derogate constitutional provisions on human rights. But, my dears, even if you do so, the Declaration on Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and other instruments that make us a democratic country because we ratified them. And you will not prevent us from continuing to advocate for democratic, legal and work in this direction. So, we'd save you one try when you're exposed and you tell the Slovenian public your face as you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u307	Thank you so much for saying that. If the National Assembly wants it to be taken seriously as an institution, it must act accordingly. If this National Assembly wants, and the Members and Members who sit in it to take the institutions envisaged for our functioning of the Constitution into account, then we must probably take ourselves most seriously. And this current explanations of vote, unfortunately, I don't think so. Therefore, we must not be surprised if not all the answers to our questions will be as we would like them to be. I guess we're not like the electorate and the electorate, either. There is nothing binding on us in our decision-making: not past experience, not a letter from anyone. And I'm not going to let you be a first-time Member of Parliament to sob anyone's brains. I don't care if it's the opposition MP or the former dead president. I just have to do things and make my own decisions. The things that make decisions easier, the things that make them harder. I find it interesting to listen to the explanations of others as to why they make the decisions they make. I have to make a different decision than my colleague Petan, because I think it's a completely discounted comparison of the possible costs that would result from returning the status deleted. Comparing these costs with costs, I don't know, the university or the resolution of the economic crisis. No human life is worth less than any university. Every life erased is worth more than the university and more than the entire Slovenian economy - as far as I am concerned, of course - and I am a humanist. But whoever doesn't, let him vote differently. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal for a debate. It was noted that the President did not respond to all that had been announced in the request for an answer when the Prime Minister of the Government answered his question. The president only read what they wrote to him. In the second part, the debate of the President of the Government went completely beyond what was required of him. The second reason why I will support this debate is as follows. Not only has the number of those who are supposed to have been so-called deleted increased significantly during this period, but it has systematically joined this project. Here came the request of the generals of the Yugoslav People's Army or of the Yugoslav People's Army officers requiring a special, different treatment from those to whom they are entitled. A law was subsequently introduced here, allowing other rights to be granted to widows after former members of the Yugoslav People's Army. Last but not least, the deleted have also proposed that a special law be introduced into the National Assembly, which would allow them some compensation, which would then be sued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, there has been some systemic approach in this area and I think that, for all these reasons, it is necessary to open up and allow for a debate in the National Assembly. After all, the National Assembly will decide. And just for the end. If things are going as fast as you set them up, we can expect the President of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia to be one of the deleted or those officers of the Yugoslav People's Army who were until the independence and even after the independence of members of the Yugoslav People's Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u310	I'm guessing there's no more applications, so we're moving on to a decision. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members voted for 32 to 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and European affairs, mag. Mitje Gaspari to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u311	Thank you very much. This issue was also related to today's treatment of certain laws as well as to the following point, which discusses amendments to the Slovenian Development and Export Bank Act. In fact, the Government has decided that a type of support will be given to both the Slovenian banking sector and companies indirectly through various allocations to certain applications, tenders and the like. Therefore, among other things, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank will divide and support both the economy and the banks on a certain basis, according to some criteria. This creates the possibility that, or not only the possibility of the bank implementing parallel measures, as some other institutions do, but with one deviation alone, the Minister of Finance's response was very clear to me; but because I think the consequences of this response can be frightening, I propose a debate and an appropriate solution to this situation. Indeed, there is no guarantee of control over the use of these public funds that the banks will allocate and distribute in one way or another. If the Slovenian Enterprise Fund is committed to reporting both to the Government and not least to Parliament, if the Technology Agency of Slovenia shares this with any other public institution or agency, it is not for the last time to report to Parliament or to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission after the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. JAPTI and many others - all of them. In the area of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, where new powers are granted to the Bank and new tasks become "bypass", where control is subject to a virtually one minister, as five members of the supervisory board of the Bank's seven members propose a minister responsible for development and there is no control over these instruments. Therefore, I propose that we discuss this response, which gives rise to some possibility of misuse of public finances without proper supervision, and that in some way we also agree on solutions that will allow for control. The Commission for the supervision of public finances, parliamentary supervision, is also responsible for overseeing the executive branch of authorities and its institutions. In this case, there is an exception that we will consciously allow despite the warnings I am giving here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour of the Members and Members, 32 against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Majde Širca Ravnikar to the question of Mr Jerovška's delegation regarding the identification of institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the public institution RTV Slovenia. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The autonomy of the media, the autonomy of editors in managing editorial and journalistic policies is a value that must not be limited. But we know that there has been a desant on this autonomy, that it has been done by government and government parties, and that journalists and media are under extreme pressure. It is intended that the public institution of RTV becomes a state institution, a state media and we must resist and be concerned. This has also been confirmed in recent events by the association of journalists and other mermaids. Look, Vigel's entry into the Studio show at 17 is just an external sign of this arrogance and these pressures on journalists and editors when they were told that future candidates at European elections by ruling parties can always come to the shows that they must have a lot of programming time and this is something unheard of. All of you, colleagues and colleagues, all of you who took the lead before the elections, have guaranteed and sworn that the important value is the independence of the media, the freedom of the public word, the independence of the journalists and who today will vote against this important value, which is threatened and already launched by the rulings, who will vote against the debate, will demonstrate duality. That one will be an absolute man who is double-faced, hypocritical. I am counting on quite a few of them among Members who are such as to take a peaceful view of attacks or pressure on media houses, on public institutions, on responsibility, on the ability of editors to independently manage broadcasts and pressure on the autonomous behaviour of journalists - I think that this responsibility is at least in the work of Members also from coalition parties, despite the fact that the Minister's party and other parties are acting in the same way as we are to open this debate and put an end to this important debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Puksich? [[...]] Check-in is on. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u315	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. For the first time, I joined the National Assembly as a radio student journalist over a decade ago, and I also had some editorial experience on this same medium and some other journalistic experience, so I listened carefully to my colleague Jerovsk's question as well as the minister's reply. Perhaps I could even agree that a debate on the topic of national RTV is necessary. Of course, my vision is completely different from my colleague Jerovska, although I do not know what his journalistic experience or other media experience is, I do not mean to expose mine here in any way. I just wanted to introduce to you my voice as to how I make my decision and what makes me feel the way I do. I think the opportunity for a debate on the subject you're interested in will be passed anyway. I think that the Committee on Culture has already voted on a decision in which I would like to take note of the situation on RTV at the plenary session, so that the possibilities for dealing with such and other opinions will certainly be here. I do not see any need for one such ideologically defined proposal as this one here to be voted on. I believe that this committee has done it more in a balanced manner, so that I cannot support this proposal right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u316	Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support this proposal for a discussion by my colleague, Josef Jerovsk, for a simple reason, because if I don't like something, then I don't like it and I don't want to be two-faced and indisposed. Of course, this is very difficult in politics. Unfortunately, many have been prepared after a few hours or days to "put your pants down" and turn to the other side; but what we want is, unfortunately, many of them are also in these kinds. But it is sadder that there is also that some - you know, we hang out in one way or another, with coffee, here or there, and after four terms of work in the National Assembly - I have a lot of experience and a lot of friends with coffee and chat about these or those events. Well, and also from the journalistic species come information to pressure them to "put their pants down", and some are very opposed, but some unfortunately do not have such a strong spine. So the term "desant to journalism" is actually the real term. And it would be very good to hold this debate in the National Assembly precisely because of the independence of the media. Independent media - actually it's nothing, it's a floscule. It's about independent journalists, because independent journalists are the ones who create independent media. I recall that in the previous mandate, there were also many questions sent by the opposition in the media. Of course it's not today. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u318	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u319	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, Mr Vice President! I will, of course, vote against my colleague Jerovska's proposal. For a simple reason, because I find it perverse that such a proposal comes from the kind of party that, in the last four years, led the previous government, prepared for the first time in the history of this country's 574 journalists to sign a petition on political pressures, on cleansing. I myself have been a journalist for almost two decades and there have been no such tortures of journalists as experienced in the previous term. In addition, I would like to remind you of your freebies, who suddenly began to come out and shut down with your defeat at the elections. Let's not pretend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u320	Check-in is on. Mr. Ivan Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u321	Thank you very much. I had no intention of discussing this, but I can discuss the debate, and I applied. [[..]] I will explain my voice that I would be happy to support the proposal to discuss this, because what is now being explained by the MPs, about this petition, which 90% or more of the journalists didn't even know what they were signing, and this shows in particular now - Madam, you probably are thinking this - they didn't even know what they were signing. And that now they still see that the government of John Janša exerted any pressure on journalists, that is more than demagogic thinking and debate. There have never been any such debates in the previous term, "Dear Tone, dear Borut". These pressures, which have also been put by Mr Shrote, Mr Pahor, on the press sphere. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, this was not the case in the previous term. I expect that this too will not be the case in this mandate, unfortunately this is not the case, so it is right to discuss this in order to make public arguments available and to see who is right. Perhaps a journalist or a journalist will be able to discuss or give an opinion on matters that have given an opinion in the past, but they did not even know what they were aware of because they were misled on your initiative or at your initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u322	Mr. Magg has the word. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Vice President. Look, I happened to listen to that show when I drove home nicely to Brezica, and I think that this debate, which I will - by the way - support, is necessary to prevent such a pattern of authority, such arrogance and indifference from actually happening in the future. In fact, the Studio show was at 17, where two of the experts discussed a topic, it doesn't matter which topic, and it affected one of the important creators of the present power, and it used this power, the profession in the show, and began to express their opinion there, and so on and so on, they let it into the program, and so on and so on, those two gentlemen who sat there also slandered it. One of these seemed extremely unacceptable and left the matter behind. I think that a debate condemning such behaviour and such abuse of power is necessary. This is, simply put, unacceptable and such a pattern of behavior also worth all criticisms. And that is what this debate is about, which is also dedicated to fellow Member Joseph. I can only imagine what it would be like to do that in the previous term. How to nail him to the cross, not in the Slovenian space - in the European area, through these carriers, which are very close, since they were, last but not least, staffed throughout the entire period in these spheres of public information. So I believe that there is finally a need for some pure wine here too, so this debate can contribute a great deal to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Re-application is underway. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u325	Respectable. I'm not that "Andrey of Styria," like some people here used to say. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] Me, the other Andrei. [[...]] I will vote against the debate on the media. The fear was expressed that the current government would subject itself to media space through legislative changes. Fear is always justified in every regime, in every period. Trials are always and everywhere. The proposer speaks of a sophisticated way to bring political loyal people into the office. What else, gentlemen, did you do in your previous term?Oh, my God! You enacted a law that directly opened the door to politics. You have adopted an arrangement whereby the parliamentary majority, this said government, can direct key people in the holy public media. You've taken a direct route, and you're talking about sophisticated ways. It was also mentioned in 1990 and earlier, during the period of political change. I was a member of the Demos presidency myself. At that time, we clearly and figuratively said that we would not allow the political subjugation of the media. Such a law, proposed by Mr Grims, would not be given a green light, nor within Demos, since it directly opens the way to politics. And I hope that we will also eliminate this anomaly at the expense of what we concluded in Demos in 1990: politically independent media.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u326	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I didn't intend to sign up for the debate and I'd be happy to vote against it. This is because there are certain standards on the division of power in the country. One of these standards or principles is that the media are independent. Secondly, politics must respect and cherish this independence for its own good. As a result, the coalition will soon correct the wrong and "goebbel" media law, which was passed in the previous term. For the first reason, if you want to debate, then you have to ask the person who has jurisdiction, and I will not say that he has made the right or wrong decision, but the one who has the authority to invite a certain person to the debate in a particular medium, which is the editor. The editor shall be the one or the manager of the show if he or she has these powers by the editor who decides to do so. However, because politics has no pressure on the media, there is nothing to talk to editors who are independent, unfortunately we do not have this option either. That is why this debate is irrelevant and is once again an attempt at some cheap demagogies, this time in the media field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u329	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the proposal for a debate because I believe that yesterday the Minister has answered the question correctly. But I have to say that this is a really wrong world when the House of Andrew of Styria reads to us the Levites who also turned up on the show and didn't have that much. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] To present himself with courage, but he did not do so until later. Mr. Ivo Weighl introduced himself as soon as he heard from him. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Sir, when you spoke, we smiled very much, but we let you speak, Mr. Visjak. You speak mainly at these meetings, and let someone else tell you something. It's my first time today, and you've heard from me 30 times. I think someone else is deceiving you. Who's put pressure on anyone is best known by the press themselves. You can teach them, you can announce here today, whatever you want, who was forced to sign something and who wasn't. Dozens of journalists left the newspaper Delo and sought work elsewhere because their work was disabled when your government allowed direct influence on editorial policy in this newspaper. Dozens of journalists also left television because they could no longer work under such conditions. And that. You're saying no one's ever affected anything. I was personally the victim of being invited to the Turnout at two o'clock in the afternoon, and one of the ministers was grumbling that he did not want to face the MP directly, which they can confirm and confirmed to me by the press, and at six o'clock I was kindly invited to give up, and only the minister participated in the show. I don't know, the press told me. And today it's an extreme exercise to talk about how ideal you were.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Applications for the debate are under way. However, I warn you, we are still in the process of explaining our voices. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u331	Thank you very much. I have not paid particular attention to this issue myself, but you have convinced me that I absolutely must vote in favour of Mr Jerovsk's proposal. Why? Because of the criticism of the law that was passed not only in the National Assembly but also in the referendum, it is irresponsible. Secondly, because I refuse to refer to a petition and 570 journalists who claimed that the government pressured them and the government has no share in the media, except for a few small ones in the Primorski News. So they lied. That is also why I reject the matter because today you are referring to some pre-election freemen who are supposed to be "kobayagi" ours. [[A laugh in the hall.]] And I'm forced to accept yours every day, where there's not one, but there's a whole series of them and put them in a basket. And you're reading one. Also because Mag was taken over, as you know, by the owners, we know whose, we know who controls it. And also because the Magu was fired not only by the press, but also by the forces that we are in the clear. That is why today Mag has become what he is, or is on his way to becoming an accessory to Del. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u332	Mrs. Mag has a word. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u333	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not support the proposal to discuss the response of Minister Majda Shirca to the question put by the Member States. However, I find the most perverse in addition to all other things to be further condemned by all those who will not support this proposal, but there will be such a qualification of the conduct of the Group of Members, whose Head of the Group has addressed to the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth the request for an urgent meeting specifically on this subject. So, regardless of what we will accept today, whether this debate will be held or not, it is expected, according to the business arrangements, that the urgent meeting will be convened; as the meeting on any other subject has been convened, and then there is a talk of how this government does not deal with the crisis, but deals with all other matters. I am such a way of regulating public matters, where attention is diverted from those which are the subject of this time of debate in the National Assembly and are demonized by those who hope to think otherwise, such a way of debate I reject and without fear or shame I will vote against this initiative because I cannot condemn something that I do not know how it has taken place, and for which I do not know who has invited whom. At least we should know that before we refer to the fact that we on average condemn journalists as unfreedom, untrustworthy, as political pressure is being exerted. There's got to be evidence for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u334	Check-in is on. Mr. Damian Perne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u335	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Unlike the others, I'll really explain my voice. Given that you want to discuss it, you have already done it here today, so I think that further discussion is unnecessary and I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u337	Thank you so much for saying that. About 14 days ago, I drove to Ljubljana when there was 202 votes in Val for the most popular person from that selection. I think that there was also a very well-known Member of Breda's vote for one of the people who was behind her. But this wasn't about intervention in the media, but it was about voting, as usual. In this case, we are talking about one particular case. It is quite clear from the video clips and from the magnetogram that a member joined Studio at 17 at his own request to intervene in editorial work and also exerted pressure on the journalist. And one of the participants, who was also a journalist, made it very clear that he had not experienced such a thing since he was in Croatia, Tudjman. He just stepped out of the show. In short, a journalist, a journalist, or a journalist from a neighbouring country, estimated that in this case it was an exclusive intervention in the media, in the independence of the media, and that something had happened that was not feasible in some normal democratic society. One of the press associations reacted and condemned this intervention. I don't think there's absolutely no need for any diversion. There has been an incident and I think it is right to hold such a debate on the Minister's answer to the question as well as to convene meetings of the Committee on Culture. There are no problems, no exclusive issues, but I think such matters need to be started if there is somewhere in the National Assembly to definitely discuss, especially on the basis of the bad experiences from the past that you have best written in those written "Dear Borut, Dear Tone" and some other Tone and others. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u338	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Can we move on to a decision? Re-application, please. Procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u339	Mr Vice-President, I have waited until the end of the discussion, and I expected you to recall whether you would even respond very strongly to the outrageous insult of Slovenian citizens, voters, and to the violation of the constitutional right to a referendum and to the referendum's expression of the will of people. It was said here that the law that was confirmed at the referendum "goebbel" and you did not respond to this insult, this outrageous matter. Slovenians are not Nazis to vote for Nazi laws. And here was this claim that the Slovenians were Nazis. Please warn the Member who has reacted so inappropriately, spoke and may be very seriously reminded. Perhaps it would be appropriate for a young Member to realize that no offense is possible at the expense of the Slovenians, perhaps to remove him from the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u340	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There were 73 votes in favour and 29 in favour against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mags. Milan Martin Cvikle and Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič asked Dr. Vinko Gorenak about the further use of the Falcon 2000 EX after the termination of the lease. On behalf of the Group of Members, Dr Gorenak. Anyone else? I'm gonna push it so something doesn't go wrong again. You have the floor, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u341	Thank you very much. In the SDS Group of Members, of course, we propose that we discuss my issue yesterday concerning Falcone. There are two reasons for this, secondly a lack of response, which I will justify, the Secretary-General, and of course all the developments since 2001 in this regard. Let me remind you briefly that the then government has, of course, decided to buy a Falcon 900 EX plane, and when data has come out to the public about how much this aircraft will cost, the question has, of course, arisen, or disguised, about how the government has done as well as those planes that are chasing the wheel. By the way, what was she doing? She said, the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj at the time said that the plane cost fifty-five million dollars, in fact it cost twenty-four million dollars with tax. Let me just remind you that Adria Airways, you can take a look at this website, bought last year's plane, with which you've probably already driven many, sixty-seaters, at the same price. So for fifty million dollars, you can check it out. Of course, there continued to be disguised as to how we would transport potential wounded, up to the fact that the government had decided that it would be necessary to buy a cheaper aircraft and bought a plane for seven hundred and twenty million euros, with a tax of thirty-five, named falcon 2000 EX, which is now also the owner of Slovenia. Of course, the journalists did their part, and the government decided: We will sell the plane or rent the plane. The decision has fallen: the plane is going for rent. The aircraft was leased for $125,000. This means that it was leased for an extremely low price. In fact, the government of Janez Janša has been blocked for four years by any procedure to do anything about this aircraft because the aircraft was rented. And whatever - here the Secretary-General did not meet my expectations because he claimed that he could do something about it. What if the plane was leased? Of course, the Government, the current government, has accepted a waiver in accordance with a contract signed at the time of the government before the government of Janez Janša that this aircraft will have to be given and, or decided what to do with it. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Let me also convince you of this debate because the Secretary-General yesterday, many of you were not in the Chamber, claimed that on 8 December 2008 Janša was the government. On last day, I was appointed Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government. That means he made a grave mistake. But I get it. He's probably very busy. That's what the data was. In fact, the information he provided was not accurate. Let us give him a chance to prepare himself thoroughly, to at least look at when he took up his job, and to at least look at who the Members are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. The explanation of vote is still in its own name. Mr. Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u345	I will support the debate on this issue. There's been some kind of mistake on this plane. One bigger than the other. At a time when the government is talking about how to save money and where to save money, and when the Secretary-General of the Government is writing instructions that two should get in the car instead of one, there is this plane somewhere, we don't even know where, we're paying the garage rent for it, not the small rent, it's said that the taxpayers are being wasted. The time to assess what, how and how to establish the use of this aircraft was sufficient - more than three months - and any responsible government would be looking for an appropriate solution at that time. This solution that we now have is the worst of all available solutions. The aircraft stands, there is no effect on it, we pay a high rent for where it stands, on the other hand, we pay flight costs for other aircraft and we play with austerity measures, which all together mean very little compared to what we throw out of the window every day, when we do not put this basic asset at our disposal. That is why this debate on this issue is necessary. It is right to help the Government in this debate and to give it some direction, what to do, because obviously there is no idea in this enormous area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u346	We're moving on to decision-making. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mir Petk, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, to the question of Mr Mir Petk's question on violations of the law on public procurement. On behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope that I will not go too far into the excessive mood of the coalition Members and I would like to persuade them to support this proposal, however. What will we eventually miss if we open this debate at the next meeting? Construction of motorways in Slovenia is twice as expensive as in the European Union. In the 15th, in the old EU countries, it costs a mile of highway 6.8 million euros, and in Slovenia it is 12.5 million euros. Of course, this is not just because of the configuration or complexity of the terrain. Some performers were simply privileged, some performers who build roads in Slovenia. Two, three, four performers have a simple monopoly in this area. They do bad work, they do bad work, they do bad jobs. Let's just remember the Golovec tunnel, just remember the Shentvid tunnel and stuff. Therefore, our view is that it is imperative to amend the Public Procurement Act, where it is necessary to specify the conditions for the inclusion of so-called bad operators, incorrect operators on the so-called blacklist, as some Western countries also know. With this so-called blacklist, we would eliminate the bad performers. In this way, we would save government money or tax money or make more highways than we do now. Surely there are greater opportunities for some savings than with the measures proposed by the Slovenian government, when in some ways it extinguishes without water or "sprika" where it does not burn at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. 71 Members and Members voted for 28 to 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Pukšič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to the question of Mr Franz Pukšić's question on the number of places of entry in higher education and universities with regard to the relationship between science and technology and social science. On behalf of the delegation? [[A laugh in the hall.]] First thing I had to do was ask if there was gonna be anything wrong. I ask you another time, on my behalf? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that it is also of paramount importance for the further development of Slovenia, which will be the ratio of enrolment to universities and higher education programmes between science and technology and socio-educational programmes in the future. During the economic crisis, it appears that the Slovenian economy is far behind the global economy in terms of technological development, as our economy is under-programmed with high added value. The previous government and Minister Zupan introduced positive movements in this area, i.e. in the area of the relationship of entry between science and technology and social programmes, as acknowledged yesterday by Minister Gregor Golobič. Therefore, I think it is important that we discuss this subject also because yesterday's lecturer, Prof. Roman Jerala, before the meeting of the National Assembly, said himself that science and technology in the media are significantly worse represented, significantly less space than some other areas. By doing this public debate, we would have students and students at universities before April. [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in colleges and universities also updated and gave a positive signal on this topic. [[...]] It's not a big political issue, but it's another one. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u350	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bogdan Barovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to Mr Bogdan Barovic's question on the implementation of the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the addition to the lowest pensions. On behalf of the delegation? Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dr. Lightman's response was flawed, but at the same time I am concerned about some of the statements made by government representatives in the media, so I must say on behalf of the Group of Members: we will support this proposal, this is probably expected. In order to refresh your memory, I would remind you that the former government, the DeSUS Group, reached the middle of last year, that the Government has accepted their proposal, and that we have brought into the National Assembly a law with which we granted an allowance of EUR 100 to the pensioner. The parties of the opposition at the time declared this a waste of money, a pre-election candy, an election vote. A representative of the Pension Organisation, Mrs Mateja Kožuh Novak, former SD Member, also spoke, arguing that this was not the right way to solve this problem. But there's still some real fact, whatever we called it, the pensioners got that money, whether they called it candy or whatever. In short, they got that money. In the time before the elections, there were various promises, and I will not mention them much today, unless time permits me, but the harsh reality occurred in the time after the election victory, after the elections, when the coalition contract had to be drawn up and in the coalition contract, there was little fighting left of it. There's 300 euros left. Many people coming to me were already disappointed; how is it possible that this could have happened, but as a member of the opposition party I did not have an explanation for them. However, it must be said that something else happened just before the plantation. Two days before the signing of the coalition agreement, a sentence was inserted where it reads "in accordance with the financial possibilities of the country." Of course, many understood, but they will. And that, as it turns out, will not be. In fact, Dr. Svetlik's answer convinces me that this will not happen. It would not be right to bring 200 thousand pensioners or 100,000, whatever methodology you take, around - domestically, according to Styria's words. Let's have a debate, we'll support it, and let's tell them, nothing more than when it's going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u352	Thank you. We're moving to [[...]] An explanation of the voice in its own name, if that really makes any sense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u353	Thank you very much. I'm asking you not to be nervous. Let's just say, let's just tell people when this is going to be in the debate. And nothing else! But since I can see what the reaction is on the other side, let me mention the following. In the time before the elections, this was the month of September, I met many Members in my area. We all met with voters. The president of one of the coalition parties, I'm talking about President Dessus, he talked a lot there, he made a lot of promises, people understood that there would be a thousand euros. But he didn't say that, he denied it, he said he said that on parole. However, it was accepted by ovations, clapping, fanfare, and they called it your eminence, Mr. Erjavec. What happened in half an hour? They paid for the goulash. I believe that this has also changed the political image of this House, so gentlemen, it is right to support this, but above all I ask and call on Members of the DeSUS to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u354	We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. The vote was taken by 70 Members and Members, 29 to 39, [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday, 4 March at 10 a.m. Good night.
