ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Willi Rezman, Marijan Pojbič from 15:00 on, Joško Godec, Milan Gumzar from 17:00 on, Rado Likar from 13:00 on, Alojz Potočnik, Darko Meni from 18:00 on. I welcome everyone. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on classified information, following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u2	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Under the current legislation, in Slovenia the area of security checks and permits for access to classified data is highly dispersed and irrational. The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and Sova have powers in this area. Each for his staff, the Ministry of the Interior and for the rest of the state administration. Therefore, there are two bodies in the MNZ system, one in the administrative department, the other in the police carrying out similar tasks only for different entities. The Government therefore amends the existing regime by means of a proposed law amending the law on classified data, whereby two authorities are competent within the same department for the authorisation of access to classified information. The amendment to Article 22 of the Law therefore merely means a reduction in the number of authorities responsible for granting access to classified information. The powers of the Police are transferred to the Ministry, which is already in addition to the Police, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of Defence, one of the authorities carrying out these tasks. The project to rationalise the work areas of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police is aimed at improving, rationalising and optimising individual work processes. Within the Ministry's administrative department, all authorisation data will be concentrated, according to the current dominant authority, on all procedures for granting access to classified information. Within the secretariat, a new Secret Data Service will be established by abolishing the existing data sector in the Police Directorate and other security tasks. In the area of confidential information management, both the Ministry's secret data sector and the Data Protection Centre in the Police have proposed that the area of personal and industrial security be fully transferred from the Police to the Ministry of the Interior. The evidence expressed by the opposition on the committee responsible to obtain new powers to facilitate the policy's access to sensitive data that can be misused and similar is unrealistic, malicious and misleading. I reiterate that, within the framework of the MNZ, the Secret Data Sector has been operating for a number of years, which conducts security checks for most of the national resources. In addition to the tasks already performed by the Ministry's Secret Information Branch, the Secret Information Service will also carry out the tasks of issuing security permits to organisations to which classified information is transmitted for the purpose of carrying out the authority's orders, except for defence contracts, orders related to the work of the Owé and access licences to persons employed in these organisations. The proposer considers that the present regulation makes it possible to carry out tasks in a rational and qualitative manner, and also represents the first step towards a more transparent and less diversified functioning of the authorities in this area in the Republic of Slovenia, and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopts the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Vinko Gorenak to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered this law at its 12th meeting, on 1 December 2009. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 43rd meeting, 9.11.2009, that this law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. However, the proposal was tabled for consideration by the SDS Group's amendments to the home working body of 25.11.2009. We invited the Ministry of Justice, the Office of the Government for the Protection of Secret Data and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to the meeting of the Committee. Applicants or State Secretary of Mag. Klemenčič said about what the minister had just said. The Legal and Legislative Service had no comments. The Commission of the Council of State supports the law. In the debate, the coalition supported the bill, and we opposed it in the opposition. I'll explain it a little bit more later. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1, so the two amendments to Articles 2 and 3 became irrelevant. The Committee has thus drawn up a proposal for a law as a whole, which is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Secret Data Act, which was adopted in 2001, provided that the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency were responsible for granting a person's access to classified information. Slovenia, which was at the threshold of entry into the European Union and NATO, had to comply with the standards of both organisations. As a result of Slovenia's involvement in these two links, there has also been an increase in the need for additional security checks, as well as in the number of persons who needed appropriate permits due to the nature of the work. On the basis of these facts, the Government then decided that the most prudent solution would be that the police, as a body within the Ministry of the Interior, would be responsible for the security verification and authorisation. Such a decision was taken by the National Assembly in 2003. In February this year, the government adopted a decision that individual ministries and government services should prepare a picture of the actual situation of employees and, on the basis of this, identify which services should be reorganised in order to ensure that services are as rational as possible and should not affect the quality of the tasks. The Ministry of Internal Affairs has therefore found that, by setting up unit units at the Ministry of the Interior, which would now work two units, one at the Ministry of Interior and the other at the police, they could rationalise and optimize the work. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the Government's efforts to bring together the tasks, that is, the services that are scattered across individual ministries, and in this way optimise the work, but of course the quality of the tasks performed must not be affected by this account. In particular, not in such a sensitive area where security checks also interfere with human rights. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the Minister is passing enough hearing to protect human rights, which she has already repeatedly expressed directly, and will deal with this area properly with her colleagues, because we do not believe in the conspiracy theory that some individuals from the opposition are warning against, which has already been pointed out at the meeting of the mother's working body. Given that, at the time of the adoption of the basic law in 2001, the powers to grant access to classified information were conferred on the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, we have no reason to oppose this proposal this time. We will support this bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We're not going to support this marriage. This law is simply a division of the electoral booty of the Liberal Democracy, which will last for three years and several months. Today we have the following situation: the Office of the Government, the supervisory organisation, the Ministry of Defence checks on itself or their security service, the Sova checks on itself, the police check on themselves, the Ministry of Interior and other state authorities. It's three workers at the police station. With this law, the Minister brings three employees from the Police to the Ministry. So what's the change? Three won't sit in the left but in the right corner. That's a change of law. What is the content of this law? There's one more thing to say. If it were true that this was not about politics and maliciousness in all this matter, the Minister would transfer it to Mr Zaberl, where it is today, the Police Directorate and other security tasks. No, no, no. The Minister shall transmit this to the General Secretariat, directly to her. Who's in charge of the General Secretariat? Visible LDS representatives and no one else. So where does this go? So why are we doing this? Because we want to get to the data. Nothing else. It's foreign. The government has not found any country in Europe where that would be. Not one. It lists Belgium, states the Czech Republic, mentions Poland. There's no comparable model. Nowhere. He's gone. If the government wanted to save something, it would have acted on Belgium, the Czech Republic and Poland and would have done otherwise. Single to one security authority. That would be rationalization. Not transfer three police officers to the Ministry. It's nothing. What are we saving? Nothing. If we add to the 71 or some of the raised wages in the government yesterday, which, of course, I don't object to, because I know what this is about, because I understand what this is about because they are losing other ratings. We did the same in the past about these things, then we see that we are not saving absolutely nothing. But we get up to 200, 300 security checks a year, and we are talking together about about 1,600 people, for example, and we have insight into the following data: their finances, their credits, their deposits, their relatives and their data, their diseases, their movements, properties, foreign residences, contacts with foreign security authorities and similar matters. Oh, that's something! And that's what's important, that's what Liberal Democracy needs, that's what Liberal Democracy wants. And with the law, she'll get it. But it's part of the electoral booty and nothing else. If we took a closer look at the matter. Who, though, are the persons checked by the police today? He checks his people who work in such areas so that he can grant them access to data. He's checking out secret police officers. He's checking out secret police associates. Who are they, secret police associates? Isn't that something like 18 years ago that we said that it was necessary to reveal who the secret associates of the former State Security Service were? And yet the then president of the government intervened and said, and we're not going to do that. He had so much wisdom because he knew precisely that this would reveal a great deal and make it impossible for the owl to function. The police are checking on these people today, too. No, today we will submit this to the politicians or you will submit to the politicians. And there's nothing else about this marriage. It's very similar to the law we're going to be considering next year. Of course, there will be much more to be said about that law, which is the law on police, where very similar matters are involved. Because it's pure politics, purely intentional gathering. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or moving this service to the minister, this law is in no way a sign of support. [[...]] And we won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your words, Mr President-in-Office and Honourable Minister-in-Office, Dear Fellows and Fellows! The main solutions to the law state that changes only bring about the rationalisation of work in the area of the authorisation of access to classified information in the Ministry of the Interior. At the Ministry of the Interior, it is noted that in the field of the protection of classified information, according to existing arrangements, this is the responsibility of the two authorities which grant access to classified information, which is not optimal and rational. The area that has probably been divided between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police for a reason so far is now about to be unified or rationalised. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we all smell more like a concentration of certain powers, and we are not sure that this is as well-intentioned as it appears. We don't see a good reason why, unlike the army and the Owl, these powers are taken away from the police. In fact, we are concerned that the transfer of power means the possibility of politicizing data. At this meeting we have already discussed the Law on Electronic Communications, where we have had similar concerns and doubts about well-meaningness when reading the articles. The proposed law will not be supported by the Slovenian People's Party referred to in the Parliamentary Group unless it may be amended by amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u12	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good morning and good morning all together! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on amendments to the Secret Data Act. The draft law on amendments to the Secret Data Act will be unanimously supported by Members of the DeSUS Group. While this is a sensitive area of data protection and confidentiality, changes do not constitute major substantive interventions, nor do they interfere with the police's work area to the extent that they can say that this proposal radically creates confidence in this institution. It is a matter of uniting and rationalising the way the work is done, namely, that the competence to issue special permits on the basis of which persons can access classified data is concentrated at the Ministry of the Interior and not in both organisations within the bodies of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police. Members of the DeSUS estimate that the proposed solution is prudent, rational and written in the light of "all in one place". The work area of the Ministry of the Interior includes the tasks and areas of public security and police, administrative internal affairs and migration, including the tasks of the police. In addition to the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the police are an organisationally independent body in the composition of this Ministry, but the functioning of the police is still under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, we see no reason why access to classified information should not be granted to persons who need access to classified information for the purpose of performing their functions or carrying out their duties in the Ministry of the Interior or in the Police, in one place, in the Ministry of the Interior. From this point of view, the proposal is certainly appropriate and we will support DeSUS Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u14	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we support the proposal for a law amending the Secret Data Act, which aims to rationalise work on the issue of licences at the Ministry of the Interior. At the Ministry of the Interior, it is noted that, in the field of the protection of classified data, the competence of the two authorities granting secret data access is not optimal and rational. The Ministry of the Interior therefore intends to unify the area of authorisation for access to classified information and security permits to organisations, which has so far been divided between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, and to establish a single organisational unit within the Ministry of the Interior to carry out the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to submit to the National Assembly more effective proposals for austerity measures on the possibility of merging individual services or bodies in ministries. At the same time, we also call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide an assessment of the financial implications of the proposed legislative changes, which are to be adopted for rationalisation, in the future. Otherwise, we support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Madam Minister, rare colleagues and colleagues. I am glad to hear that the marriage is predicted to be widely supported. But I am disappointed because it is pre-emptive time for me to hear so many negative thoughts and I am concerned that those who see everything wrong in life are all black, that in the past they have probably acted in harmony with their beliefs and thinking. That's what makes me think. I will present the positive aspects of this law, which certainly brings savings and rationalisation to the country. As part of the austerity package, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also undergoing amendments to the labour systematisation acts that will ensure the rationalisation of work processes. The solutions proposed represent unification, rationalisation and such a way of working to establish a single organisational unit of the Ministry of the Interior to carry out the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and of the Police with regard to the implementation of the provisions of the Secret Data Act. The adoption of the law amending the law on classified information will have no negative financial implications for the state budget. This must be emphasized and done every day in these times. Changes are being made to take account of government measures regarding the rationalisation of services, as the current regime allowing access to public data is certainly irrational and not optimal. If we look at the current situation, the four authorities are competent under the current regulation for the management of the security review and the authorisation of access to classified data, namely the Ministry of Defence, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police. In the latter two services, the tasks in the field of classified information are certainly duplicative. With a view to rationalising the work and reorganising the services of the Ministry of the Interior, the powers of the Police to grant access to classified information will be taken away from them, which will then be carried out by a special organisational unit which has been carrying out this same work in the Ministry of the Interior so far. The Special Service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is already carrying out security checks for all civil servants, except for officials of the Ministry of Defence, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency and the Police. Therefore, according to our national security system, it is reasonable and necessary that the Ministry of the Interior also perform these tasks for the police. Since we believe in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the rationalisation and greater efficiency of the state administration mean the realization of one of the fundamental tasks ahead of us, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to go to 3. Period of the day - This is a second defensively proposed bill on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons who perform economic or agricultural activities. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Merry Christmas. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Renata Brunskole's committee to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body at its 14th emergency meeting, on 11 September 2009 and at its 12th regular session, on 3 December 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made a general comment on the relationship between the proposed solutions and the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. This also applies to natural persons organised in a status form under the law governing economic societies. As a result of this lack of clarity between the two laws, it is not clear in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service which would apply to independent entrepreneurs. Its next general comment points out that entrepreneurs and agricultural economies are also subject to all European Community rules on State aid. The prohibition on the granting of unlawful State aid is also applicable to farmers, and therefore the law submitted should not be followed by the Act on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons, but should contain rules on the limitation of the guarantee according to the extent of the State aid allowed. In the following opinions, the Legislative and Legal Service also draws attention to this in the context of its comments to individual articles. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposed the proposal to the law. The Committee shall, at the proposal of the representatives of the proposer of the Magi Act. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Radovan Žerja postponed the discussion and decision on the draft law to one of his next meetings. Until then, taking into account the debate on the Committee, as well as the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed solutions should be further examined and possibly supplemented in cooperation with representatives of all parliamentary groups as well as the Ministry of Finance. This item was re-listed on the agenda of the 9th meeting of the Committee on 7 October 2009, but was postponed at the proposal of the bill-makers who were still in the position coordination phase. At its December meeting, the Committee, in the absence of a representative of the bill's proponents, continued its discussion on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee was not aware of the possible mid-term coordination of positions between law-makers and the Government or the Ministry of Finance. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision by 7 votes in favour and 6 votes against that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee also adopted an additional decision calling on the Government or the Ministry of Finance to provide within one month an analysis of the implementation of the law on guarantee schemes for legal and natural persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler of the Magi Act. Radovan Žerjav for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The measures we adopted in the National Assembly at the beginning of the economic crisis focused mainly on promoting bank credit activities and consequently improving the liquidity of businesses and maintaining the social position of employees or preserving jobs. The law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia was then adopted, which is primarily intended to improve the liquidity of the economy with a view to facilitating the acquisition of funds on the Slovenian financial market. The next step to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis was to help certain groups of natural persons with access to financial resources in the banking market in the form of State guarantees. Both laws, both the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia and the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons, release important categories of creditors: independent entrepreneurs and farmers. Independent entrepreneurs and farmers face the consequences of the financial and economic crisis as well as economic operators and natural persons. It also restricts access to funding sources and liquidity assets due to tightening credit conditions. The proposed law aims to enable the borrowing of credit to natural persons engaged in economic or agricultural activities. In view of the insurance provided by the State guarantee, banks are expected to be more inclined to lend to these two categories. The law, as has been said, has indeed been discussed twice on the Committee on Finance. The Government and, above all, the Minister of Finance have shown a certain hearing in order to adopt this law, subject to certain amendments. We agreed, agreed with Minister Križanič, that a coordination meeting between the ministries and also with the public concerned should be organised, i.e. those to whom this law was intended. Unfortunately, however, there was no interest on the part of those to whom this law was intended. And if that's not the interest, then we don't really need such a law. I therefore propose that we no longer discuss the law and simply reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In view of the fact that the bill itself, if I have understood correctly, considered it inappropriate for further consideration, it is probably not necessary to explain very precisely the reasons why the Government felt that this law was not acceptable. Maybe just a few points I'd like to draw your attention to. First of all, it is a guarantee scheme for natural persons engaged in agricultural activities who could rent a loan with a State guarantee, but not at full height. This means that the collateral secured by the borrower should nevertheless be maintained. These collaterals, however, constitute a mortgage on agricultural land, an agricultural property, which means that in a situation where the borrower would not be able to repay the loan, he would lose the basic assets to carry out his business. The second reason why the Government argued that it was against such a law was contrary to the proposed law by state aid rules, since the law did not define or specify the purpose of credits, the amount of credit, the amount of the premium, the obligation to classify the commissioners into the credit rating classes and the percentage of the State guarantee. The third reason is linked to the additional administrative burdens imposed by the law. It may not be necessary to point out, however, some of the measures already introduced by the Government in the framework of the existing agricultural policy, with some amendments. The first amendment it has prepared and implemented is a change to the rural development programme. Under these measures, natural persons engaged in an agricultural activity have the opportunity to obtain non-refundable public funds to finance new investments. The next measure is the early payment of measures in the area of limited processing opportunities and direct payments. And another measure, the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing a state aid scheme aimed at unforeseeable deterioration of the income situation for individual sectors of agricultural activity, in particular the cereals sector and the dairy sector. The government estimates that the introduction of a subsidised interest scheme in the borrowing of credit would be more appropriate instead, and this instrument is already operationalising in terms of concrete solutions that are unlikely to require an additional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u24	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, good morning. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome the basic purpose of this law, namely to fill a gap in one of the important measures to mitigate the consequences of the credit crunch and mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. It is more than clear that it is one of the main problems of the Slovenian economy, not only the Slovenian economy, but also the European and global economy, this so-called credit crunch, when companies are not even nearly able to obtain loans under comparable conditions, as they received before a year and a half or two years ago. To this end, different countries have tried to promote this credit activity through various measures. They found that one of the measures was also to expose themselves to the risks of the State and to provide guarantees or guarantees for indirect use if the borrowers could not service. In Slovenia, therefore, we passed a very late law on the guarantee scheme after a severe calvary, which was flawed. It was flawed because it did not cover one important segment. This is a segment of independent entrepreneurs as natural persons in economic law, and of course also farmers. They are also engaged in economic activity and are also faced with a credit crunch. The Government's argument in the position that independent entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs have the tools of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund is true, but there is no argument that independent entrepreneurs would not have an additional measure to mitigate the consequences of the credit crunch. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund does not provide guarantees only to independent entrepreneurs. He said guarantees were for entrepreneurs. This is also the d.o.o. and others which are in some way included in small and medium-sized enterprises by classification, as regulated by the company law. The measures taken by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund among its actions are those relating to this segment of the small and medium-sized economy, but not only to independent entrepreneurs according to their organisational form. Therefore, independent entrepreneurs are in an unequal position, as small and medium-sized enterprises can obtain a guarantee either on the basis of the measures taken by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund or on the basis of the Guarantee Scheme Act in force. But independent entrepreneurs don't. However, they can only be implemented through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and there is no additional measure for them to implement this law. I think it would be possible to improve, finalize and remedy these irregularities, which the Government has listed in its opinion, but obviously have run out of will. There was also a lack of will in those who would be entitled to this measure by farmers. I regret that they have not dealt more intensively with this possibility, which could also make it easier for a farmer to work and do business, i.e. the complexity of the financial and economic crisis. If the applicant considered that this interest was insufficient, he also gave up clearly below and suggests that this proposal be rejected. Once again, I cannot avoid the assessment that the Slovenian government's measures aimed at mitigating the consequences of the credit crunch are too late, too inadequate, too liberal and uninteresting for the economy, and allow for a number of possible manipulations. I welcome the view expressed by the Court of Auditors that it will revise these government measures in the coming year and draw attention to the usefulness and economy of these institutions. We would expect faster action, more effective action, and certainly not to be faced with such sad numbers of economic growth and investment decline if the government faced the situation more responsibly this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's not here.]] Mr Franz Jurša, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good morning to all! In the DeSUS Group, we do not support the proposal for a guarantee scheme for natural persons who carry out economic or agricultural activities - as the proposer himself withdraws the proposal - for several reasons. The first reason relates to the comments expressed by the Legal and Legislative Service in its opinion, namely that some of the solutions to the proposal are summarised in the two currently in force guarantee laws. One refers to economic operators and the other to natural persons, and we have discussed both of them a lot this year. It is also a proposal with or to existing legislation in certain segments of duplication, as well as non-compliant solutions, which we will not support by DeSUS Members. Various forms of State aid accepted by entrepreneurs as well as measures or subsidies to farmers relating to rural development and the acquisition of grants are also highlighted. Since we consider the text of this proposal to be inconsistent with the law in force and to be inconclusive, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u28	Good day to you all. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary. I will begin with one thought which I will then bring forward, which I had this morning, namely that there is a great difference between Slovenia and Europe. Europe has hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and in Slovenia we have hours from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. This implies that in abundance, abundance, plenty of laws that have been adopted over the past six months and require a lot of attention and effort, because most of them are related to the area of finance and economics and crisis resolution, we have also come to this law, which is still supported by the Slovenian National Party. After all this effort, work and respect for all Slovenes and Slovenians and their equality, we come into an absurd situation when we discuss an hour of law on the work of the mother body, which has already been removed there. But if the rules of the game are the same today and we are talking about the law today, even though the proposaler said in his introductory presentation that he suggested that we should not discuss. Sometimes it's a little awkward that we don't know what we're doing. However, at least some of this law or all of this can be pulled out. If we have assessed that it is right that the State has taken measures, i.e. the Government and the National Assembly, to promote bank credit activity and consequently improve liquidity companies, if it is right that the next step was given State guarantee to groups of natural persons, i.e. adopted the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons, it would be appropriate that we have included in all of these measures the two groups mentioned in the proposal for this Act, which is no longer up-to-date. These are independent entrepreneurs and farmers. Whether they have other options and solutions in some other form or not. And whether they want it or not. I think that Slovenia is a democratic and legal country where all people have the same rights. And then, of course, there wouldn't be such a problem, to put this law into action, to argue about this law that we're discriminatory and then even to withdraw this law, where we're already discriminatory again, because we're forcing someone into something they don't want. In the Slovenian national side, with a negative attitude towards a negative decision, we believe that this law is appropriate, we show only one thing that we want and demand equality in the preparation of further laws. When these laws are being prepared, let them not just prepare themselves for thought and haste, when we get more amendments than articles in a month, but if they are already preparing to prepare themselves qualitatively, then with less debate and greater unity we will receive them and will continue to apply and benefit those to whom the law is intended. As has already been said, in the Slovenian national side we will vote against the negative decision and thus express the will that this proposal for a guarantee scheme law, despite the fact that it has been withdrawn by the proposer, would be appropriate to notify the two groups in question within the framework of all which Slovenia is helping them in the guarantee scheme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. A nice once-in-a-lifetime greeting for everyone and the Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnareva! We've heard a lot about marriage. The previous debaters told me practically everything, but at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we would like to add some more messages and starting points to this important and necessary debate. We certainly recognise the good purpose of the proposalr and the need to solve this problem. However, because of everything that has already been said, he has not yet matured to be admitted to Parliament. Last but not least, it is withdrawn by the proposer with probably bitter feelings. Therefore, even in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia this proposal for a guarantee scheme for natural persons engaged in economic and agricultural activities is not supported, but we will do everything we can to resolve these important and necessary issues as soon as possible. However, it would certainly be bad if, for example, a guarantee scheme for natural persons engaged in agricultural activities introduced an instrument that would put those who are already in difficulty into an even more difficult and hopeless situation. The guarantee and the loan mortgage for a short or medium term bridging of the problem would eventually become unsustainable, as their basic means of production would be their valuable agricultural land, whose importance in Slovenia has only become increasingly aware in recent years, only now that we have fallen below 50% self-sustainment and when we have unfortunately built a large part of the necessary, important, best agricultural areas with activities that will not bring bad added value, and on the other hand, we have let much of the agricultural land, unfortunately, grow. But at least those that are infested are not yet lost. The right hands, of course, can restore them to the function they once had. As I have pointed out, the law has a good purpose, but it has a questionable effectiveness, so at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, at the principal level, we certainly support all efforts to overcome the crisis of both independent entrepreneurs and farmers. However, we believe that an additional guarantee scheme could lead to the duplication of instruments and also confusion and additional confusion in obtaining credit. We therefore support the solution to increase funds under existing instruments, which are guarantees with a subsidised interest rate, as this instrument has proved to be effective and there is also a great demand for it. On the other hand, we also believe that we need to focus on payment non-discipline in the area of micro and small enterprises. To many entrepreneurs, tradesmen in Slovenia today is certainly the main problem. However, the Committee on the Economy is already having a thorough debate on this subject and some possible solutions have already been opened up there. We also think it is important that the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia in this place draw attention to the area of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and that the issue of their tax burden, which is certainly too high in the long term, should be raised, and that is why we are also witnessing on the other hand the abnormally large extent of the grey economy that the state does not wish to carry out for survival. Therefore, it is not yet possible to relieve the tax burden at this time due to the public financial situation. But we need to focus on making this possible in the coming years. We think these are the key areas that we should focus our energy on. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to encourage a small economy. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u32	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that the economic, economic and financial crisis has taken over everything, of course, including farmers and independent entrepreneurs. In the actions we take, we do not forget this category of people. We do not support the proposal for a law designed to include farmers and independent entrepreneurs in the guarantee scheme in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, as the drafter of the law also points out, although the purpose of the law was good and sincere. According to our assessment and assessment of the Government, the guarantee measure for natural persons engaged in agricultural activities is not appropriate for this target group of creditors. Credits for which up to 80% are guaranteed by the State should be secured in accordance with the ordinary banking practice and the Bank of Slovenia risk insurance rules. According to experience, this means that the most common collateral for mortgages will be real estate. In the event of default of the debtor, a part of the claim would be settled by the State which would not have the basis for the write-off of the claim, while the remaining part of the claim would have been claimed by the bank by cashing the mortgage. This would get borrowers, farmers, even worse off because the bank would reach out to them with the basic means of survival. Therefore, such an instrument is not suitable for the resolution of the liquidity and financial situation at this time as well. However, we have already adopted a guarantee scheme for natural persons, where farmers as natural persons can also be found. In view of the situation in agricultural policy and the resolution of agricultural problems, it is only necessary to stress that in 2009 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a series of measures to respond to the deterioration of the economic situation in agriculture and forestry, as stated by the Secretary of State Mrs Kamnareva. With regard to assistance to entrepreneurs, it is necessary to clarify that the Government or the Ministry of the Economy is already implementing a programme of assistance to entrepreneurs, in various forms such as a guarantee for bank loans, interest rate subsidies and something else implemented by the Ministry of Economy by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and which has already been invested more than EUR 60 million this year. In the case of aid to entrepreneurs, it is a target group that is less exposed to risks due to strong investments and, on the other hand, it is particularly sensitive to fluctuations in cash flow and payment deadlines and insolvency, but is also additionally limited to the diversification of programmes and is therefore particularly vulnerable. Therefore, as a suitable measure for entrepreneurs, the Government does not consider the granting of guarantees for loans that entrepreneurs hire for investments but for the credits that entrepreneurs need to solve their liquidity problem. Therefore, given the high interest of entrepreneurs, more consideration should be given to increasing the volume of funds for these purposes. However, there are some measures that I mentioned earlier, such as payment deadlines and some others that have already been adopted by the Government, not least in the Budget Act 2010 and 2011, when we reduce these payment deadlines at the level of the State and at the level of local communities. For all of this, the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration and the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to four. Agenda item - Thirdly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. This time, I would like to limit myself to those issues of this law in my presentation, which have been repeatedly raised and sometimes misinterpreted. Amendments to the law aim to reduce the negative effects of transport on the environment and human health. The fiscal impact of this law, which has often been reflected in the debate, is merely to maintain about the same level of tax resources. The main advantage is to reduce the negative effects of the environment. We are one of the last members of the European Union to have not yet implemented environmental criteria in the case of motor vehicle taxes. The law is therefore based on three criteria, namely the amount of greenhouse gas emissions of CO2 which is the basis for the new scale, the amount of air pollutants released, in particular nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. These criteria are closely linked to the reduction of air pollution, which contributes to the risk of climate change and harms the health of the population. Slovenia has already received a second reminder from the European Commission due to increased concentrations of particulate matter in the air, which are mainly measured in cities. Approximately 44% of the population are exposed to an illicit increase in particulate matter and therefore approximately 1,700 people die early each year. These are the analyses that have been carried out and the data are reliable. In addition to the industry and the hens on solid fuels, transport is the main contributor. Therefore, the Government believes that it is essential that we change already when buying cars or other motor vehicles from choice to preference, where we place as little pollution as possible. This has certainly not so far been a key criterion in the selection of the car, not the engine. For this reason, we believe that this law is urgently needed, regardless of the fact that the purpose of filling the budget register is manifest to it, which is of course not a key element. Maybe just a government definition of the amendments tabled. With regard to the amendments proposed for third reading, the Government supports the proposal to amend the tax scales for motorcycles and bicycles with engines, which better aligns tax rates with those for passenger motor vehicles. With regard to the proposal to delete the additional rate of taxation for two-stroke engines, the Government has a neutral relationship. However, it opposes proposals to change the scale of tax rates for passenger motor vehicles. The SLS proposal undermines the meaningful relationship between petrol and diesel vehicles. However, the SDS proposal introduces a zero rate for motor vehicles with CO2 emissions below 110 grams per kilometre and significantly reduces the tax rates for other vehicles, which does not encourage significant changes in the behaviour of motor vehicle customers. Therefore, the Government proposes that you adopt the law, as it is prepared from another reading, and the supplement proposed by the Coalition Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. In this law, I can say, long-term coordination was where to find a balance between the environmental, health and economic aspects. I am pleased that we have thus satisfied the environmental, health and, at the same time, listened to the domestic economy that deals with these things in these times of crisis. At the same time, I am pleased that the Minister has listened to the initiative to deserve special treatment of combined vehicles, which are also widely used in school transport. That's how we came to a marriage that, along with the amendments, would meet all these criteria. That is why we really support the proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are increasingly wondering whether the time to increase the taxation of motor vehicles and motorcycles is indeed true at this time. At a time when all governments around the world are looking at how they will lower taxes and thus speed up sales and new economic growth, we are doing the opposite. Some countries are entrenched in such a way as to introduce direct incentives for the purchase of new vehicles, and in such a way the old ones are driven off the roads. Slovenia, however, is increasing the price of new vehicles and motorcycles with a significant increase in taxation. By the fact that everyone here is also well aware that many Slovenian companies are linked to the fate of Europe or the world automotive industry. The main objective of this proposal is to implement the Green Policy. The price that all of us, especially our craftsmen, will pay for excessive pollution of the environment is already too high. However, because of the situation at the second, equally important, it might be worth considering whether the application of those provisions relating to the new tax rate system would only make sense to postpone it for a few months, perhaps for a year. Would it not be possible for the Government to come into procedure with some other laws if it wanted to follow this green direction? Is the proposed tax really ecologically fair? Is he really taxing the biggest contaminants? In the Slovenian People's Party, we don't think so. We are afraid that such a law will unfortunately achieve the opposite effect that the proposaler expects and anticipates. Slovenia will become a landfill or dump site of used vehicles. In the SLS Group, we have prepared an amendment to correct the ratio of progressive taxation by type of fuel and release. If this amendment and some amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group are adopted, we will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party, otherwise the law of our final support will not be involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Even this time a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! The Republic of Slovenia introduced a tax on motor vehicles in 1999 for the first time registered vehicles in Slovenia as well as for the transport of used vehicles, provided that VAT is not charged. In the context of the Green Tax Reform, the Government has drafted the text of a proposal for a new new basic legislation on taxation on motor vehicles, which amends the way new vehicles are taxed, depending on their ecological acceptability. Members of the DeSUS believe that motor vehicles should also be taxed and their degree of environmental pollution adjusted. Thus, instead of progressive taxation based on engine capacity, different tax rates are proposed in relation to carbon dioxide emissions. The cars we buy the most in Slovenia, with a discharge of between 150 and 200 grams per kilometer, will be about as taxed as before. However, visible changes will be observed in the taxation of those vehicles belonging to the group of vehicles most burdensome to the environment. There will also be a new tax on motorcycles or bike engines that have not yet been used. Members of the DeSUS clearly agree with this, because we believe that there is no difference or difference in the protection of the environment. However, it is a laudable foundation of the Labour Act, which defines measures to prevent tax evasion, in particular tax evasion. After the new tax administration will have the opportunity to verify the value of an individual vehicle, which will certainly contribute to the reduction of tax evasion. We support the proposed text by DeSUS Members in their efforts to protect and preserve a healthy living environment with a view to reducing tax evasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say hello to everyone again, Madam Secretary! Of course, it would have been really nice if, as explained by the secretary, it had been said that by this law, and again among the lines, we corresponded to Europe, but more to ourselves that we would not pollute so much and that we would have helped by defining this law. Well, that's not how it is, I won't think of it, but I'm gonna prove it if he's only gonna allow me this time of five minutes, and I'm gonna do the amendments later. If we first look at Article 4 and the scale, in the last draft of the law, on this scale we see that, in grams of a transported kilometer from 110 onwards, there is gasoline, liquid petroleum gas, lower tax rates than diesel fuel. Proof: passenger car Mercedes, petrol engine has 163 grams of discharge and the same car with the same diesel engine 140. This is just one of the huge cars that produces less CO2 for 30 grams of diesel fuel. The scale is reversed: diesel fuel has a more expensive tax. In the following paragraph, if the motor vehicle referred to in the preceding paragraph uses any other engine, electrical, combination of different engines, hybrid, a service engine scale shall be taken into account. Whether this is right or wrong, judge for yourself because we feel that it is a shame to speak at all. If someone makes an effort, you're cutting the car itself to produce less CO2, you have to go even to Italy, you have to install gas, and now you're going to pay for gas - and I'm sure now it's going to be legalized that this country will raise the price of gas overnight - like this! - at the price of gas. This is not a concern for the clean environment and CO2, but it is a great concern for me to charge the state budget. And I don't give a shit about CO2! Next. In this last proposal, an even higher tax rate is proposed in Article 4 for motor vehicles referred to in paragraph 4 with the rate of release of Euro-4 than in the first reading. Now we have more than two percentage points than at first reading. Then we have in this last proposal for diesel-fuelled motor vehicles with a particle release greater than 0.005 grams, where in the last proposal one percentage point is higher than in the law in the first reading. One more proof that they think - because the Members will not read it - we're going to get a little bit of tax here. You can go see for yourself. I went to look very carefully. There's a lot more I could say. The example of separation in two-stroke engines, I'm talking about tricycles, quadricycles, the case for two-stroke internal combustion vehicles, increases the tax rate set out in paragraph 13 by 3%. It's in the bill. The truth is that this paragraph has no basis in any regulation, no directive, no European law, is a reflection of the populism of two-stroke engines, which is still not true. This is a truth not invented by the Slovenian National Party or Barovic, but is a truth known by technical experts. For me, this law is the deception of the Slovenian people, it is the accumulation and increase of taxes without any desire to improve the environment, but I think I have proved very clearly and clearly with the law itself and with the articles of the law that this is the case. The Slovenian national party will never support citizens and citizens, and we will never oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Ambassadors [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u44	Mr. Visjak, there's something I'd like to say, but I'm sure it'll be later. Your Honor! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we decided to uphold the law. And that's what we've been defending since the beginning of the marriage. We believe that an appropriate balance should be found between the fiscal needs of the country and the increase in taxes, which is the basic principle of this law, i.e. environmentally friendly, less harmful transport in that country. The fact is that this law will contribute to the relief or less burden on those cars, those vehicles that will lower CO2 and less particulate matter and nitrogen emissions into the atmosphere. These are the elements that are in favour of this law, because if we believe, and believe in this and also in the Liberal Democracy Club, data that, on the one hand, pollution of industrial plants is decreasing in Slovenia, and on the other hand, road pollution by means of means of transport, trucks, buses, cars, engines and similar things is greatly increased. Appropriate regulation should therefore be found to stimulate manufacturers, traders and buyers to purchase less environmentally friendly vehicles, less harmful vehicles, as this second part is forgotten many times. There is much talk of CO2 and environmental pollution, but there is no talk of how directly harmful it is to release particulate matter and nitrogen discharges into the atmosphere directly to human health. And that's what we have to do if we're serious. Today, the Copenhagen environmental conference is ending, which reportedly will not produce the desired results and Europe will even be lagging behind some countries such as Japan, with greater commitments to reducing emissions into the atmosphere. That's what's worrying. And if we take some concrete step in the National Assembly - clearly, Slovenia can have very little impact on the wider development, on the wider environment, on the cross-border impacts, but somewhere to start. And in the Liberal Democracy we will support the law as well as the amendment of the coalition, which is the result of a compromise, which I believe, because in the second reading we have adopted an amendment that has extended the debate to the third reading in order to get a more acceptable amendment for all. So I was also surprised to see the texts of the other two amendments, which in fact condition the adoption of the law, if this is not adopted, and then we will not adopt the law. The performance could have been different at the time in the second reading, but I believe myself, even if I look at the figures in the table, with regard to individual taxes, given the degree of exemptions that this step forward, the better amendment, is more favourable to the buyers of the means of transport than was the article in the second reading. That is why I will not, and also in the Liberal Democracy Club, support the amendment of the coalition with bad conscience, and at the end of the law. At this point, however, we would do well to try to tell citizens and citizens everything. On the one hand, it is true that in fiscal work certain sources of revenue are provided in the budget when it comes to the integral budget, and on the other hand that what will be obtained from the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles, which will be some things, at least I hope, move in thinking about buying, then that is the right answer. First of all, the emphasis on relaxing facilitates purchases for more friendly road users, which potentially reduces the revenue in the budget, on the other hand, if they are less environmentally friendly vehicles on the road. This is, in our view, the logic to be followed. It can happen that citizens will be more rational, more eco-aware and also look at their profits and buy vehicles that will be less polluting. And that means that the budget will get less. It's supposed to be stimulated to take it as it's said. And as can be monitored in the field of technology, the Euro-5 will now flood Europe if this is stimulating for consumers. And this is what will contribute to a better environment as well as better health care in the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, at the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the amendment and the law must be supported and we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u46	A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. After long preparations, almost a bad year of preparation and legislative procedures, the law came into third treatment. We support this law because it is a law that clearly belongs to the green tax policy. And in doing so, we are probably also in agreement with the opposition, which has concerns and has also tabled a number of amendments in the third reading, but has never disputed the fact that this law is a green law. Today the Copenhagen summit is concluded, which is most likely not to produce the desired results. And that could be devastating for all of us. Nevertheless, we hope that the summit will make at least a decision on the re-meeting within six months when a binding decision is reached. Why did I mention that? Because this law is also part of the steps that all countries - some countries - will have to take - are similar to the law, with similar scales already adopted - to limit CO2 emissions. If we don't do this, we'll all feel the consequences. But Slovenia is strong. Strongly due to the severe decline in rainfall, because throughout Slovenia we will have problems, as we have today in Primorska with water management, with the general increase in sea level, where we will be, and here climate scientists are the only ones to lose if the sea level rises by two meters, more territory than we can ever lose in any negotiations with Croatia. It is a matter of national importance of territorial integrity and so on. The law is green and belongs to the green tax policy also because it is not true that the revenues will be higher or it is not true that the issue of revenue in the budget is the main issue. Most likely, under this law and changing the structure of vehicle sales will result in even lower revenues to the budget. Next year will be almost certainly due to the transitional period, because there will be no tax hikes, only a change in the scale, but the tax will be significantly lower for high-release classes and even lower for low-release classes, and in one year we will arrive at a final solution where, as it is said, the current taxation will be lower for cars that release less CO2 and higher for those that release significantly more, which is finally right. We'll all feel the consequences of high discharges. I ask you whether it is right that we all pay together for the decision and luxury of some. It's not right. This law seeks to introduce a new business model into the Slovenian vehicle market. And it's likely to happen. Not so much because customers are supposed to decide on different vehicles. Regardless of the change in law, let's face it, traders will probably decide on different margins at retail prices and eventually there will be no significant changes, except for the most polluting vehicles, where they are most likely to be. Since traders mostly need one year to adapt their orders to the needs of the market, from 2011 traders themselves will offer different vehicles, more environmentally friendly vehicles, because this will be worth it because they will pay a lower tax on a motor vehicle and will be able to count on a higher margin when selling. It is therefore a matter of promoting a change in the business model from a high carbon company to a low carbon company. And that's right. This is what the Social Democrats support. It was said that there was no point in changing the law at the time of the crisis. The environment has no time to wait for the end of the crisis. There's no time like that. And let me make one more point. However, to those who have set this up because of real economic rules, we are responsible for the existence of a one-year transitional period. Once again, I stress that a one-year transitional period in which all vehicles will be substantially lower than they will be in the end is precisely so that traders and the whole market can adapt to the needs of the law and that this year too will pass through the problems of the crisis. Regardless of the need for the environment, there was also a hearing for economic problems and for the current situation. You can all admit that to us. Whether you estimate that it was enough or not, of course, is a matter that you can legitimately set for yourself. But it must be acknowledged that a step in this direction, a major step with a one-year transition period, has been made. Let me conclude that it is precisely those who say that this motor vehicle tax law will not solve environmental problems in Slovenia. Certainly not, because it only solves one of the many factors causing CO2 emissions in Slovenia. But green policy is a path that's thousands of miles long. A thousand little steps. And we have to start this way with one small step. And I hope so, and we hope that the Social Democrats will be able to do so today in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The law as a law can be positively directed only to the awareness of users. However, the tax rate, as it is, is too high. In the SDS Group, we believe that it would be better to plan transport infrastructure, such as cycling routes, and to act preventively for the environment itself and nature as well. Spatial plans could do much better to reduce CO2 as well as infrastructure, including public transport. We do not support the proposal in the parliamentary group. But if our amendments are supported, we will uphold the law. But I would also like to say that the increase in taxes in times of crisis, I don't think that's good, so it would make sense to find somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It all shows that when it comes to environmental issues in one way or another, here in the National Assembly, interest is extremely high and such a crowd as is now in the Chamber, I would say that it reflects this great interest on all sides, that no one would think that I specifically appoint anyone. I would like to say the following about this law and the amendment to it. Like the transition from tolling at toll stations to to tolling with vignettes, it was essentially a bad move from the point of view of environmental protection, because we levelled all the users of the highway in such a way that those who drive on highways 500 kilometers a year and those who drive on motorways in one year 20,000 or 30,000 kilometers pay the same, and that is certainly the wrong approach. Similarly, the wrong approach is when we tax motor vehicles rather than in terms of carbon dioxide and dust particulate emissions. Here, by the way, I would have fixed one of my colleagues who was talking earlier about the difference in taxation for a diesel vehicle of the same cubature and a gasoline vehicle, and this is about the fact that this difference in the burden of diesel was caused by the emission of dust particles, not by carbon dioxide emissions, because, by the logic of the matter, if only carbon dioxide as a criterion were taken away, the tax on diesel engine was less than on a petrol engine. But it's not essential, it's essential that I, as a concrete example, will say that someone who buys a car that has 135 grams of equivalent emissions, in fact carbon dioxide emissions, has a certain rate of tax that is higher than those that has less than 100 grams of emissions and lower than those that have over 200 grams of emissions. There's a whole scale in between. But this guy buys a car at the same time as someone who bought the same car. He paid the same tax, but when he rides our roads, he does a year’s work of 40,000 miles [40,000 km], and the others who bought the car and paid the same tax at the same time make only 5,000 miles [5,000 km] a year. They are both taxed on carbon dioxide emissions from this car throughout the year. Why? Because they're only taxed when you buy a car and nothing else. One makes 40,000 times that much and so many emissions, and the other 5,000 times that much and so many emissions, only knows how much it pays for fuel. This, in order for me to pay a emission tax at the price of fuel, we do not remember that and we do not do that. We have taken small steps, which at this moment also have an impact, if not otherwise, because it is a one-year transitional period, at least psychologically pressured traders to make a cry and scream, and I think they have actually made it justified. We have now remained in the fact that those who cause more pollution and those who contribute more carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere, which contributes more dust particles to the atmosphere, because more is being driven - here we can also count all trucks that actually contribute most to the emissions of carbon dioxide and dust particles in our country, whether our trucks or foreign trucks. I think we did here, as we call it, a hole in the water. We all know what it means to stick our finger in the water when we pull it out, and the water behaves as it did before. And I must say that I am disappointed that we are not able to take a decisive step forward in this country once and for all and to tax or prescribe a fuel tax, not on space heating fuels. We have a tax there, we have a taxi there, and we just don't hope to introduce fuel charges. However, you could simply say something: the excise duty on diesel, the excise duty on petrol is reduced by one cent, and that one cent goes to a special fund that will be used to subsidise the reduction of emissions from greenhouse gases and dust particles from motor vehicles. It's a very simple move. Of course, only a country should give up 1 cent at every litre of fuel. I think it is high time we made this move and the budget up or the budget down. We have said a lot of big words about small steps, but we do not hope to take that step that would really have a decisive impact on the fact that we would get the money together so that we could direct manufacturers, traders and buyers to also tackle improvements in the situation of existing and operating vehicles, not just those that are newly made. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u51	Mr. Magg has the word. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. And I was just waiting for the day when I could also agree with my fellow Member, Brada Pecan. I didn't think it would be after one year. It's probably true - good December men can have something to do with it. Respectable. A lot of communication has been heard here today in the sense that this is a proposal in the context of green reform, in the context of changing attitudes, purchasing habits, approaches to goods and environmental protection. See, we usually deal with or the country is dealing with a problem, such as pollution of the environment with CO2 emissions, where this problem is the biggest, most pronounced, most pressing. Usually we patch a pipe where it's the most leaky, not where it's just a little drop, but where it leaks water out of that tube, if we want to patch it up. The reduction of CO2 emissions in motor vehicles, motorcycles and motorcycles is to be tackled without reducing emissions in energy, in transit traffic, by simply moving and bluffing. You cannot convince me that the purpose of this bill is not merely fiscal - to follow the fiscal objective, to get some euros in the account of the already-circumcised economy further into the budget. All green tax reforms, successful tax reforms were based first on incentives and then on penalties. First a carrot and then a stick, not a stick, and then we'll see what happens. I can't understand the logic of starting to increase taxes in the country first, and we think that we will change certain purchasing habits, but we are not interested in the economic segment to which this proposal will have drastic consequences. I will stress once again that most of the countries of the European Union have taken a different path in times of crisis. Way to promote the purchase of more environmentally friendly cars, those with the lowest CO2 emissions. By doing so, you can quickly reverse these purchasing habits of people and the attitude towards car loss. Excuse me, whoever wants to drive a BMW or a Mercedes will still drive it. But you know what? Perhaps some year older one who will bring him from abroad at half price and this tax will not substantially change his purchasing habits because he wants to drive his car because it is a man or any toy. That's just how it is. However, we could encourage the purchase of environmentally friendly cars with subsidies, as proposed by the SDS almost six months ago. What France, Germany and many other European countries have done. This led not only to their car industry, but also to Slovenia's "truck" on these measures. Slovenia's Revoz "pulls" on the measures taken by the French government, adopted by the German government and similar governments. As a result, demand for their cars, of course, has increased, so their car production has increased, leading to more work for suppliers and many in this chain. And look at the fraction, even the state has received more money from taxes on these vehicles than it has given subsidies for the purchase of these vehicles. It was also financially paid to the State because the subsidy was lower, the subsidy expenditure was lower than the revenue from the new taxes that these new purchases brought with them. There's nothing I can do to avoid condemning the applicants for purely ordinary misconduct and seeking excuses for raising taxes in relation to the environment. And that's funny, because the slight fiscal effects that this proposal has don't excuse it. A billion 800 to 900 million deficits, a few 10 million are actually ridiculed, and it shows the full rigour of action in this area. We should go to green tax reform where Slovenia is most vulnerable and represents the biggest problem. If we limit ourselves to traffic, it must be transit freight. Why have all other countries diverted transit flows through Slovenia? Why are they rolling our roads, destroying our roads and burdening our payers with vignettes and taxpayers all those trucks from Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, the Eastern countries? Why? Because we have an inadequate policy. And that's where the problem needs to be addressed. How to enforce the green tax reform on these problems, which are far-reaching. For example, you are not engaged in this green tax reform by taxing other means of transport, such as trucks, aircraft, and, last but not least, trains, we also have diesel locomotives. The electric car is taxed after this proposal, but the electric locomotive is not taxed. Why? It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. What about tractors? Tell me, what taxes do they have? They don't have them. Nor is it likely that the government's assessment, and this is most painful, how this proposal will in some way affect the domestic economy as well. Very little to say. There has been a significant increase by Members of Parliament in coordination with the economists who will be tangulated by this proposal rather than by the Government. The government has proposed a series of proposals, some variants, so that the representatives of the Chambers or the sections of those Chambers, which represented interested economic operators, did not know at any time what version was being discussed. In the end, the most radical progress has been made, far from taxing motor vehicles in Slovenia, compared with the countries of the European Union. Unfair taxation of motorcycles and motorcycles has also been introduced. So far, they have been exempt from the tax. It is true that these motor vehicles are also paying a tax on motor vehicles, but if you want to apply the principles of missions according to their average emissions. Here we have seen the original proposal, which has, thank God, been amended by the Second reading amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The original proposal has taxed motor bikes four times more, taxing up to ten times as much as comparable cars. And the current amendment of the coalition groups is also based on confusion. It is based on the fact that, if of course accepted, bikes and motorcycles will be taxed twice as much on emissions as on cars. Because it's based on one wrong assumption, you'll find that for motorcycles, it's only a half-way season. However, it is not based on the reality that each bike with an engine and a motor bike makes four times fewer kilometres than the car, and if this is taken into account where it is broadcast, when it is driven, regardless of the season, if the engines make four times less average than the cars do, this is, of course, taken into account in the calculation of discharges and the resulting taxation. According to the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups, engines will be taxed twice as much as emissions. You will do your left hand service to a relatively numbered group of motorists you are doing them wrong. Not because you walk on their feet, because every tax is a problem, but you introduce injustice. And that hurts, every injustice hurts, and it certainly won't be ignored. I don't know if anyone has really thought about what this proposal means for a Slovenian bicycle manufacturer, Tomos, who will have a rather significant additional tax due to this proposal and thus a less competitive position on the market. I don't think anybody did that anywhere. One more thing I'm interested in is the government. Please tell me: How many CO2 emissions will this proposal contribute over the next five years, so to speak, until the transition period expires and after the transition period has expired? So you're hiding under a green tax reform, so you have to have some calculation of how much CO2 savings will be due to the tax imposed. If you don't have that information, then it's going to be a big problem and you're actually confirming what I'm saying is that it's all a farce at the expense of introducing new taxes. I would like to know how much of this CO2 savings will be compared to the extension of, say, the operation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje for one year. Tell me, because the government, I can see that it is trying to achieve some extension of the operation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, but I am interested in how many years of emissions will there be due to this extension of the visa savings and emissions brought by these new taxes. Then, respectable ones, you can see how greenness is or how environmentally oriented these contents are in this bill. I have said many times on this subject that we also have in the Slovenian Democratic Party on this concrete proposal an amendment, which we repeat from previous readings. It is good that one, for engines, was adopted in the previous reading in the second reading. It is weak for the coalition to tighten it again and make this solution worse, which was established in the second reading. But we are also proposing other changes that we think can make things better: reducing car taxation progression, eliminating nonsense, such as that of electric motors being subject to this tax and so on. Of course, it will also depend on how I act in support of this law. However, I would like to stress in the end that I cannot understand the Government, which wants to mitigate the consequences of the economic and financial crisis by means of measures. Instead of promoting economic activity in order to encourage those who produce in this country, the tax burden in some way puts this into an even more distasteful position, both for the economic operators and for the consumers we buy it. It is true that a very interesting segment of a low-release car is and should be encouraged to buy it. The fact that the new tax will cost 2% more such a car, which costs, for example, 8,000 euros, and the new car will cost 2% less, will, I doubt, encourage whom to buy. However, if EUR 1,000 were a subsidy, as we suggested, this would probably encourage a lot of people to buy. And no one will be deterred from buying some middle-class taxation, only the cheaper wallet will have the one who will do it at the expense of that tax. This is completely missed. Take this approach to the environment where Slovenia is most neglected and most threatened. This is in the field of transit transport, and not least in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u53	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I wish that today, when the Copenhagen environmental conference ends, we would think, if not more kindly, in colors or at least green, but not so black-sighted. In recent months, when I listen to the debates of those who explain these matters, at least one sentence spits at the lawmakers, while the other is already denying themselves. Let's take a look at some simple facts. Transport releases represent the second largest source of CO2 emissions in Slovenia and have been rising sharply in recent years. In 2007, emissions from traffic increased by 17% compared to 2006. But if we make a comparison with 1986, these releases have increased by almost 170 percent. And that's what's been happening to us all these years. Today, those who did nothing at the time are giving us a great start in our minds. I welcome the measures taken by both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance to make something concrete after decades of high-flying promises, declarations, good wishes. It is not a law that saves everything at one point, but it introduces small, relatively short steps, but in the right direction. Environmental thinking is needed and desirable in every way. That is why, as a member of this law, I will give all my support. What does it mean to let go of traffic? A lot of things. There are also many negative effects on our health. There are heart and blood vessels, including cancers and other things. And something had to be done, but I agree with the critics of this law, and we certainly have to improve this area, build on it. One of the considerations that we will focus on in the future is whether this issue, in particular because of transit, which heavily burdens Slovenian roads and causes numerous releases, could already be done at the base price of fuel. Probably not, because a country with two types of fuel prices, one for domestics, one for foreigners, would not comply with all the regulations and directives in the field of today's European Community. But something will have to be done. One option is to limit or collect additional means of tolling foreign cargo vehicles. Slovenians will also need to think more about shifting transport to railways than before. But just before, we heard someone objecting, and I'd still like to tax the electric locomotives further. I don't think this is the right way. More traffic will have to be put on track, especially the one going in transit. However, in order for the Slovenians to seriously believe that, as far as our internal traffic on these, the world will be relatively short, up to 200 km from here, I do not think it is real. But it's an interesting comparison. In Europe, 8% of transport and freight is transported by rail; for example, in the United States, this number is already approaching 50%. And I think it is right and necessary that we take the first steps in the area of the environment, not in the area of finance. Those who have criticized the law before me, on the one hand, state that the purpose of the law was financial, and in the same breath in two three sentences, they deny themselves and say, "You will not collect any money together." It is true, we will not be much, but the symbolic effect, the government's reflection on greener, more ecological policy is true and will receive my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u55	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would say that we are not the only problem in Slovenia that would endanger the environmental dimension in Europe. The largest polluter is certainly America or the United States of America and the biggest violators are the Chinese. And it is these two great countries that do not participate constructively in the adoption of the Kyoto provisions, nor in the adoption of the Copenhagen conference today. And the fact is, ecological aspects require anything but an increase in the tax base on the burden of pollution in space. I would only draw attention to some of the facts that have already been raised many times in the National Assembly by the Slovenian National Party. As has already been said, we are a transit country, our cargo is increasing, our transhipment, when in fact Luke somehow realizes the larger surpluses in work each year, is increasing. And the fact is, most of this cargo travels on the roads. And trucks that pollute not only by release, but also by ecologically endangering Slovenia, have no obligation to us. We almost don't get a third of what Europe can take from transit. We want to be European-like, European-comparable and therefore do not think about rerouting transport and perhaps legally regulating this transport strategy in the long term, as Austria has done. We have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian National Party that this is a matter of one government correspondence meeting. It can also be Saturday or Sunday, it can be arranged by telephone, because there are technical options, of course not for all the cargo, but part of that cargo. In particular, a heavier transit cargo and an eco-controversial cargo could go to the railways. But the government won't do it, and it probably won't, because the truck lobby is so big they don't want to discuss it at the government level. If we want to successfully carry out these loads and relieve the ecological burden, and otherwise contribute to making Slovenia less polluted by releases, the government should also cut into its pocket and subsidise something in these transports. This has already happened in previous governments, and freight traffic between Kopro and Hungary has been regular daily. One car or combined truck train on arrival, one on the way out, was always full, on a daily basis. Today, this has been abandoned because the pressures are so great. The third element, which is not negligible in what we are discussing today, is the heating, which takes place to a large extent with oil derivatives both in the household and in the big giants. And here again, the state has not played a real role. Of course, the best thing to do is to write such a bill that we have today, and to "charge" taxes and press all that we are users of motor vehicles and say, but now we have done something for this minor pollution. But that's far from what we could do. If we want to reduce actual pollution, we should also reduce the use of petroleum derivatives in the household and industry, and especially where it is pure energy, we should replace it with photovoltaics. This can be stimulated again by some additions, but they must come from the budget. And that's what other countries do, but we only see in essence a change in the tax base, "and now we're going to save everything if we charge." That's not a solution. Systemic approaches This Government does not and does not really aim to reduce environmental pollution and to increase environmental awareness and environmental security. The aim is to collect higher taxes because the budget hole is growing. Be honest and say that. And you'll be looking for other solutions, other options to do so in other areas. That's why this marriage is a big bluff. Of course, you are taking advantage of Europe's current situation and demand that we do so immediately and immediately, but that is not the reason and not to mention such reasons as are merely fictitious. If we wanted to solve this in a constructive way, we would capture all the segments and also take into account what I have just stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr Vice-President, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that with regard to the amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, we have been very coordinated and, above all, we have talked and consulted with our biggest Slovenian exporter and car manufacturers, Revoz Novo mesto, together with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also those we are discussing here in the National Assembly. Therefore, in some comments and some discussions some of the colleagues, when even in some of the implementations have been made, even related to the patching of a hole, etc., cannot be blamed at once on one government at a time for just one year, and only because of the possible incompetence of the government. I don't think that's right, and that those who think that way have decided to leave the hall now, because those words don't fit into this debate. This amendment will introduce progressive taxation in relation to pollution. Such a change in taxation is logical and also follows the arrangements used by other countries because it pays higher taxes to those who pollute more. I cannot agree with those, even with some references today, when words have been made in terms of transfiguration, in terms of green reform and changing the purchase of goods and environmental protection. I think that my colleague, Mrs Pečanova, has made clear enough what this is about, that these are important steps that we will have to take to a greater extent in the future. Of course, it is true that this law also wants to influence decisions to buy cars in order to buy those who are less polluting. Cars that are more polluting are usually of a higher price class and represent some kinds of overstandard or luxury today, as we say. For this reason, we also agree that this superstandard is also more taxed. In times of crisis, both economic and financial crises and recessions, consumers have changed their habits and have already decided to buy lower-priced vehicles, which are also less polluting. Because buyers with funds and money will still decide to buy luxury cars, this law will not lead to a greater decline in demand for such cars. Those who have funds for such vehicles are likely to continue to have them, and they will also make decisions in this direction. As the law even reduces the taxation of low-cost cars, these vehicles will also be cheaper in this way. And that's why most buyers will buy them. This law also adds another moment, which I do not think I have heard much debate today; there is also an exemption for intervention ambulances that are specially designed for the transport of accidents and patients. I think that this amendment, or this addition, is also necessary. The taxation of used motor vehicles which has now been in force shall also be abolished. For used motor vehicles in transport in Slovenia, the current tax rate is uniform and set at 5% of the tax base. In short, I won't be too long. I believe that in the debates related to the amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, we have already talked a lot about this in the second reading. Let me also say, because some of the discussions were different, including by traders, and also what would be right in changing, what not, or listening to the biggest car manufacturer, namely Revoz, whether or not - I think this coordination was absolutely necessary. I also believe that it is right that a transitional period has also been defined, as I have already said several times in the debate, in the Republic of Slovenia there are some 100,000 people employed in the automotive industry, in various areas, from car manufacturers’ co-operators to the present time of the economic and financial crisis, and also to a greater extent the number of employees in companies would certainly not want there to be an even greater reduction and forgiveness. I'll support these changes myself. I believe that the second treatment has been sufficiently clear and that it is only right in the third reading that we go forward with matters and do nothing to read and think only about everything that has been discussed today, and the reason is that it is not possible for the Government or that ministry or that ministry to think well, but also for some environmental changes, not to talk about climate change for just a year, but to think that it is longer. Thus, certain ministries, economic, financial and so on, could possibly have made this change two years or three years ago, and they could have made it even stronger by entering the European Union. Therefore, as I have said, I will support the law myself, but I think it is unfair for them to say, use or in some way even pretend that the government and these changes did not listen to the economy. That's not true. Therefore, I repeat this once again: change will not endanger the economy or otherwise make a change down, but will only change in terms of environmental awareness, environmental protection and the continued success of our large, small and medium-sized companies, as well as trade and entrepreneurship. Therefore, let us be correct and not populism in explaining that the government does not have a hearing for the economy. Then why would we have - what will we live on? Let us, therefore, not be like this, but be helpful and cooperate. For all the praises for some of the decisions that have been made at the outset, I believe that they have been sincere, including colleagues who are here at odds. I think that way we could come forward and work well together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well hailed Mr. Minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague, a respected colleague. If they were very pragmatic, they would probably not be discussing any proposal for a law to be tabled in the procedure because they would be convinced that the applicant himself had found the best solutions for a regulation. But it's not like that. Surely this bill is a step forward in efforts for a cleaner environment, and the question is whether this step is definitely in the right direction. I have a feeling that the drafter of the law had a primarily fiscal aspect and not so environmentally friendly. This opinion is guided by the fact that electric-powered vehicles are taxed, that differential rates are foreseen between two- and four-stroke motorcycle engines with an engine and that vehicles with the lowest CO2 emissions are also taxed. Thus, in the SDS with the amendment to Article 4, we proposed lower tax rates, particularly for the reasons we have already heard today. Since these higher tax rates will result in lower sales, they will therefore be reduced inflows to the budget over the long term, despite the expected fiscal impact. These higher tax rates will also have an important impact on the reduced volume of trade and service activities in this sector and, as a consequence, lower revenues to the state budget. In my view, if we draw the line below this, higher tax rates will have a more negative than positive impact, both in terms of budgetary revenues and in terms of the tax burden on citizens and citizens. We have also proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party the deletion of Article 4, paragraph 14. This is mainly because, as I have already mentioned, motorcycles represent an important alternative to transport, especially in urban transport, where this means of transport saves us a lot of time, but also bad will. In addition, these motor vehicles are unduly less burdensome for the environment than for cars. Moreover, there is no reason for bicycles with a two-stroke engine to be more taxed than motorcycles with a four-stroke engine. Both types of vehicles are subject to exactly the same type-approval rules and therefore there is no basis, as has already been said in one of the discussions, in any regulation, in any regulation and this is a more general expression, reflecting the general view that two-stroke engines are greater than four-stroke pollutants. The potential higher rates for two-stroke motorcycles would also, as has already been established today, have a major negative impact on our sole manufacturer of two-wheel engines, namely Tomos, and in particular in this crisis situation where, by reducing production, reducing economic activity is important for any job that could be lost by any reduced production volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will not discuss, nor will Mr Lojze Posedel, Mr Matevž Frangež, and neither will Mr Miroslav Klun. Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The Motor Vehicle Tax Act does not have only the tax component that we are talking about ecological tax or ecologically, it also has another extremely important part that prevents the chain tax evasion, which in the past occurred mainly in the import of used vehicles or vehicles from abroad. This is an important segment, which the Ministry has seen to be better regulated by marriage, and the traders we talked to at the time when we coordinated these legal provisions were most welcome. The second part is that we have tried with traders and car manufacturers, we have only one real car factory in Slovenia, this is Revos from New City to try to harmonise in some way and I think we have reached a great degree of consensus; we have listened to all possible elements mainly during a transitional period so that we can order vehicles that are more environmentally acceptable, and therefore these are one-year periods and adjustments and also adjustments to Euro 4, 5, 6. I also consider that the law is good, does not solve all environmental problems, it would be pointless to think that one law can solve the problem of greenhouse gases in the world and then certainly not have such a violent conference in Copenhagen and elsewhere when we talk about environmental pollution. But this is one of the ways, how and how one segment, mosaic in general, is possible. But it is necessary, as one of the Members of Parliament said, to pour themselves pure wine. This law, at least in 2010, does not generate any specific tax revenue. The assessment is that if there is about such a sale of cars, which will of course be difficult, it will in fact be null and void as regards revenues, but even less on the basis of a tax on motor vehicles, especially because there are so many facilitations during a one-year period that it is possible to restructure and adapt to it. It will probably have a few more tax revenues in 2011, 2012, and also later, when the sale of cars, which is now very low, will increase for the first time, and when there will be no more reliefs that are now and are incorporated into the law. At the time of the adoption of the law, we announced that we would table an amendment that speaks of the taxation of quadricycles, i.e. motorcycles. This amendment has been coalitionly aligned and is being tabled. I will only support this amendment, which is coalitionly coordinated. I will not support all the other amendments that we have rejected to both the Committee on Finance and Monetary Affairs and Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u64	I will support the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. It is true that we have this treatment in the third reading due to an attempt to improve and harmonise certain positions when the amendment was adopted in the second reading, on the basis of the amendments adopted, it was possible to table new amendments in the third reading. However, as usual, until the third reading, it has continued to be an attempt to obtain the broadest consensus and to reconcile between the opposition and the position of that scale, if I may say, which would be the most honest, the most durable for both customers and the country. I must say that I do not agree with those debates that say that it is an exclusively burdensome law, that it is a matter of collecting more taxes. Yes, but I do believe that the things that were possible, but really in the long debate read, have also been heard by many NGOs. This is the law that I think is the most inter-resortively coordinated or so-called multi-resorts. The Ministry of Environment and Space has been very active here, and it has worked very hard in this part, trying to prepare such scales or warnings that would actually stimulate those purchases that would be more environmentally friendly and also to people's health. I firmly believe that this claim is considered to stimulate those who will buy vehicles with less CO2 emissions, low emissions of nitrogen oxides and low emissions of particulate matter. And if you read this, and if you see this construction in the law, then you can believe that those who want it will buy cars like that and save them. Those who do not want to do so and will drive in different cars are, in my opinion, the right thing to do is to pay more. Although I believe in something else; that what, say, I don't know how many average citizens work miles a year, I know that I do about 50,000 kilometers and some make them significantly less, and that it would be more fair to go to the letter of spent or purchased fuel. Surely, even if I have an even more environmentally friendly car and I buy it more cheaply, I will eventually pollute more because I will drive more because I will drop more, even if less on the unit, but I will contribute more harmful emissions to the atmosphere. Yeah, but... [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, of course we will, Mr. Visjak. [[...]] There are solutions to how to do better, and to claim that this is just a fiscal law, how to get as many people as possible is not true. In the end, it can happen to us - only in the first part is it true when you buy cars, motors, more wasteful or less friendly. But theoretically, it can happen that there will be serious budget failures. If there was a larger purchase, a change in cars that were environmentally unfriendly and so on would result in less revenue on the basis of incentives. That's clear. But for the cost of protecting the environment, for the cost of protecting people's health and the like, something has to be done. It can’t be that everyone pays nothing, but on the other hand, health costs, environmental costs, and so on, someone else will pay. The country is not a dairy cow that is somewhere in the sky, but it is milking on the ground. No, no, no. The country comes from citizens and from those taxes that we are paying in the budget, we must also service all the consequences of our conduct and, of course, finance all the programmes, all the ambitions in all areas, in all the subsystems in this country. I'm not sure it's right to mix locomotives and passenger cars. I'm not sure it's right for trucks to get mixed up. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, we had a law that was already trying to fix some of the tolls, some of the segments. But there's an economic activity in those locomotives. You were the Minister of Commerce. You can tell me that. There is a different tax system, otherwise taxes are paid there and this system is regulated. It's a product, it's an activity that generates profits, where the tax is charged from the production process and at the end of the process. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The ones they use for official purposes. I don't. I don't use it for official purposes, it's always a cost to me, it's always a cost. The government didn't buy it. You may have some left over from the previous four-year period, but that's not a hint, that's not an accusation, but if you're already "kibing" with me, then it's okay to explain something. That is why I would really like to believe and believe, and to convince anyone else, if not in this Chamber, and in public that it is right to balance taxes on one side where they are needed and can be collected, and on the other hand - yes, of course, because taxes also need to be collected - by stimulating measures of people to convince them to buy different vehicles. I am sorry that motor bikes are not yet the best solution, but it will be possible, but only to say: nothing, but it is also wrong, and I cannot buy it. There's got to be a system. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Because they also pollute, unless they're electric.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! As I understand this law as the first calculations show, he could have said that I simply did not understand why the government came with such a law. I am not saying that the approach to calculating a tax or any duty on the basis of pollution of the environment - but depending on how many particles or exhaust gases that are harmful, greenhouse gases are released into the air or released by a vehicle - that this is the basis. Probably this approach is okay, just the exercise of total consciousness and class classification, but classification is a big mistake and it is incomprehensible to me. I'm sure that this could happen, what my colleague Anderlich said was that it could happen, that it would eventually have a negative effect. Yeah, and I'll tell you why I won't be surprised. The fact is that there is something good about this is not a dilemma. If, for example, ambulances will be smaller charges, this is certainly good, I just ask you, how many ambulances are bought per year in Slovenia - five, six, ten? And the number of all passenger cars is in Slovenia, what I know, we will say that between 100 and 200 thousand are sold annually. That is to say, we will not lose anything from that, but here is what the government has been thinking about, and for me it is a basic motto, to collect more taxes, to fill that financial hole, because it is not an art that we should not think about in the government. But what will be the effect? The fact is that the most vehicles are sold in that middle class, I'm going to say class Clio, and a little bit down, that's the middle class where we sell the most cars. That's what they say. We're talking about a hundred thousand more. If we only get one more euro in theory here, then 100,000 euros will just come. But if we charge some car that we sell 10 per year for 100 euros, it'll still be only 100 euros, and we'll only sell one. It is said that the largest is that class, the largest car is sold, which has approximately 115 to 130 grams per kilometer CO2 emissions. After those first calculations, this class is going to be the one who's going to pay a little more. Excuse me, Mr Yuri, you may think so, but I can think otherwise, because we have done some calculations because not directly, but indirectly, we come to this data and we need to combine both scales and we need to calculate and then there will be a slight increase here. It doesn't have to be big because we sell more than 50% of all cars in Slovenia just those in this class. And that's where we'll get the most, even if we tax them in a small way. The fact is, this is a threat to the economy. At the second reading, I said that I did not understand the Government, as I had pointed out earlier, because, for example, in Western Europe, particularly in Germany, subsidies are given for the purchase of new cars that are more cost-effective and have more friendly emissions, says fewer greenhouse gas emissions. This also benefits the Slovenian economy, because we are great cooperatives in this area. I'm sure he made the most of Renault. Fortunately in Slovenia we have a factory that works for Renault, this is Revoz, Novo mesto, so they have a third shift there. Thus, Germany is financing the Slovenian economy, and we and our government are introducing additional taxes. That's incomprehensible. In addition, we tax bikes with engines. And let's just stay with those mopeds, we'll say, up to 50 cubic centimeters, not those up to 1,000 cubic meters. We have production at home, Tomos is producing these motorcycles, which have not been taxed so far, and now they will. And if we look at it from a purely social point of view, the current situation, someone has barely been able to afford a modest car so far, now you're probably, if he lost his job, the car won't be able to afford it anymore, I don't know if he has to drive 10 kilometers to work, it would probably be the only thing that makes sense to buy a bike. Now this will be taxed, and even if it is EUR 5 per month, let's say, on average, there is an additional tax. Wages are probably smaller or not at all. And now we're taxing it. And given that we have production at home, it is incomprehensible that we have taxed this class. As a result of the production of the house, Germany still granted subsidies for the purchase of new cars. And what else will happen to this law of ours - it will happen that taxes on used vehicles will be lower than taxes on new vehicles. And what will happen: We will go to Lipnica to buy a month old car, and we will pay taxes there instead of in Slovenia, because they will be lower for used vehicles. Instead of doing the opposite, so that we don't buy old 'krips', we will now buy them abroad, which was once in Slovenia, remember, it used to be. Instead of facilitating the purchase of new cars, as Germany has done, we have done the opposite, we will buy old vehicles abroad again. Madam Secretary of State, you're nodding, I wish I was wrong and that you're right, I would really like to. But it's gonna happen the same way it did with the gas. We've got the excise duties into decommissioned, and they've become gasoline and oil more expensive for us, and all the foreigners have been buying at our border and at our limit of gasoline. Now the little thing has changed. As soon as the gas gets cheaper in our house, it's bought in our house. Before that, you were able to get to the disadvantage of the excise duty and we were more expensive and foreigners were shopping outside, especially the truckers, because they simply calculated that if, I don't know, at the border with Hungary, Hungarian cheaper petrol, or in Austria, or in Croatia, they would then buy there. That's perfectly clear! If the old cars in Europe are cheaper, we'll buy old cars, even if it's only one month old. That's what's gonna happen to us. I wish it weren't like that. I can honestly tell you. But that is exactly what will happen, and the final effect will be that you will get less than that, and here in Slovenia we will have a bunch of old cars, as it was, I think three or four years ago. I don't know exactly. Don't take my word for it. No! No! More than five years ago, we had this situation, and we barely got the thing into the green branch, so let's go into it again, just under some assumption that we're going to put more into the budget. The same was true of oil and petroleum derivatives. Exactly the same. The one who says that's not true, he makes a strong mistake. Those who live or live in Slovenia in border areas also went abroad, to Croatia or to Hungary for gas because it was cheaper there. And why don't you buy there if you have a five-mile distance from the gas station, where gasoline and other derivatives are cheaper? That's why I said I don't understand the government coming with such a law that has such effect. Basic thinking is right to pay post-pollution taxes, as long as this vehicle pollutes the environment. It is completely incomprehensible, however, that you have also paid such a tax on motorcycles. However, I will not say that electric vehicles are also burdened, because according to this logic you should have no tax or minimum taxes. This indicates some disproportionateity of this measure and inequity. In the final stage, the basic motto was to get more into the state budget. But unfortunately, as it shows, and as the first calculations show, it can happen that you're going to be minus, and you're probably going to have to do the same thing as gas and oil and oil derivatives. That we're gonna have to stop the excises a little bit. But I would like, given that there is a lot of diametric thinking between the government and the coalition MPs and the opposition, that the minister will comment on where our mistake is, where our wrong thinking is, when we say that in the final stage it can happen, that it will go into a cashier's less, and why we tax bikes with the engine we produce at home instead of speeding up our production, as they do in Western Europe. I would therefore like to ask the Minister's comment on these statements and where we are wrong. We're sure we're right. Let the minister explain to us and let us know where we're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I believe that the Minister has heard you, and when he sees that it is a good time, he will report to the debate. Mr Tadej Slapnik will not debate, Mr Matjaž Han does not. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, I'm going to start my speech with one sentence that one of the previous coalition MPs has stated that such a tax as it is imposed by this law is essentially the most possible to collect. The easiest thing to do, of course, is pick it up. And this is one of the, probably, key reasons that this law has been so written and that it is also dealt with. If there were such a great deal of efforts to protect our environment, then perhaps there would be ministers sitting here at least in the field of economics, development, and so much so that we could hear through this debate some proposals that could really contribute in a comprehensive way to making something concrete to improve the environment. But it's not like that. Here we are essentially discussing some things, listening to excuses or some explanation by the coalition, how this law will contribute to protecting the environment, how we will almost save the world from CO2 emissions here. If that were true, I'd be the first to support such a marriage. But I'm warning you, it's not like that yet. If this law now states somewhere that all the taxes to be collected in this way are derived from these higher contributions from the rates of those cars or motor vehicles that are more polluting the environment in order to devote these resources to other areas that are even more polluting the environment. The car certainly contributes greatly to this, but in relative terms it is a significantly smaller share, such as other environmental pollutants, from power plants to heating, various large industrial areas, con. We should do more there, so that this tax, which will thus be raised, will be directed to those areas. But with this tax, the budget is patched up instead of making it different. And that's the key thing that bothers me so much about this marriage. Again with the negotiation: strike the poor. There's no way people can complain here. If they want to have a new car, they will pay more, and above all the economy, our companies, small entrepreneurs, whose car is the basic asset they need for production, will also have to pay more. That's the key problem. Let me also refer to the consideration of the resolution adopted, on climate change or on the protection of the environment adopted at the previous meeting and discussed here. I welcome any such debate. However, it is no longer clear to everyone that that resolution has in fact been more agreed at the same time, that the Government and the coalition can now, in particular, refer to the debates that have been there to make something concrete in protecting the environment. That resolution was so general, so principled that, in fact, no conclusions could be drawn there. In this regard, let me state something that saddens me and surprises me that at a public presentation or public tribunal organised by the Jožet Pučnik Institute on climate change or what we can expect to happen in Slovenia or on a global scale on the basis of this Copenhagen conference - we hope that concrete results will emerge there - what we can expect from this. There was none on the part of the Government, none on the part of the coalition Members, but it was a purely professional tribunal, an expert debate where there could be so many proposals, a solution that would contribute specifically to the protection of our environment and also to the reduction of CO2 emissions into our atmosphere. There wasn't one! Here something is generally philosophical and debated, which we can read more or less in each newspaper. It is right to debate, but here we must have a debate at a significantly higher level, on a level that gives some concrete conclusions and some concrete measures that will contribute to this. Philosophy in the National Assembly is not harmful, but far from beneficial in the sense it should be. Once again, this marriage is bad, again it will hurt the most who are already affected, our economy. There's a lot of illogicality here. Our companies, which have any connection with car manufacturers or motor vehicles, are critical to this law. People may not even know what this marriage will bring, how it will strike them in the pocket. Sorry, I don't think we'll be able to convince you. I hope that the Council of State will vote on this law veto, because I am sure that you will vote in the coalition, but that perhaps at that time again the correctional test that this coalition has had in this term, in this year, will be something, but obviously nothing depends. Let us once generalize those who wish you well! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Some views, perhaps a little more global by the Desus Group, which also supports the proposal for a law on the introduction of taxes on motor vehicles. Thus, no increase in taxes or taxes directly affecting the standards of our citizens and citizens is attractive, but it is so that we will have to be aware of this responsibility at last, that we also clean up what we are polluting ourselves. As much as there are changes in this law, in the draft law, I can say that it would affect in some way also this largest population group, which our client, DeSUS, is somehow at the side of. Slovenian pensioners do not buy expensive cars on which this tax will be raised. Somehow they drive in the middle cars, and they also ride motorcycles on which the tax is raised in this draft law. However, as I said, each one of us must be aware of what is polluting, and he must clean up after himself. There is a lot of talk, today about Copenhagen and the climate conference, which will probably end tomorrow, and new conclusions will be adopted, as well as new orientations for Europe. Today, the President of the United States is expected to join them to negotiate whether America will reduce emissions to 18%, or whether Europe will reduce emissions to 20% to 30%. These are certainly strategic guidelines, which will also affect our country in some way. If this is the first law, the law that is part of the green reform, then we can expect and if we want to meet all these standards of the Copenhagen conference, there will be many more laws that will make things worse, which will in some way require us to raise taxes to raise taxes so that this standard or direction of the Copenhagen Conference can be applied. I, too, am probably not optimistic enough to think that we will reduce emissions by 20% without any tightening of the belt in any area. The amendment of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is by no means seen as a fiscal intervention, such as some fiscal content that will bring some large profits or additional resources into the budget, but we are looking at this exclusively from the point of view of the beginning of some green reform. But as we increase taxes, we should also, on the other hand, coordinate the public transport system, transit through our country, and, finally, what has been mentioned today several times, that the effects of the green reform would be achieved even if they raised taxes or fuel taxes. That would be even more realistic and more correct, according to our assessment. Of course, we support these changes in the law, in this light, because we believe that this is the beginning of a real green reform, through which we will probably face many more laws and content that will somehow make our lives worse or maybe teach us a more cost-effective life, the promotion or promotion of purchases of safer or more cost-effective cars, nanocars, electric cars and so on. So the parliamentary group supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, he won't discuss it. Anton Kampush won't discuss it. Mr. Vito Rozej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye. Perhaps I would like to draw attention to the thought just expressed by my colleague Zanoškar, who said that we cannot expect to meet the environmental criteria that the international community expects of us if we do not give up anything. The area for which Slovenians are not used to denying it is, of course, autoistic, not because our mobility would be so great and our needs would be, but because it is the very geographical gift of our country, it convinces us that exactly hundreds and hundreds of kilometers for a job or some other needs do not need to be done with us, but especially because cars are more than essential as a status symbol. Whoever went anywhere around the world would have to admit that according to the gross social product, based on the average wage, the car park is fantastic for us. It may also be one of the taxes that will encourage us to reconsider what a real car is and what it means to us. Many of the cars you meet on Slovenian roads today are probably too large, in fact for the needs of their drivers and owners, and their impact on the environment is still quite damaging. I think that this tax is a step in the right direction towards some re-thinking and there will be no harm if this reflection is made mainly by those who consider the car more than necessarily as a status symbol, because the tax before us also burdens them more because these cars are also more environmentally harmful. I find it difficult to accept the argument that it will affect the poorest, those whose car is really a life-sustaining necessity, who are difficult to afford scales, taxes are progressive, they also allow a one-year transition period and are, I think, by now at least by the third reading, already harmonised. My point in previous reading was mainly about taxation of motorcycles, with the current proposed amendment of coalition groups, I think that the imbalance that was previously in law is being addressed appropriately. In the second reading, we accepted the SDS amendment, which, hand-to-heart, was more favourable to engines than would have been necessary. I am pleased that, in the meantime, consideration has been given to taking into account the time of the year, the months in which motor vehicles are used, including their exhausts, their actual harmfulness, the number of persons who are transported with them, and these, compared to the cars, are now justified that in short, some things have been weighted down, accused. I am convinced that the current proposed two-wheel scale is fair. I am not saying that this is not a new taxation for engines, but it must be acknowledged that no matter what kind of motor vehicle we drive, we are burdening the environment and I think that here is the thing for each of us, that it is honest to do and that it takes responsibility for it. I must say that my re-examination will also be part of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which justifies us to think about the relationship between diesel and petrol engines or fuels and the way in which they pollute the environment, although of course it is not a matter of strategic movement and some major changes. In any case, taxation in this area will be appropriate. Now or less, it may also show a vote. At the same time, of course, it must be said that some amendments would like to reduce the taxation of electric motors 100%, which is a small taxation. Of course, it is always necessary to know that although the engine may not be petrol or diesel, it is not on fossil fuels, yet it is difficult to say that this motor vehicle does not pollute the environment because of other circumstances necessary for its manufacture. The technology itself, the accumulators, is likely to agree with this, especially in the Mežíska Valley and elsewhere, is not the most pure and environmentally friendly. And, of course, that is also to be taken into account. For a more illustrative picture of this comparison, it must be said that we also expect compensation for the use of building land for passive houses. These things are, in short, connected. As has already been said, the tax is the first step in the right direction. In other areas, these environmental commitments we have made to the international community will have to be taken into account more acutely and consistently. I will support the proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups and the law itself, but others, as has already been said, will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vice President. A car means something more to the Slovenians. I'm sorry. Not only does it mean work, but it also means status, and it happens to us that a housewife takes a liter of milk and a loaf of bread to a car store, which is a real jeep, a truck. It's already that we're so focused and that's not right. I've been driving a hybrid car myself for a while now, and as mayor of the city municipality, I could have BMWs, Mercedes and more. My colleague in Cyprus has two exceptional cars, an official, he's a hero. And I'm one poor guy driving around with an average car that costs 19,000 euros and is a hybrid. But so we should all behave and the purpose of this tax legislation is, of course, that those who do not necessarily need because of the circumstances do not know any exceptional vehicle to buy something that drives it safely, environmentally sound and so on along the roads it needs. The question was whether the time was right for the tax burden on the purchase of vehicles. Never is this moment true, for new taxes are, of course, a burden for many. But to tax extras only those who are really additionally extremely polluting the environment is, I think, the right way. There may be a drop in the sea to solve our environmental problems, but the first step is and here we need to move on. However, it is important to be very careful, because, if we remember, we are worse off than all other European countries in accepting the tasks connected to Hasap. You can still go to Venice for a night, which is the only one in the bar that's almost "on the prowl" if I say "domestic." In our case, if there are no such and different ceramic tiles, not least the music on the evening and more, this place doesn't get a license. Of course, in these taxes we are talking about today, I do not want such anomalies to occur. I agree that there will be a lower tax burden on those who are less polluting, and here I support the amendments of the positioning parties that relieve the bicyclists and some other vehicles when they have indeed been overburdened in the previous proposal. Let us be aware that traffic is an exceptional pollutant. We feel this especially in Goriška, because it comes to us from Furlania-Julia landscape, which is a traffic abnormally burdened, acid rain, we have an ozone hole larger than anywhere else in Slovenia. Our contribution is, say, in Nova Gorica, that we have free city bus transport. The difference that we have always had to pay is that we have increased to a few hundred thousand euros and thus contributed, for example, before 10, 12% of the inhabitants of this bus, and now the number of passengers has increased by more than 500 times. This should also be considered in cities such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and elsewhere where traffic is concentrated, where probably people would only go on a city bus if it were free, and would compensate for this payment in the local community with some other means. We can give up something else and thus contribute to solving the environmental problem. Of course, a very big problem in Slovenia is transit. I drive myself daily on the route Nova Gorica - Ljubljana and trucks that are literally in line, and these are all foreign registrations, questionable qualities and so on. When we hear the truck's stuck on the highway, it's definitely not a Slovenian truck. This policy will not save the ministry, whose representative is sitting here today, but the Ministry of Transport and another, for example, for the economy, must consider and start activities. Slovenian railways have become entangled by an economic body which is not functioning. And expectations that, for example, you would load a truck on the Gardenway and take it to Lendava - this path would take at least two days. There is no time, and until we do, there is no expectation of action in this area, because we would be unrealistic. I'll support this law myself, otherwise with some concerns. As has already been said today, we will probably not save the planet, there are few of us, but at home we must take our first step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franco Yuri. [[Not at all.]] Franci Kek. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko. [[No, no, ……]] Bogdan Barovich. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Istok Podkrzyžnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. There have been many positive discussions on this subject, but I do not think that this is the most successful solution. I believe that green issues should be tackled more comprehensively, at the EU level, says more strategically. I believe that a better solution would be a single excise duty in the EU on derivatives. Now I don't know if this is possible, but it was possible for VAT. So I have a question for the minister if he can tell whether this is a possible solution or not. It is said that this is also a way of raising these funds and, above all, the management and transparency of these funds. A clear purpose, it is said, is to invest in projects that would help reduce these releases. Here I am thinking in particular about the planning of the OPNs, there are municipal spatial plans, state-owned as such, the placement of industrial zones and other infrastructure facilities, as well as the transport infrastructure itself. Here I think we should do much more in this area, because this could actually help to make these releases smaller in our environment. Above all, it is important here, as has already been said, that these public transports and the cycling routes themselves, in our country will also contribute greatly to the better lives of our citizens and citizens. This goal would also be substantially faster achieved, and life alone would be significantly better than that. So I think that this proposal and this solution in the existing version, I don't think it's the best and it won't do much to solve the ecology itself in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Again and again, we have heard that this will not save the world. Yes, it will not save Slovenia and it will not save emissions. Exactly! There is no magic stick in environmental policy that at the same time solves all problems, there are many small steps and this step we are taking today is not even the most important step we need to take. Here, colleagues and interlocutors in the National Assembly are also right. The speaker mentioned energy problems and is absolutely right and here we fully agree, what we are going to do in energy with new projects is 10 times or 100 times worse than what we are solving in transport today. But that's still not an argument that we wouldn't do it, although it's totally true and I think that state money could invest in energy much better and have better results. It was said, and I also agree here with the forerunner that it would be most reasonable to abolish it, not at all, but I will go further and abolish the tax on motor vehicles and put all the taxation into fuel. I couldn't agree more. This would be the fairest way, because if you tax fuel, you would actually pay not only the one that potentially pollutes the most, but the one that actually drives the most and therefore produces the most discharges. He's totally holding! There's one problem. This arrangement, in particular by Slovenia, can only be made at the level of the entire European Union and of the neighbouring countries, those that are approaching the European Union. Slovenia is such a small country that the entire transit would, in the event of setting such an ecological tax, be more than a few cents per fuel, the entire transit would, of course, pour material outside Slovenia. Well, not just that. Most likely people in Piran would go swimming in Croatia, people in Koper in Italy, people in Maribor in Austria and people in Lendava in Hungary. Unfortunately, because of the smallness of Slovenia, this measure would be counterproductive, it would be boomerang. We can do this on a European level, and perhaps a number of our interlocutors here in the National Assembly would join me at the invitation of the Government to open this matter up at the opportunity, I hope, as soon as possible, at the European level, that we begin to talk about an environmental fuel tax at the European level. This ecological tax should replace all existing taxes on motor vehicles or similar arrangements, so that people will not pay more, but actually pay the most polluter because they are most driven. But until we do so in Brussels, we have no choice but to continue with such regulations, otherwise we would run into a boomerang. It was said that the change of 1%, 2% or 3% in vehicle taxation, costing 8.9,000 euros, would not substantially change the customer's decision. Well, maybe who he will be with, but I agree that he probably won't be with most, because that won't be such a significant change in the buyer's own business model, but there will be a change in the seller's business model, where every euro margin means a lot. The sellers, the representatives of the individual know cars carefully choose which versions of that car will be sold on which market. By amending this law they will change the offer of versions, such as Renault Clio or Volkswagen Golfa or BMW 5, which is present at that moment in the Slovenian market. So in fact, the offer will change and become more environmentally friendly. This will not happen overnight, but it will happen in 2011, because traders have already started and will be immediately after adoption, I hope that the law will be adopted, this will be confirmed, they will change the 2011 orders because they already have them for 2010, and they will go to the offer of such vehicles, which will be less taxed because it is in their interest because of this, of course, they will have a higher margin. Finally, an argument was made that we are not the biggest emitters. Of course we're not. But that's not an argument we would not have adopted this law for. Tomorrow, when the sea level rises by half a meter, up to two meters, when there will be no more rainfall where we are now used, when there will be no more snow on our ski slopes, the environment will not ask us whether we are the main causes or whether we are Chinese and Americans, well, we will not hurt you. Environment, nature doesn't choose here. It will hurt everything and Slovenia will be deeply affected. One more time. We're not gonna solve this with this law. But how can we ask others to save us if we do not clear ourselves from our own threshold? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have some questions, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. So we're going from point to point. First time. Taxes on motor vehicles shall be charged and paid where this vehicle is registered. Slovenian citizens with permanent residence in Slovenia can only own a vehicle registered in Slovenia. This is in accordance with the Road Traffic Safety Act. Used cars, when imported, are taxed just like new cars and come under the same regime. In fact, imports of as efficient vehicles as possible will be encouraged, whether old or new. The change in the tax regime is not linear. Some vehicles are going to be cheap, some vehicles are going to get irritated. What further encouraged or additional burdened older vehicles is, in particular, a tax on or an additional rate on vehicles that are up to Euro 4 of a quality class and those above will be burdened. This burdens some who sell older technologies. I expect manufacturers to adapt very quickly to this, to adapt already due to European standards and to be sufficiently environmentally efficient in the future. Now the fact is that the European Union is likely to have a more uniform tax rate than we have now, because tax competition, of course, does not produce favourable economic results. This has been most painful in the financial sector, where tax competition or tax havens are usually linked to regulatory heavens and then creates a non-transparent management with a final negative result, which has led to a rapid spread of the financial crisis from relatively small cores where it originated. I think there's going to be an unification. The current degree of this unification is that we have minimal excise duty in most alcoholic beverages, it is called beer, spirits, some sparkling wine, cigarettes and energy. And they are then gradually rising, for example, in the energy sector in January, excise duties will increase, and in cigarettes they will increase in the middle of the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. It concerns Article 4 and the six amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Members, one amendment from the Slovenian People's Party Group and one amendment from SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in accordance with the meeting's time frame in the framework of the vote, following the end of agenda item 23. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Third Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Gambling for Happiness. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal. Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce briefly the law before you. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling introduces the necessary amendments to the applicable law in certain areas, in particular in the area of responsible gambling and control. This is particularly the case in the field of electronic gambling, which is now spreading rapidly. With the proposed amendments and additions, in particular, we want to protect minors and other vulnerable persons from the adverse effects and consequences of gambling, and to implement socially responsible gambling management, to increase the effectiveness of controls, in particular in the illicit design of gambling, without the Government's concession, to enable operators of classical games to participate in joint games with other players, to remove unnecessary restrictions in the business of operators and concessionaires for the design of gambling, which are within the competence of the authorities of conducting, to organise equally and transparently tips in gaming activities, in the framework of the accession negotiations for Slovenia's membership in the OECD, to eliminate discrimination or detention, in order to prevent the ownership of concessionaires that organise gambling, only participants from the European economic area, as well as to record more clearly the provisions that have been put into effect in place for other illegal or illegal legislation. Socially responsible gambling arrangements and the protection of players from the harmful consequences of excessive gambling will be ensured by the age limit of at least 18 years for online gambling players, by the obligation of concessionaires to provide players with instructions for responsible playing and information on where they can get help, and by the possibility that the player with a written statement requires that he be prevented from participating in gambling. This declaration must be taken into account by all concessionaires in Slovenia. We also want to increase the effectiveness of controls in particular in the area of illegal gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, allowing the subsidiary application of the inspection law, which gives inspectors the power to carry out specific measures. The supervisory authority will be able to impose a restriction on the provider of the information society on access to websites or other links through which gambling without a concession is organised. More effective controls also contribute to newly defined higher fines for individual offences taking into account the gravity of this offence. In the face of the urgent corrections brought by this bill, we would like to point out that there is a strategy for the development of gambling that deals with systemic issues in the regulation of gambling, in particular the type of gambling, the number of concessions awarded, the ownership structure of concessionaires, gambling benefits and the beneficiaries of the division of benefits. On the basis of the strategy for the development of gambling, a new law on gambling will then be drawn up and attached to the esteemed assembly in mid-term next year. Dear Members and Members! The government is proposing to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling, as set out in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Gambling is an economic activity and, as such, represents an important source of income for the state and local communities. On the other hand, gambling has been statistically proven to bring many social, family and personal problems and tragedies. It is therefore essential that these take place in an orderly and controlled environment in order to ensure consumer protection and public order. Due to this natural activity of gambling, it is important that special care is given to gambling players or players to prevent their dependence on gambling and the related consequences for them, their families and society as much as possible. We therefore support the intent of the law, which increases the social responsibility of operators and concessionaires to arrange games of chance, and at the same time allows players to decide for themselves to limit or prohibit playing for a certain period of time. In the above context, we also support the provisions of the proposed law which increase the effectiveness of control, in particular in the case of illegal gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we have in mind in particular a variety of devices in catering establishments. By the subsidiary application of the laws governing inspection, inspectors will also be given the rights and obligations to implement specific measures, such as sealing of premises and equipment, stopping or suspending the supply of electricity, water, telecommunications and so on. As we have already announced in previous proceedings, we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling is as follows. To this point, the DeSUS Group has actively engaged and supported all amendments to this Act. We know that this area has been one of those that has developed rapidly recently, with different content and different dimensions, including the possibility of electronic communications, with the possibility of Internet networks, this activity has become wider and reachable to a wider range of people. However, we know that this economic activity on the other hand can be a very big trap for individuals, so we feel that the proposals of the amendment of the law are true and somehow bind this social responsibility that we have to all those involved in it. We welcome any changes in the segments that touch on control that touch on the protection of minors and vulnerable persons against the harmful effects and consequences of these games. We also agree with the regulation of tips in this area. We also agree with regulation on the Internet system. We also fully agree with the granting of concessions and their monitoring and management of this area in our country. As has already been said, our Group of Members adopts all these envisaged amendments to the law and we will also confirm them to that extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we stressed that it would be best to follow the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service at the first stage of the debate on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, which found that the proposal changes more than a third of the basic law, which is the limit set by the Nomotechnical Guidelines, and that it would be better to cut down after the creation of the new law. Since the debate did not go this way, then there were two other contents that were very interesting to us. The first is about who's the main actor in the marriage and the part that's interesting about how to fix tips. I think that at least in these points we have somehow aligned ourselves on the parent's working body to make tips an integral part of the wages paid by casino employees, only those who also earn these tips with their work. However, it is true that these tips could not be taxed or proposed not to be paid for by insurance, which is not the case, because the principle of equality in our country means that everyone who receives wages is also liable to pay to the State what is itss. Therefore, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A friendly greeting to the Minister for Finance and Cooperation! There has been a lot of talk about gambling in Slovenia in recent months. The stories indicate that in the past we have obviously been overly betting on only one horse, because Slovenian tourism, rural development and more than certainly just gambling, in which many problems have recently arisen, on the other hand, the abnormal requirements included in this system. And it is right that the Ministry has made changes to the law, which is also supported in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. It is interesting, however, that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling has proved to be a major subject of the desire of the various stakeholders. Although the amendments and additions to the gambling law proposed by the Government focus mainly on measures to protect minors and other vulnerable groups, the proposed subsidiary application of the law governing inspection, a more detailed definition of gambling management and restrictions for participants under 18 years of age - I must kindly send you from this place to read a report prepared by an ambulance that works for gambling addicts in Nova Gorica, I will say, shocking reading, you will see that it is not only in money - to establish the degree of concessional tax for organising special gambling on the Internet, to eliminate the ban on investment of the organiser in other legal entities and entrepreneurs, meaning that the organiser in organizing a single classical gambling game does not cooperate with other domestic or foreign operators, to deal with the humanitarian authorities, to ensure the development of international sustainability and control. In the discussion on the working body, the discussion focused mainly on two areas: the above-mentioned treatment of tips and the elimination of a maximum of 20% of the concession fee for special gambling. An interesting amendment, which had been tabled for the treatment of tips, provided for an exemption from the payment of social and health insurance contributions. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we have expressed the same principled position as the Government, because specifically in the casino, specific tips are an integral part of the salary, all contributions must also be paid from this income. If we allow such an exception, this would mean, on the one hand, disagreement with the other legislation governing the payment of contributions, even though we must say that we understand the employees in the casinos, we do not think that this moment is appropriate for such exceptions. Moreover, the argument that the amount of the received tips would be reduced due to the contribution burden is not true as the charges decreased in line with the total revenue of the casinos mainly due to the downturn of the activity. However, at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the field of beverages should be systematically regulated at the national level and in the field of all, including other economic sectors. Another important issue was the abolition of the 20% rate of concessional duty. As is widely known, casinos in Slovenia have shown negative business results in the last year. We would not want to speculate on what was behind this, of course they will take care of it and prepare analyses of the competent ones. However, I would point out from this point of view the fact that this sector certainly needs to be helped in these times of crisis, since casinos and their activities are too important from an economic point of view to be able to afford to let them go to waste. The Americans sometimes call it "Too big to fall."".. Even though the amendment has not been adopted, we believe that attention should be paid to solving the problem, especially in the light of the sentences that are and are still happening to us. In view of this fact, we also believe that we must seriously ask ourselves in Slovenia how to proceed in the field of gaming, what will be our next strategy. In all of these developments, we can increasingly believe that in the past, in an economic sense, we have certainly bet too much on gambling. Here we must also be aware of the fact that this activity has profoundly negative consequences, including for individuals, I reiterate that they are becoming dependent. And they're not rich addicts, they're getting more and more people who find fun in the casinos at first, and then they're in the bottomless spiral of addiction. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, in the near future, we expect the Government to present a strategy on the development of gambling, which should address all these facts concerning these economically important sectors, on the other hand, the strong dependence of individual regions and also the negative effects on the individual, on the family to find solutions and to take this into account. The proposed law, in our opinion, brings smaller but certainly very important changes that regulate this area, so we will support this in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Social Democrats understand the proposal for a new law on gambling primarily as the Government's intention to update and better address some problems and open issues in the field of gambling. Above all, it is an important part of the novel, which better regulates the field of gambling addiction, the addiction that has just been highlighted, so that a self-prohibition for a longer period of time is possible, which the casinos will have to strictly respect. The regulation of online gambling also represents an important update of the law, which information technology has already overtaken in its current form. The special tip issue is undoubtedly better regulated than it is now, as the performance of a particular job will be better known by guests through the tip award, and the leading staff who do not have a special role to play in the production of tips will be properly excluded. A broader novelty of the gambling law raised one important question: what will be the role of gambling in Slovenia in the future. This role will most likely be different, in itself less relevant also to those areas where development so far has largely taken place right on the casinos. The future is most likely in connection with the very offer of gaming with the wider tourist offer. It will also have to have more local origins in terms of linking games and casinos into Slovenian cultural landscape and natural heritage, which will be able to attract not only those typical players who are half-duty waiting to turn the card, stop the roulette ball or drum in a gaming machine, but those who do not enjoy it and want more interactivity, more cultural taste, in short, more added value. In the future, gambling will no longer be sufficient in itself, as competition in this area will also increase. It will be necessary to bet on a human-friendly image of Slovenian gaming and care for a person who can be a passionate player at one point, and at another moment a person who needs social help to play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam President. The Honourable Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments are intended to neutralise the consequences of the economic crisis, which has a strong impact on the revenues of gambling companies and on their ability to pay all their obligations. The crisis at this point proves the problems of all concessionaires, regardless of their size and geographical location. Some concessionaires already have liquidity problems and are fighting for their existence. Jobs are at risk, and as a result the income of local communities as well as the state budget. The sharpening of domestic, increased number of domestic salons, and foreign competition, increased capacity in neighbouring countries, the online substitutes for special gambling in casinos have led to a significant decline in profit rates in the implementation of gambling in recent years. The existing specific casino duties are based on the profitability assessment and the 2001 market structure. However, the situation of the industry in 2009 is inadequately different, which should also be taken into account in this field legislation. The general objectives that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law bring are, in principle, good, we are talking about tips, greater supervision and so on, and are also acceptable to us. However, all these objectives that the new law wants to achieve can only be supported if at least some of our amendments are adopted. In our opinion, the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling is not consistent, because it does not primarily respond to fundamental development problems in Slovenian gaming, does not rely on current economic and statistical data and economic business indicators, does not take into account and is not based on current scientific research and studies and trends, limits the activities of casinos and favours the development of a private company Sport lottery, etc., continues to allow the award of concessions without public calls, strengthens the monopoly of a private company in the field of sports betting and online gaming, makes it possible to divert money into tax havens, strengthens the political management of the boards of companies in the field of gaming and does not in fact follow the current conditions and trends currently in the world. In the current regulation, gambling can only be arranged for companies with a concession to arrange classical gambling, namely the Lottery of Slovenia and the Valant Sports lottery, as well as companies with a concession to arrange special gambling in casinos. The Ministry would, by amending the gaming law, which is now in the process and which we are likely to adopt, also protect the lottery of Slovenia and the Sports lottery from domestic competition in the area of online gambling. The arrangements under which online gambling is allowed only to the mentioned organizers of classical and special gambling are maintained. In addition, we would protect the monopoly on sports betting even more. The law provides for a reduction of the rights of casinos, as it prevents them from arranging sports betting. This deprives the casinos of a new important source of earnings, and in particular prevents the Government from developing a competitive market through its actions. Thus, Slovenian internet gambling providers will not be able to compete in the international space, as Internet games are marketed at a global level regardless of any attempt to limit them. Greater transparency and competition would also bring more money into the budget or to finance disability and sports organisations, as everyone has stressed. At the same time, Slovenia should also take account of changes in neighbouring countries which have already liberalised legislation. I am talking about Croatia, Hungary, Montenegro and Serbia in recent times, and they are also planning to build major tourist gambling complexes, which will certainly have a long-term impact on the tourism economy in Slovenia due to proximity. The legislation was also liberalised by the Republic of Italy, which allows for limited accommodation of gambling in guest restaurants. All these facts that we cite are the basis for us not being able to support the gambling law at this time, because it is not in any way a solution to the situation in this area, in some ways even making it worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr Barovic won't discuss it. Mr. Anton Anderlich. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Lucky Friend. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Miroslav Clown. [[No, no, ……]] Matjaž Zanoškar. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Miran Györek. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Daniel Krivec. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mirko Brulc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u96	I'll do it. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. There would be a lot to say about gambling, but I am sure there will be a time when there will be a proposal for a new law on our tables. Yesterday we had a double debate in the city council on HIT, and a lot of this could be brought into this National Assembly, but I don't think it's necessary right now. I will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of this law because I think they are a step forward, and I cannot agree with the fact that it makes gambling activity worse and offers of gambling in our country. Absolutely not. It protects, controls and manages some of the things that were questionable, not only in large gaming centers, but also in salons. What do I disagree with? As a former pedagogical worker, I think 18 years of age, when such a young man can step into an online gambling game, is an early period. At that time, the personality and experience we have, which are linked to addiction to gambling, in our environment, are indeed, as has been said, very severe, tragic in many cases. A number of bad things have happened on the other side of the border, but we also need to make sure that this gambling is safe and this bill here is preparing some and introducing some additional security guards. Maybe this age should be increased to 22 years or some other year, 18 seems too low. The tip problem is also being solved. I have to say that the tips have been huge, really huge, 12 million and even more in HIT in recent times. This is now very, very declining and, as I have already heard on the committee, some tipes are equivalent to bribes, precisely because of regulated relations it is not a bribe at all. The player who gets it then places a prize on the entire table and the staff in the slot, those who don't know it, then it's collected and shared. And I also agree that this part of the salary is taxed, as each of our incomes is taxed or we pay contributions for what is necessary. I hope that the new law will bring a lot of news, first on the burden of gambling, tax burden, because otherwise this golden chicken will die slowly, which would not be right. That gambling will only be an addition to tourism, which we are working very hard to do. There hasn't been anything like this in Nova Gorica so far. People came to Park or Perlo, played and went home, there was no other tourist offer, there was no interest that these guests stayed in Nova Gorica or Goriška or Slovenia for more time in the day to experience some events and maybe men went to the casino in the evening. This has been neglected so far. The connection between gambling and tourism, last but not least, excellent connection with bovski tourism, colleague Krivic already knows, ski resort and so on, and all the other offers we have in this territory, should then be upgraded only with gaming. Gambling should not be any solution from the crisis of someone who currently feels in a bad situation, living in the belief that he will invest, I don't know, 500 euros and become a millionaire. Such thinking leads exclusively to disaster, not only for that particular person, but for the whole family. And here is a security guard who is clearly written in this amendment of the law so that entry can be self-prohibited, the family can do this to make other casinos obligatory for this entry, not just the mother, where you sign up to feel this need to prevent you from entering the casino because you can't control yourself. I am sure that the new legislation will also contribute to the fact that concessions will no longer be shared as they are in the Bayuk Ministry, because believe me, you do not want a casino or a salon somewhere in a small municipality, confident that this will save the municipal budget. On the contrary, this brings trouble. Playing belongs to major tourist destinations, on the border. This company HIT also has in its development programme the acquisition of rich guests from abroad. That's it. Not when the housekeeper goes to the casino with 200 euros, he's convinced he'll save the family budget. I will support this amendment bill because I think it is the right one. Of course, I expected more to be possible in the start, but with the Ministry's promise of intensive preparation of new legislation in this area, this comforts me. I hope that in the spring we will have serious discussions on other content of gaming legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anton Urh will not discuss the victory of the noble deer. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Franz Jurša will not discuss it. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law in the third reading, so the assembly on the draft law, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the composition of agricultural land and the forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I ask how much time the government will need. If we have a short time, we wait for them, or else we'll continue. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u98	If the President may, we have a procedural proposal to suspend the meeting in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u99	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u100	I have a procedural proposal if we interrupt the meeting in 15 minutes to be joined by representatives of the government and start the point as it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u101	I'm adjourning the session until 13.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u102	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue the 20th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u103	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Public Institute of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia now owns 91,000 hectares of agricultural land. Of this, there are 56,000 hectares in land use and also masters with 224,000 hectares of forests. The volume of agricultural land and forest land decreased, for example, by 32,000 hectares of agricultural land and 39,000 hectares of forest land since 2003, due to denationalisation, transfer to infrastructure facilities and transfer or sale of building land. However, there are still many unfinished transfers of agricultural land to the fund by former operators of social property, about 15,000 hectares. What are the main reasons for changing the law? The main task of the Fund in 1993 was to carry out denationalisation procedures when it was established. The role of the Fund as a public institution in the implementation of actions related to active land policy and forest management policies must be put at the forefront today, as there has been a lack of attention in the past period. We believe that experience and records make it appropriate to organise these tasks. An important content is also a provision that allows the Fund to manage agricultural land and forests for which owners would choose to transfer them to the management of the Fund. This provision is particularly important in relation to the solution envisaged in the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, which will set active and responsible ownership of agricultural land as one of the important objectives. The purpose of the amendments is also to bring the law into line with a decision of the Constitutional Court which annulled the authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was given the opportunity to decide for itself on the purpose of allocating the surpluses generated over expenditure. If the fund could no longer use the surplus created for its business in the future, its implementation of its legal duties is seriously jeopardised. That is why this is also one of the most important reasons for change. Finally, we want to arrange for a register of property owned by the State into the land book, for which it is essential to manage agricultural land and forests more efficiently. The aim is to allocate to municipalities where forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia are part of the revenue derived from the yield of forestry concession activities on the basis of Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act, which is also based on a coalition contract and is in line with the arrangements in other areas related to the use of public goods. We follow the decision of this Council of January 2009 that the Government should immediately proceed to amend legislation to complete transfers of unpaved buildings to the municipalities and to re-establish the original transfer criterion, as set out in the Public Funds Act 2000. We would like to allow for the free transfer of additional vacant buildings to municipalities in cases where public interest is being pursued, or in such cases also allow for the conclusion of unpaid building rights, real service and consent contracts, as the Government is aware that the municipalities are an important vehicle for development and that it is also necessary to regulate the transfer of unpaved buildings to the municipalities even after 2004. The decision of the National Assembly and also of the Coalition Treaty also entails a commitment to ensure better control of the operation of the Fund and greater transparency of procedures. Therefore, the composition and the manner in which the Council of the Fund will be appointed shall be changed, through the Human Resources Accreditation Council, through a public call to the candidate and the appointment of the Director, which shall fall within the competence of the Government. It is a matter of enforcement tasks which are within the power of the Government and which can, through operational measures, contribute to the implementation of those commitments to the greatest extent possible. The role of the National Assembly in overseeing the operation of the Fund with the amendment of the Law remains as the Government is obliged to report annually to the National Assembly on the activities and actions relating to the Fund. However, control measures are fully carried out by professional institutions in the field of control over operations and operations. By amending the law, the Fund itself will manage certain tasks in the field of forestry, which are not public service and for which it has now paid the services of the forest office. Amendments to the law also bring about some changes in the field of business. The Fund’s financial autonomy shall be maintained by amending the way in which the surplus is shared. In the work relating to the transfer of uninhabited betting land to municipalities, the Fund will not constitute significant changes. In the part relating to the transfer of concessions to municipalities, this means an increase in costs, which will not affect current operations after the calculations made. A well-respected choir. I believe that by amending the law under consideration, we approach the first necessary measures to implement an active land policy. Following the adoption of other legislation, I think that the trend of further reduction in agricultural land will be halted, so I propose that you adopt a proposal for amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Alan Bukovnik to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u105	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 11th meeting, on 4 December 2009, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. At its 43rd meeting, on 9 November 2009, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The decision on the shorter procedure was also confirmed by the National Assembly at its 11th meeting, on 17 November 2009. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Legislative and Legal Services, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agricultural and Agricultural Chambers of Slovenia and the Institute for Forests of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. Until now, the Fund Act was passed in 1993 with the aim of managing and managing agricultural land, farms and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Under this law, the Fund's tasks are to implement an active agricultural policy and to operate, as a good landowner, land owned by the State, those land it leases in accordance with the Agricultural Land Act or for forests and grants concessions. This is intended to ensure the rational use of land processing and conservation, both for production and for research, learning and training activities, as well as for the preservation of the natural environment and conservation and sustainable development of forests. One of the main tasks of the Fund was also related to denationalisation. The Fund is committed to returning agricultural land, farms and forests to previous owners, in accordance with the rules on denationalisation and the obligation to recover agricultural land, forests and agricultural holdings on the basis of the provisions of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has defined itself to the amendments tabled and has not adopted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 8 and the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 12. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to amend the second paragraph of Article 7 has become irrelevant as the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to this Article, because of the non-acceptance of the substantively related amendment amending the first paragraph of this Article, has also been announced and has not been accepted. In addition, the three amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Article 8 have become irrelevant with a view to the adoption of the amendments of the Committee to this Article. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes amendments, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Franz Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the Minister with a co-worker! We have before us a proposal for a new law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, which has raised a lot of attention and debates and has caused some quite a lot of bad will. Here I am thinking mainly of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia and the Council of State, which considered the proposal of the novel completely unacceptable. On the other hand, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is a proposal that brings good solutions and greater transparency to the operation of the Fund, which is likely to disturb those who may have taken advantage of this lack of transparency and poor scrutiny. Since it is a proposal that will enable the Fund to function more effectively, it better regulates the real estate records and returns to the municipalities the unwalled building land, we will also support it in our parliamentary group. The legal novelty of the fund will enable the management of land not owned by the Republic of Slovenia, provided that the owner so decides, and lays down an exceptional ban on the sale of those land and forests for which municipalities issue written information that they are intended for use in the building plot or where the land is located in the area of the accepted spatial plan or within the area of the State spatial plan in preparation. Other agricultural land, forest or farm owned by the Republic of Slovenia may also be transferred to the management of the Fund, which were not socially owned in 1993 and acquired by other operators after 1993 when the Fund for Agricultural Lands Act was in force. The novel provides for the way in which revenue surpluses over fund expenditure are used. The resolution of this issue also solves the problem of funding sources, as it has available resources for the current year at the beginning of the year; it identifies the means and means of applying the amount of resources the Fund is committed to implementing the planned measures to preserve the biodiversity of agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia in the protected areas set up by the State. The proposal for a novel allocates to municipalities where forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia are part of the resources derived from the yield of forestry concession activities. The paper expands the set of data to which the Fund would be eligible, which it needs to work more efficiently and smoothly. The shortcomings of the Fund's records have been pointed out several times by the Court of Auditors. It shall also take into account the adoption of the decision of the National Assembly, which provides for the re-establishment of the criterion of Article 57 of the original law in the case of the transfer of unpaved buildings to the municipalities. The proposal foresees that the building land fund participates in the internal market of the country and, where appropriate, also transfers it to other operators where these land are needed for the performance of their duties. It also provides for the possibility of free transfers and the free loading of property owned by the State for the benefit of the municipalities. The new Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests also amends the composition and method of appointing the Council of the Fund and the appointment of the Director to the power of the Government, removes control and defines at least one annual report to the Government of the National Assembly on the operation of the Fund and determines the way in which the revenue surpluses over the expenditure of the Fund are used. The Law also identifies the means and means of determining the amount of resources the Fund is committed to implementing the planning of biodiversity conservation measures and the municipalities in which the forests are owned by the State allocates part of the resources derived from the yield of forestry concession fees. The law also provides for the transfer of the relevant number of employees from the Slovenian Institute for Forests to the Fund, with a view to improving the management of state forests. As it follows our assessment of a good proposal, we will, as has already been said, support it in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was quite upset by the Slovenian agricultural and political public. To confirm this claim, let me mention only the diversity of views and views of various Slovenian municipalities, mayors who point to a number of open issues and dilemmas that need to be adequately addressed or addressed, otherwise there will be difficulties in implementing the law in question. The very purpose of amending and supplementing the law is, however, reasonable and reasonable, since it must, on the one hand, be aligned with the decision of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, ensure a more effective functioning and management of the Fund as a very important factor in the implementation of land policy. The amendments are expected to provide a definitive solution and arrangements for the state-owned property record and the completion of transfers of unpaved buildings to municipalities. The proposed amendments, however, also open up certain dilemmas and conflicting views regarding the work, function and role of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and the associated future of land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this law, the Fund is expected to implement a more effective land policy and transport by land and forests than a good master. Through the award of concessions, it is intended to ensure the rational use, processing and preservation of agricultural land as well as the preservation of the natural environment. Its role in connection with denationalisation is also important, as it plays an important role in returning agricultural land, farms and forests to previous owners, in accordance with the Denationalisation Act. And not to forget his responsibility as a debtor for the payment of compensation in certain cases on the basis of the views of the Constitutional Court. However, questions are also raised regarding the non-painted building land transferred to the municipalities and the related issues of repayment or non-payment of the transfer. The issue of State control over agricultural land management and forests is also important. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that a certain elimination of the possibility of controlling the National Assembly over the work of the Fund is an unacceptable solution, as changes cause this. If the management of agricultural land and forests is in the wider public interest of the Slovenian State, it is certainly necessary to control the necessity to ensure effective control. Not to mention the open issues of agricultural land protection at the state border purchased by foreigners in subtitling ways, and for funny little money. And right here in the Slovenian National Party, we have a critical view of the proposed law as a whole. And if we are already in the money to reduce the Fund's own role with the planned reduction of its income, further action and sustainable efficient management of agricultural land and forests will also be at risk, which is certainly a national interest and a strategy for the development of agriculture. It is true that we have expected and demanded that the status and role of the Fund be redefined, and that several times at the hearing of the Minister and then several times at the hearings of the various, related, fund-related issues at the meetings of the home working body. Unfortunately, we had a slightly different picture of redefinition, so we will not support the bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, friendly greetings also to the Minister and co-workers and co-workers! There has been a lot of writing about this law in Slovenia in the last month, much talked about it as well as stories, because there is some money in the back and a strong lobbyist and capitalist interest. Despite the provocations that occur in the media, we will support the law in the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia. Marriage is not ideal, but it is certainly a big step forward and in the right direction. Since we are a democratic party, we allow that some environmental forums within our party also have their opinions, their concerns and we agree with them. Where are we in practice? This moment we found ourselves symbolically before the great mighty spruce in the Slovenian forest, which was attacked by red and black skulls and by some green barons and so on. It was our parliamentary group on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that was the initiator and we first, together with Mr Bukovnik, pointed out that the status of state forests and, above all, their exploitation is inadequate for these modern conditions. So that Slovenians and Slovenians can get and survive more from these forests. And then it started: pressures on one side and on the other side and on the third side. What is the key story and the original sin? That when we started the Slovenian transition, we could not have foreseen 20 years ahead of the period that the concessions took. In 20 years, many things have also happened in the area of forests. Today, I can safely claim from this city that from this concession contract the state of Slovenia could and should have more. That at the time the concession contract was awarded without a call for tender, the price of wood was determined administratively to take into account, as far as part of it is concerned, the famous factor 3,4, which denies the basic rules of the market economy and that the concession contract was prepared by the shareholders of the GGs at the time, today's concessionaires. And there's something else you can say, but later. That she was the initiator of these actions, which she first pointed out with her finger to politics with various writings, was the profession: the Institute for the Forests of Slovenia. Slovenian profession is excellent, state forests are certainly the best Slovenian forests. They were well cared for and cared for today. But the profession, which includes over 730 people, tells us that if 15, 16 or 20 people are taken away there, that's a bad 3% of the staff, even less, that the system will be blown up and that the Ministry and Government are deliberately attacking this ideal system, and that's too much. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, in many companies the same scope of work is done by 20, 30, 40 % of employees. All those who know what the work of a woodsman is in the field know that they are also within their work without further payment. I was appalled when the job stopped controlling the damage caused by predatory species of game because there was no money because there was no payment. Their task is to plan and control the operators in part of the story. The fact that someone in one and the same person is a planner, performer and even trader is not good, shows the problem of Slovenian hunting sites with special meanings. This will be one of my subjects, which I will deal with slowly, systematically now in winter, because that is where it turns out that the one who plans, plans, executes and sells is not a good master. A better master than the Institute for Forests in the field of hunting is certainly 440 hunting families in Slovenia, most of whom operate positively. The Forest Office in this area operates with a positive zero. I am pleased that there is still a great deal of time to discuss and that I will be able to add a lot more to this debate on behalf of the LDS. We'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is extremely important because we coordinate the functioning of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as well as with the legislation in force. If we look at these main solutions, they relate mainly to the harmonisation of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia by a decision of the Constitutional Court which annulled the authentic interpretation which allowed the excess of revenue over expenditure not to be indicated in the State budget, which was exceeded by the importance and content of the authentic interpretation, so it is necessary to adopt an appropriate law and this amendment provides that the excess of revenue over expenditure is not indicated in the State budget, but is maintained for the functioning of the Fund and, in particular, for the implementation of the denationalisation process, especially when it is necessary to pay the amounts due to the non-use of agricultural land which have been reimbursed in the denationalisation process. The law also provides a fund of €6 million, which the Fund should have already allocated to the state budget. This law preserves these 6 million for the purposes of the operation of the Fund and also for the execution of tasks in the process of denationalisation. The law also imposes an obligation under the Environmental Protection Act to divide part of the concession from forests into a local community where the concession is created and part into a country or a fund. The law we are considering is also correcting the criminal and non-constitutional solution caused by the adoption of the Public Funds Act in 2008, by which the municipalities were largely supported by their already unbuilt building sites. This law also allows land transfer for the purpose of building infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, cultural and sports facilities. And this is what is also extremely important for the successful development of local communities. It is important in this law that the control of the operation of the Fund is changing. So far, the Fund has been seemingly accountable to the National Assembly. However, the National Assembly exercised this responsibility of control only by appointing the Director and by appointing the bodies of the Fund, both the Council and the Supervisory Board, and by reporting one year to the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly. The fact is that this report was usually concluded at the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food itself and very rarely at the meeting of the National Assembly. It is therefore very important that this status of the Fund, which now operates as a state in the country, is changed and becomes a fund responsible to the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, but also, of course, once a year, the Government reports to the National Assembly on the operation of the Fund. With regard to the other provisions relating to the operation of the Fund, it is extremely important that transparent business is truly ensured and, in particular, that the development potential of the local community is ensured, which is also very important in this economic and financial crisis. The cooperation of the Institute for Forests with the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia should also be highlighted, where we note that this cooperation has largely ended by negotiating how much resources the Fund will have to pay to the Institute for Forests to perform some of the so-called superstandard services, even though the institution should have applied them from its basic tasks under the applicable forest law. This is also how these matters are regulated in this law in a way that will govern each other's tasks and thus primarily discuss what the forestry sector in the forests must do. We will support the law, but we do not support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, because it preserves the opacity and functioning of the Fund if these amendments were adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Robert Hrovat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was established by law in this very building in the National Assembly in 1993. The purpose of the establishment of this public institution is well known. It's a denationalization exercise. The Fund is, under the 1991 Denationalisation Act, a liability for the recovery of state-owned agricultural land, farms and forests. With the years of its operation and the ripening of our country, it has proved that the Republic of Slovenia or its citizens at national level need an institution that will also successfully manage agricultural land after denationalisation, farms and, in particular, forests owned by the country. The Fund has fulfilled certain obligations, including those imposed additionally, both labour and financial obligations, throughout its existence. However, everything worked through the principle of self-financing, despite the fact that it already exists, the law in force gives it the opportunity to obtain funds for its operations from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The fund purchased agricultural land and forests with its funds. He carried out investment maintenance of the land with which he manages and invests in the forests. However, we are concerned that the proposed law will primarily be amended by the amendment of an additional 10a. Article which gives municipalities 7% of the annual realisation of cut and sold timber at the market value of the truck road from the concession forests, which we oppose and which is why our first-reading group on the Agriculture Committee has also tabled an amendment, will therefore break the existing fund financing method. The Fund will most likely need additional resources from the budget to implement an active land policy. The amendment that we tabled on the Committee is of a substantive nature because it completely deletes provision 10a. an article which is unnecessary and also does not have to be regulated by law. We refer to the decision of the National Assembly, which was adopted this year, namely: The National Assembly proposes to the Government that it immediately align the concession act on the award of concessions in the state forests with Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act, which stipulates that if a concession at the level of goods is awarded by the State, part of the concession fee also belongs to the municipality." It thus confirmed the above explanation that this content - the division of concession between the State and the municipality - should be regulated in the concession act and not in the law. In the light of the facts mentioned, however, we support the proposal of the Minister, who is at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which we have had 4. 12. In 2009, he proposed that those legal bases and rules, which additionally devour the financial resources that could otherwise be allocated for effective land management, should be amended accordingly, for example1 for land purchases. This is, for example, the Court Act, which gives the fund 10% of its revenue. Of course, we must also welcome certain positive segments of the proposed law, such as the harmonisation of the Law on the Constitutional Court, the regulation of the issue of the transfer of unpaved buildings to municipalities and cooperation in the state, internal market with building land, the possibility of unpaid transfers of unpaved buildings to municipalities in cases of public interest, or the possibility of the conclusion of unpaid building rights, real service and consent contracts in such cases. It's over. The human resources strengthening of the forestry sector, which will allow the fund to manage the forests of state-owned forests optimally. In order to improve the management of forests owned by the State, the Fund will carry out the tasks defined in Article 57 of the Law on Forests, which have been carried out by the Institute of Forests under the contract concluded so far between the Institute of Forests and the fund against payment for the Fund. As has already been said, there are some good solutions in the law, but with some points we do not agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so our support for the law will depend on your support for the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. The proposed changes ahead of us better and more precisely determine the operation of the Fund, which has recently received considerable attention and criticism from the public. At its meeting on 29 January, the National Assembly invited the Government to prepare a proposal for a new law on public funds as soon as possible by amending Article 55 of that law in a work where it already interferes with the acquired property of municipalities in unwalled buildings. The National Assembly also proposed to the Government, inter alia, that it immediately harmonise the concession act on the award of concessions in State forests in accordance with Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act. The first important change is to address the issue of the completion of the transfer of unpaved buildings to the municipalities. In June 2008 the Law on Public Funds reduced the volume of building land to be transferred by the State or the Fund to the municipalities, taking into account the initial Public Funds Act 2000. However, transfers of unpaved buildings to municipalities until the adoption of the Law on Public Funds were not fully carried out. The aim of the Act is in particular to allow for the free transfer of additional unpaved buildings to municipalities in cases of public interest. The final regulation of real estate records is also important, in particular in the agreement to increase the efficiency and transparency of the Fund's operation. The Court of Auditors also drew attention to this lack of record. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the regulation of these issues is essential for more efficient management of agricultural land and forests. The purpose of the bill is, inter alia, to harmonise the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court annulled the authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund, which gave the Government the opportunity to decide for itself on the purpose of disbursing actual revenue over expenditure. In the Group of Members, we will really support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u119	Well-known, distinguished president, distinguished minister with co-workers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! As we have already heard today, the Fund for Agricultural Lands was established in the early 1990s with the primary purpose of denationalisation in the Slovenian space, while also managing land and forests owned by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always been pleased with the Minister's first contact with him that there is a lot to be done in the field of land policy, that denationalisations are largely completed and that we will see these solutions in the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and in the Law on Agricultural Lands. This public debate took place in the summer, where these laws were presented online, August was that month which was intended to do so, and in the fall time we immediately wanted to make a presentation of opinions on this subject, which some initially opposed. And interestingly, there were also many who opposed this law and such. Let me just mention that these were the Farmers' Chamber, the Farmers' Union, the State Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service had a number of comments, according to me, some of the coalition was very unpopular with certain solutions. But the marriage is here today. Even more, such an extensive law before us is to be dealt with in a reduced manner. Some things are in this law, which we also support in the Slovenian People's Party and we think would be appropriate material for the law after a reduced procedure. However, a holistic approach to land policy takes a little longer, and in particular an agreement in both the professional and the general public on how to work in this area. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the solutions that speak and coordinate the provisions that have also been written down by the Constitutional Court, it is said that the amount of income remains on the Fund, we also support that this part of the building land is transferred to the municipality, that even in the future for those lands of public interest, we also support the internal market with agricultural land to be implemented by the Fund on behalf of the State. Above all, we miss a lot of things in this law, and we miss quality land policy extensions, which in this law, nicely said, do not see or think even worsen the situation in some things. We also believe that in the future there are no purchases of farms, rounding of farms, possibly also the rounding of mountain farms with forests, the inclusion and participation of municipalities and all stakeholders in this economy in such a way that they are not only those exposed to the Fund, but that those working on the ground would be closer to being present. However, we are opposed to some solutions that we think are slowly destroying this fund. The first is the abolition of the work of the Fund and the supervision of the public. We are convinced that such a fund, managed by 200 000 hectares of forests, with 60,000 hectares of agricultural land, needs control in the form of a monitoring committee. Now only the world will remain, this world is in full control of the ministry, because it appoints most of the members, also proposes the President of the Council and also this Council, including the Director, is named after the new government and not anymore in the National Assembly. I think we're making a big mistake here that's gonna give us a headache in the future. Another issue that is also more problematic or even more problematic is the financial weakening of the Fund. As I have already said, after the property of a very rich Fund which could be financially independent, we will make it dependent on the state budget. It is written after 2012, and I am afraid that, given the major threats posed by 23 million applications by denationalising land-use beneficiaries, the heavy burden on the new station will also be the concession fee for municipalities, in addition to 3% for parks of concession, 10% for the Court and some 45% or 7% of the value of wood is the one for which we estimate that it is too large or that it could be nominally the same amount if it were better managed in these forests, and a higher concession fee would be granted. We think that it is a big mistake that the current government regime, which we all agree on, has turned the bad system of collecting this concession from the government regulation into legal matter, which means that the National Assembly will decide on this amendment. I don't know who it's for. We are afraid that the transfer of the forestry profession within the Fund can be dangerous for the decomposition of the forestry profession, which is pointed out by experts in this profession, and to some extent we attach them to it. We have tabled amendments in the Slovenian People's Party and we will also try to present these amendments today as real. I'm afraid we'll share the fate of the committee. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u120	My colleague Bogovic, the presentation will have to be concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u121	I can finish one more sentence, but I'll finish it. I am afraid that these amendments will not be accepted and we will accept part of the responsibility for this law in our work. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 17 December 2009. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm gonna file a report so I don't miss anyone. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The deletion of the article refers to how and who was responsible for the work of the Fund. What has happened so far is wrong in this mandate, the finger has always focused on the ministry and on the minister. However, the Ministry did not have any effective tools to take this responsibility. Therefore, I think the new regime is significantly better, the reporting to the National Assembly remains, and the Government will have concrete mechanisms to ensure that with the state forests the masters are as they should be. But why is there so much resistance to this story, it clearly says. If we're looking at arguments, let's weigh them both ways. The best Slovenian agrarian economist, Mr Erjavec, writes today in Dnevnik that the fund has so far been a separate political exposition, throughout history to the present two parties. In doing so, I must be honest that those who control it today are working from all the best and fairest. We shuddered at the February of a political group, a group that had been in the mangers for many years and now everything is wrong. And that is why I advocate this solution, as proposed by the Ministry of Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u125	As I have already said in the introduction, I believe that such a composition of the world, which is exclusively appointed by the types and on a proposal from the Ministry, is not sufficiently broad enough to make it possible in such a world for those who are, in a way, users of these lands and who can break different opinions. This is very clear that the members of the Council are, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for agriculture, appointed by the Government from representatives of the Government, the Ministry, government services and experts in the field of activities, of which four are representatives of the Ministry responsible for agriculture and forestry. The President of the Council of the Fund shall be appointed by the Government from among its members and shall be representatives of the Ministry responsible for agriculture. We miss those here who have, in a way, been so far, had the opportunity to cooperate. This has been the case with those who manage and operate these land to a lesser extent. We think such a solution is inappropriate. But it is also true that in the previous composition of the world, we have mainly helped the management of the Fund in our work, and that will remain now. In the future, however, control is primarily a problem. In the management itself and in the work of the world, we also lack representatives of those who will also cultivate these lands.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Lucky Friend, then Brad Roast.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How responsibilities are shared today and who is responsible for the work of the Fund is, after so many years, when we have only established the Fund in the National Assembly, but we have not transferred the powers to the Ministry to speak irresponsibly. Under the law, he is responsible for the work of the Fund, which must monitor the legality of the operation of the Fund and also be responsible for the legality of the business. As is being done today in accordance with agricultural land, there is no need to stress in particular. Yesterday, a round table was held in Cyprus and both the Ministry of Agriculture and the inspectors were present at this round table, the agricultural chamber was also present, and the municipalities were present. We discussed how agricultural land is disappearing in the Primorska area. I attended this assembly myself. You can read an extensive report on this today in the Primorske News. Look how it goes around, I'll say, masters with this surface. The agricultural land fund is a given representative in half of private, private interests and one good store where you can do business if you have a so-called VIP card. We have repeatedly warned about this. If I only point out this "pig" that happened in the Primorska area, when we turned hundreds of hectares of agricultural land into a landfill of construction wastes and thereby permanently endangered nature, we also endangered drinking resources and allowed private companies to also implement waste from other neighbouring countries, particularly Italy - I am talking about Emil Grijon - this is a company that has actually been rewarded with a coastal gazelle. Two and a half years ago, we were here, in this National Assembly, pressing charges and, of course, criminal charges against this gentleman, because the very responsible environmental agency felt that there was nothing wrong. If you have listened to my question at the last meeting, when the Environment Minister has answered the question of what this gentleman has done wrong and that he does not have construction permits, that he is doing interventions in a place to dispose of construction waste, that he has actually done 10 years of rehabilitation in Primorska, then it is entirely unnecessary to say that there is irreparable damage done here. But this gentleman did it at the expense of the state, because he was receiving hundreds of thousands of euros in grants. And more. Those who gave him the building waste had to pay for it. Today there will be a road and tomorrow the country will pay this gentleman again, of course not for agricultural land, but a slightly different tariff. What surfaces these surfaces from the air can be like, if you just look at the 7th page of the Primorski novice. Who's gonna fix this damage? I asked Mrs. Sonja Bukovec yesterday. Of course, she is the least responsible within the Department of Agriculture for what happened. Who's gonna fix it? The penalty is €60 for the offender, but he himself receives hundreds of thousands of euros in grants and laughs. Not a single decision has been given to this gentleman yet, and other companies are quite good at this odd business in order, of course, to put the matter in its original state. Not a single decision. The inspectors have spread out, and I don't know what, Tatjana Bernik, who is the competent inspector in this area, has spoken and spoken. What they wrote in the decisions! However, the decision has not yet been issued so that the original situation can be established without delay. Without a building permit, it enters the premises. Excavations are essentially allowed to a certain meter. Three times it goes over, and there it goes, as it were, it's all bullshit. What this means for this watershed area, for this beautiful valley Drnica on the coast, is, in itself, a disaster that we will not be able to repair during a decade. And no one will be responsible for that. The Fund of Agricultural Lands, ladies and gentlemen, is the owner of these land because this gentleman is the tenant of this land. How do you sell land to strangers? That's what we talked about. You have established even in fact now a modern-day company, the Association of Foreigners is called, so we have been able to witness in the past a change of law. 5 foreigners will be able to set up a cooperative that, even if it never does, will buy agricultural land. What does that mean? I'm not going to stress it. What does the Fund of Agricultural Lands do in this regard? Where are the protective regulatory standards? We didn't bring any in. Where are the responsible people? Two and a half years ago, we drew attention to the million-dollar damage that will now be calculated in several million euros for this work, which has been under way for five years. The former Minister of Transport, Mr Pavliha, is from that area. He didn't want to talk about it. He came to me and said he couldn't talk about it. His wife's a judge, and she didn't want to start it either. I've been threatened. I write about it and file lawsuits. I put the material on my own account, which we took from the dump, into the investigation, we did a structural analysis. The material research office did this to us. Catastrophe findings. We made a motion to prosecute, the police didn't act. Of course she didn't! This gentleman probably also fills up some envelope and lets here few individuals who are too loud. Because he can do it because he has so much money that he can co-finance it. The Minister, Mr Erjavec, has been answering me here for half an hour, how many decisions have been broken, what inconsistencies have been identified, and nothing has happened. We have already advised you in the previous mandate to agree on how to transfer agricultural land at least within the meaning of that environment and those borders that are within a meaningful building area will be transferred to the management of the municipalities. This could also relieve the municipalities financially and also save some money in the integrated budget, because we know how many municipalities are 100% dependent on the budget because they are insufficient in terms of financial, economic and so on. And we're funding them. We've established them to have some mayors there, who are probably now at the church, three inns and two houses shopping as mayors. The whole infrastructure is at the disposal of the budget in these municipalities and all other municipal matters are budgetaryly dependent on the state. And that would be the way out of restructuring this agricultural land fund in such a way that we make these rural communities financially fit to survive. If you do not do so simply by amending such a law as you will propose in the National Assembly, then we replace only one bureaucrat chief who will do so more, of course in such a narrow composition as the colleague mentioned earlier, named only in the cabinet of the minister, who will take into consideration again only the interests of those who have a VIP card and can reach that body, and will again be forged by other businesses in a different way, at a different address and caravan will go further under the same context, only with another title. That's not what we're for! That's not a solution. Dear Minister, this is not the solution. You have to do what you have to do, of course. Responsibilities shall be required from the Director. Mr. Daolio has done so much damage that if you do not have this authority now, you will have it from now on. It is irresponsible of the National Assembly that we have only established this fund, but we have not given jurisdiction to the Ministry of Agriculture. Why our client's opposition to this law? That's what I have to say. Controversy is due to the fact that matters are not clearly set out in this concept that you are proposing. There is no interest of the local community, no clear definition of what may be the subject of trade and no protective regulations. And until you suggest just replacing the way the fund is managed, you've done nothing to me. Since you now have the prospect of operating with such an important fund as the Fund for Agricultural Lands, the Minister-designate would ask you in advance what you will do, in view of the unprecedented transactions that are taking place in this area. Your immediates have been informed of everything. It is more obvious that Mrs Sonja Bukovec was also appalled - we talked yesterday, she came to me - over what she had heard and seen. And I would like from this day forward, when this law will be in the legal phase of implementation, when you have scissors and canvas, as it likes to say at home what we will do. Will we protect agricultural areas in the way we have to, in the sense of a good master, and prevent trade and disposal of Slovenian land? Are we going to put our finger on these gentlemen who are so "pig" on our agricultural surface, who are admiring it, even with rental contracts, doing sustainable damage in the area? I would like to see a decision in which it would appear that all that was found and wrongly taken in breach of the decision to intervene into the premises to return to its original state. The country, where a citizen is a debtor, shall recover everything from the ordinary citizen. Hang on to real estate, all sources of income, pay interest until the last euro, but in these matters, which are of national importance, you cannot find the right ways to protect national interest. However, all the ministers and the government have promised themselves that you will do so and that you will also solemnly sign at the time of taking on this responsibility. And when we remind you of such matters, you laugh and propose essentially stupid laws, such as the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives, which I mentioned earlier, which will cause irreparable damage in the Slovenian area for farmers. Speaking of the Agricultural Land Fund. As soon as possible, propose a law that will solve this problem in its entirety because you know the problem well. There are no excuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. Mr. Friend, I wanted to advise you to save yourself some time because you're gonna need it for the replica. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I guess I do, because I'm going to say something right now about what you just said. [[...]] Firstly, it is not clear what you actually wanted with your very comprehensive and, I must say, a very good performance. Do you support this amendment or not? This amendment substantially changes the way the fund is managed. At least what it is, is a very important reference in this amendment - not an amendment, pardon, a basic article that is being amended by the amendment. Of course, I cannot support this amendment. One of the reasons why it seems very important to me that such a change has already been adopted on the Committee and that I hope it will also be confirmed in the law is that there are no more members in the Fund's world who could come into conflict of interest. So far, three of the eight representatives of tenants, tenants, concessionaires in forests and on agricultural land have been members, as a result of 1993 onwards, it has been said that in 16 years we have in Slovenia a whole range of leasers of agricultural land that have huge areas and were members of these fund bodies. If this is not a conflict of interest and if this does not indicate a basis for dealing with corruption prevention in the Commission, then I do not know what else needs to be done in this world of God. This change is certainly in place only because of this. Moreover, I think that the appointment of the world by the Government is a useful thing. Why? Because the public will also be assured. The public of the fund's work will be no more mysterious than it has ever been. However, this connection between the Government, the inspections and the Fund could be significantly more alive and significantly more active. Because, of course, such an authority as the National Assembly cannot exercise operational control over the work of the Fund. From personal experience as mayors in the municipality of Izola - these pictures that you showed, Mr. Friend, are partly or mostly in the municipality of Izola, and I am on this loading material, otherwise it was not the same artist at the time, but it was someone else, but it started about six, seven years ago. That's what I warned the building inspection or environmental inspection, and they said they weren't competent. Then we called the agricultural inspector as official representatives of a public law person called the Izola municipality. Nothing happened. Nothing happened! We also called the Fund - nothing happened! For the last time, the construction inspector told me that when I called him for another intervention, also on land owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which he said was not purely cleared, whether it was from the fund or from the congregation, the fact is that it was an agricultural land and, as such, it could not be from anyone other than the fund, that construction works were carried out on it and the construction inspector told me that he was absolutely right: "Why, for God's sake, always the Fund!" And it wasn't the first time, so he also said that the Fund always came and said that the inspectors had to stop, say, interference on their lands. Why?Oh, my God! They, as owners, have every right to pursue this operator on their own as a result of the disturbance. It is true that it is owned by the State, but they are fully authorised to defend state property. And he said that he would not go until they came and said, "Come help us!" Nothing happened that I didn't say what and how. And now if we keep going. In the Valley of Velizán, where I was very often spattered, a farmer who deals mainly with construction machinery came and dug up construction materials and waste construction materials into the valley where the only stream and stream flows in this valley. And he blew it all away. And when we called the congregation and sent out a written application for inspection, they needed me not to say too much, 150 years, that they were "moving" at all, and after they got there, they said they had to do a program to rehabilitate this black dump. The construction material was poured into a watercourse which is publicly good at owning or managing the country. Nothing happened. Even today, that material is there, after about six years. It was also the property of the state and the fund, because one part was agricultural land. I must say that I am pleased that, however, there has been such a decisive move that, first, what is, the authority of control, let's say, in an economic society, this would be a supervisory council to be composed of people who will be competent and will not have their own private interests in this. Since I have to say that the battles of the Izola municipality with individuals in line with their concerns as fund workers, I must say this, who cared mainly for their rear when they provided the land funds when we warned them to broadcast the agricultural land to a man who is not a farmer at all and uses the agricultural land as a repository of not waste building material, but bricks and what I know what else he had put up on the agricultural land that he got leased, nothing happened again. I must say that I hope that the new management of the fund next year will indeed take a thorough hold and make order, especially, order. We have a lot of quality agricultural land in Slovenia that is growing. The entire valley of Dragonje is growing in the upper stream. I hope no "greens" show up, but they say they're the woods, and they can't cut themselves for that. There once was a Slovenian animal, Slovenia, I stress, lived in the Dragonje Valley and produced early vegetables. Just like in Strunjan and Isolah, in the back of the city itself. If this will move, if even in Istria agricultural land will cease to be handed over in fizli 1000 square meters or 2,000 square meters, to unite and to create decent farms, which is possible, because anyway most of the land in Slovenia is owned by malt, then only, I think things will start moving for the better. I'm not saying that the current management of the fund isn't good, but because of the inherited, I'm going to say, reckless treatment of state property has come so far as to barely control things that are somehow rolling forward like snowballs and just picking up a nuisance. I hope that you will support this law in the Slovenian national side because it is essentially aimed at dealing with Slovenian assets in the form of agricultural land and forests by working for our own benefit. And when there's talk about amendments relating to other topics, I'll just drop by.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear President! All I can do is attach it to my colleague, Brady Pecan. Of course, I may not have been very understanding. I have been saying that we have been warning this for several years now that, in fact, the fund, if not to be abolished, must be restructured in a different sense of leadership, because the National Assembly has done something, which, I will say, is of course legally permissible, and has continued to act very irresponsiblely. He set up this fund, and then he didn't get any control over it. And this fund is essentially on its own, and it can do what I think is right. Today's legal day is as it is. If I'm wrong, Minister, let me correct who's in control of this fund. Nobody. So it's clear after Prešeren everything in this frame of mind. And the fact that he's doing well, we can't say. And the director is responsible for the bad work. See, we have opposed this concept of amendment to the Agricultural Land Fund Act because it is not comprehensive. I am not saying that this is not necessary, but we must also look at the fact that municipalities that would like to have agricultural areas within the meaning of their enlargement area, and if this is in a meaningful background area, the Fund should consider whether or not the future manager of these agricultural areas, the Ministry, in order to grant this to the municipalities in charge of management. That would solve a lot of things. Why isn't that good now? That's because you're proposing a smaller council called the Ministry, but it doesn't have representatives of local interests. I'm sorry, I just wanted to say that this isn't good. If I'd understood now, it would have been right for us to accept it. As far as irreparable damage is concerned. The state allowed this shit to happen. It's not the only shit we let go. We can talk about it where there's something else. And we also point out that mass excavations will take place in Primorska. 27 kilometers long route - 70% of the tunnels in the Kopra and Divaca area - will have millions of cubic meters of construction waste. Where are we gonna put this? The proposal was in the municipality of Izola for the island and a national location plan should be made for it. The initiative was given, but the government can't hear it either. And tomorrow, when we're about to dig this up, we're gonna watch where they're going with this shit again. On agricultural land, we'll probably put that down, won't we?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u133	Dear Primorca, I must say that you may not be the most typical agricultural region in this part, so your problems are also quite atypical for agricultural activity. I come from a different environment, where agriculture is very important, but also many of these lands are very well worked, and the agricultural land funds are so processed, either in private hands, they are farmers, or agricultural enterprises, as they are in three cases. They are exemplary and can be an example of good agricultural practice for all others. After all, you are also reestablishing the congregations in Primorska because you are supposed to have a strange situation in a congregation, but today it is not a topic. As far as management and implementation bodies are concerned. I think that again, like every single thing in this House, some very flat-rate assessments of how everything is wrong, pointing to the one who is responsible for everything, and the easiest thing in some swamp, some mud in the past is also looking for a future. I think that the period so far has certainly been difficult for the work of the Fund and the specificity of this work has also been slightly different from that of the next years of operation of the Fund. As we have already said, in Slovenia we have decided to denationalize the process and the Fund has played this function to a large extent, that the land that has been maintained in the past has been returned, that the fund of these lands has been reduced, that, in this time, similar to private agricultural land, according to European agricultural policy, it has been regulated by all the ownership structure, GErk and similar matters and that we are moving to some period when it is likely that the fund instruments that could be adopted by the Agricultural Land Fund Act and the Agricultural Land Act should also start with active agricultural policy. And we're missing these extensions in this marriage. As for the deviations that are taking place, I think we are very united. Significantly less, we estimate that the problems in the area of agricultural land, as they are in the area of forests, have changed significantly in these years, given that the ownership of forests has changed significantly in Slovenia, when virtually everyone working in the forests came to businesses and also got the opportunity to work in these forests when these companies privatised when some owners practically picked up the entire ownership structure and therefore needed a more restrictive and sharper approach. If we return to the bodies of the Fund and the bodies of the Fund have in recent years been those who have exercised control and those which have doubled the concession fee in the operation of the Fund. I think we should also thank the Supervisory Committee, Dr Oswald, in Slovenia, that these procedures have gone this way. If we have two bodies, a board of institutions and a supervisory committee, I think we are all so much knowledge of these management functions that we know that the board of institutions is the one who in some way directs the director's policy, follows the policy, leads it, and, on the other hand, is the supervisory function. And with the arrangement that we now have, from those who are supposed to run the fund, we leave some part of those who somehow co-create this image, but you have a different opinion, which is also allowed, and in particular the Fund's Supervisory Board is out. And this fund no longer has a supervisory committee, but the Council, which, as we know in the management sense, is somehow the right-hand man to the director, with it adopting business policy, closing accounts and handing the matter over to the state. For this reason, we in the Slovenian People's Party and also the very wide public, the professional, the premises of the State Council were too small for all those who shared opinions and to a large extent these opinions were at the end of last week with the President of the State, and they went in this direction so that something more could be done in this area. That is why we believe that this regime is reckless and that this makes Slovenian land policy worse than good. From this control of such state assets as is in line, I do not know why anyone is afraid of this control or what will be better now that this control is gone. Those management functions, however, could also be managed by representatives of the founders who were also able to be proposed to the National Assembly so far. I think we're going for worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u135	It is also a matter of public work, and so far the arrangement has been such that the National Assembly, on behalf of the Founding State, has had this right and the possibility that, on a proposal from the Government, it has also appointed the Director of the Fund. This amendment is going this way so that it remains in the future. However, it is not for the Council to be appointed at the proposal of the Minister of the Fund's Director. Just an explanation and we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u137	I must say, I find this amendment unnecessary, and it has preserved the proven bad condition so far. What's this all about? Until we had finished the story with the Slovenian forests, the report was rarely, almost never discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. So far, history has shown little concern about what is happening in harmony. The structures they controlled were of the greatest interest to them to have peace and to carry out their work. We found that in Slovenia there was much too much of the best land for trade, for industrial and commercial zones and more. And most of the time, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests participated in these works in one way or another. And the municipalities that have declared themselves the most agrarian, the most popular, have been leading the way in this abuse on agricultural land. I am confident that with this heavy responsibility, which we impose on the Minister, the Fund, if it does not do well, the ministers will come, resign and leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Janez Fishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that the bill practically abolishes control over the work of the Fund. The Supervisory Committee and the report on the work of the Fund shall be withdrawn to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The public will thus be exempt from the operation or supervision of the fund. Such a solution, to put it mildly, cannot seem well - meaning. I think that control over the use of budgetary resources should be strengthened to a greater degree and make spending more transparent, but not that control should be lifted, since probably in the Government you have not forgotten that we are still in a time of economic crisis. Why are you acting so ignorant of the use of public money and making it impossible for you to control the National Assembly? What is the point of such proposals? Who's hiding something? Or perhaps it is just a matter of laying the groundwork so that more speculation can take place. I will certainly support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, as I wish to reduce speculation in this area, but not only that they will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u141	These claims and amendments can be agreed on in most parts of the story, but the context of the amendments to the Fund Act is different. I am surprised that we are increasing the number of foresters who will monitor through the fund what is happening in state forests. And just increased control, this control is what made those who challenge the law the most difficult thing to do. The responsibility in this story is clear. The Fund shall have appropriate services reporting and performing field work on the ground. I have also heard in the public debate recently a ridiculous claim that two different foresters will now appear in the same forest. Thank God, one has a planning and breeding role and the other has a control role. It is also true that 20 foresters of the fund cannot control all Slovenian forests, but if the mechanism is such that we control individual points and when we see that the story is wrong, this will result in the withdrawal of the concession. Only 1 in 10 sites can be inspected, and if there is a threat of withdrawal of concessions in the back, there will be no errors in the classification, neither in the cutting, nor in the maintenance, and even less in the forest roads where we, as in the forest care, have obtained in the National Assembly some information that they do not hold. Otherwise, we invest about €1 in road maintenance from the buying-in of wood, and the essence of this story is that instead of €5 million in the coming years, we should increase this number once, twice, three times; and in the decade and 15 years, five times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u143	Here I would warn my colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party that they could otherwise have a good purpose in this amendment, but this purpose leads to pointless consequences. In fact, Article 7 is lined, you have probably noticed that, and Article 9 as amended by this article, which you are deleting with your amendment, speaks as follows. Existing Article 9: "The Fund shall be responsible for its work to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and shall report on its work at least once a year. The work of the Fund shall be supervised by the Ministry responsible for agriculture and forestry and by the Ministry responsible for finance. The Fund shall keep a record of the certificates issued and report to the Minister responsible for the finances on their level for three months." Article 9 of the amendment was added to Article 6 of the amendment to the second paragraph: "The Government shall report at least once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the operation of the Fund." If you delete this article, then it means that Article 7 is no longer open because it was a line and was not an amendment or Article 5, de facto - pardon, Article 5 of the amendments was deleted. Article 7 of Article 3 deleted, Article 7 stated how the Supervisory Committee was composed and that it reported to the National Assembly once a year. Since this text is no longer available if you delete Article 6 then it means that the Government does not even have to report to the National Assembly on the work of the Fund. You may, however, take the hypothesis that by deleting all articles or by making the vast majority of articles, you will make this law meaningless, but you know that you will not succeed, because this law significantly improves the law so far. I think he's going to have more supporters than opponents, and that's why I think it's actually now to say that the government doesn't have to report to the National Assembly, but I think it's absurd. This, of course, makes no sense and it is not possible to support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you. This would add to the fact that after the current Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia we have two reports. One report was prepared by the Supervisory Committee presented to the National Assembly and the other report presented by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for the Government. So, two reports. If it's not intransparency. These are two separate reports, and we sometimes don't even know what this is about. Even so, it was not known which report was to be presented to the National Assembly at all. We have successfully resolved this three mandates and defined that, in fact, the report of the Supervisory Committee must be a report of the Supervisory Committee and there is another report for the Government. However, this already shows that it is a very complicated, untransparent, blurry business. Since the emphasis is on these amendments, if you do not ensure that the operation of the Fund is made public, if you delete the Government's report to the National Assembly, then you are also actually deleting the public and the public functioning of this Fund. Right through the report we receive in the National Assembly, I think that we are familiar with the general public both with our meetings at the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as at the plenary session itself, if we decide to consider such a report at the meeting of the National Assembly. As a rule, however, the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund was always rejected, mainly by the People's Party, at a meeting of the National Assembly. Only the last two reports on the proposal and the insistence, always, of the Social Democrats, before, but only in the last period has the report been discussed here in the National Assembly. Previously, however, it has always been voted by the People's Party not to be considered at a meeting of the National Assembly. So much for transparency and efforts to make the work of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests public. There was no interest that this work would be public through the procedures that have been carried out so far and through the legislation that is now in force. Thus, the solution that the Government and the Ministry have direct control over the operation of the Fund significantly improves and actually means the implementation of an active agricultural policy, both land and in all other content for which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is responsible. That's not what it was until now. It was left to the parastatal fund to decide for itself within the Council and also within the Supervisory Board, what policy it would actually design and with what solutions it would then come to the users. Let me also remind you what a problem the former government has been, how to replace former Director Marija Majer Cuk, because she was obviously not sufficiently coordinated with the Minister of Agriculture. We, I think, have been working for two years on how to remove the fund's director and the Minister of Agriculture has only dealt with it for two years. Is this productive, or is this active land a policy? Is it active management, implementation of agricultural policy or something? Far from it! With the amendment of this law, it will not be possible. It is therefore necessary to amend this law, and in particular this amendment should be rejected, which effectively prevents the Government from reporting to the State Assembly on the state of the Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u147	First of all, as far as two reports and double surveillance are concerned. I also know the Company Act and every report at the end of a major company that has to report to the management authorities, the owners, has two reports: it has a management report and has a supervisory committee report. And the fact that there have been two reports so far, I don't think there's anything wrong with the public, transparency and more control. Even if there are differences, it is at least possible to clarify the position drawn up by the Director of the Fund at the end of the year as a business report, together with the Board of the Institute, which is a business report, and the report of the Supervisory Board. Thus, in terms of transparency, better supervision, surely these two marriages are better. And when we talk about transparency, confusion and pointing out also to the parties to these matters, respected colleagues, in this assembly, committees and also in the general public, it has been very clear in the past where this confusion is taking place and what should be done most effectively. This is forest management in the Republic of Slovenia. With 10% of the Slovenian surface, with the best forests, these are certainly the best forests, because they are narrow forests, large estates, and based on the good management of the Slovenian forestry profession, where large complexes, economic justifications, are today also in good condition, perhaps even too many wooden masses. The current regulation that you are enforcing, as I said earlier in the party's position, is a legal arrangement that has allowed such a solution to change the ownership structure in the GGs significantly over the past 15 years, and will now be a well-known irregular regime instead of a government regulation that can be amended by a minister every Thursday at a government meeting, becoming a legal matter so that a ruling coalition can also retain such matter for a certain period of time. And it is not an accident, and it is very appropriate that in 2009, 2010 this is done to make three, four years nothing changes. And when the 20-year concession contract expires in 2016, the same GGs, the same owners, the same co-owners will continue to manage Slovenian forests, instead of allowing some proactive policy here on a smaller part of forests that are not awarded concessions, what management, perhaps even in state forests, would prove, which in churches some of them are so opposed to when they suddenly become concession fees three times, four times as much as in state forests. When we look at the ownership structure, when we look at the yachts, when we look at the para-enterprises of these companies, it's also very clear where that money is. And, dear colleagues, when you blurt out the clientele, I ask you to be a little more careful, because of those farmers who are working on the ped of this Slovenian land, producing 25 cents of milk, fighting will earn little. Of this, if Slovenian forests are pumped in such a way that we have an average selling price of 40 euros, and at the end of all, €6 per country, I am very afraid that the country is losing, as we see, a million euros in millions of cubicles in the Slovenian space. Maybe not this year, when it's hard to manage, but certainly over the years. I also know the experiments of some who are even our members when, as a forestry profession within the Fund, they tried to make some changes and were removed in a very short time because the links and ties of these forestry concessionaires are very strong. So much for this case. I don't think it's fair and it's wrong to show it. However, I fear that the replacement of this regime is now only so much worse, but if we add legislation to this regulation, the existing situation will be definitively concrete and after 2016 there will be no possibility of better management in Slovenia. And this is the problem of this law, not there 20 or 100 cubic meters of stone, not whether someone has half a hectare more or less, but in this point, there is a problem in 10% of the most vital Slovenian forests. And that's the problem with this marriage. But there is no extension, like other countries, when, for example, they ask the European Commission for State aid, when Poland gives 100 million euros to farmers to buy some of the surfaces, they get a regressed interest rate and round up farms over a period of 10 years, because their farms are too small because they are about 6 hectares like ours. There's no such thing in here. There are no extensions around the rounding of hill farms, because of these GG's hectares, no one gets the forest even if their replacements could be made. And these are vital problems that are blurring in this part, and I firmly believe that with less supervision and with the abolition of the supervisory board, it will be less. But I must tell you, Mrs Pečanova, that I agree with you too. In fact, our expert, like the experts of any other parliamentary group on this matter who have already done stupid things and put some text into circulation and into the inter-government, Parliament, has also apparently made a mistake in our parliamentary group and has not proposed that the article that removes the supervisory committee be deleted, so in fact such an amendment as it is now, in this text makes no sense. Obviously, our expert also knew what the majority decision of this coalition would be, which has made a firm decision despite some of the internal tensions in this area, to simply abandon this control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich, you're a little out of the frame of the amendment. Well, we let it go because it's a substantive debate. Dr. Milan Pogačnik took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u149	Your Honor! Since I have very little time, all of it for five minutes, I will be very brief and I will only point to one thing. Today we are talking about changes and additions to the Agricultural Lands Fund Act and all that has been said is very important, including what Mr Bogovic said; I just said today that we are opening the first legal basis for proactive land policy. And if control is the biggest problem, we are on the very wrong track because I think that the system of selection of the world, the members of the world through the Human Resources Accreditation Council and on this basis the choices and also the good experts can be in. In short, the possibility is excluded directly, as has been the case with the Supervisory Committee now that more or less have become part of the policy. In short, I think we're opening up completely different content. Moreover, with regard to the content of the discussions, as I said, the second legislation comes the law on agricultural land. I hope that this debate in the Government will end in January, so that we can discuss this further as soon as possible in January on the parliamentary bench. Only matters of the fund, its existence, are dealt with in the Fund Act. The Fund will be a good tool for the implementation of an active agricultural policy in the future, and for that reason we wanted to preserve it, and also because of its experience in the field, due to the records it has at its disposal, and I think it will be a good institution that can be very actively involved in the implementation of an active land and forest policy. Because what has been happening in recent decades really needs to be done and I am glad that you all agree. I've been called to repeat this over and over again, just having 880 square meters of working surfaces per inhabitant is, of course, a disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 6? Mr. Weber Janko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you. I just want to explain briefly about the report of the Supervisory Board. In the presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it was pointed out that the revenue from forest management had increased dramatically in line. It has increased since concession contracts were concluded. Until the concession contracts were concluded, this revenue was indeed small, uncontrolled, even in this direction the policy went so far that the Institute of Forests did not correspond to an annual period which would otherwise have to be deducted in order to carry out work in the forests. In short, damage was done, both in the forests, because forest management plans were not respected only in order to prevent the management and conclusion of concession contracts with concessionaires. And that damage was extraordinary. If we measured how much money went to zero and how much wood has actually become useless or less quality than if we normally decided to do so, we would be talking today about how extremely badly the fund was damaged by such a policy. Today, when we have concession contracts, we know what we are talking about, we know what is the subject of this contract, and we know that we need such investment in forests and, of course, we also need the means to enable the fund to operate normally and that, finally, the concessionaires take responsibility for the work done in these forests and this is monitored and monitored. The proposal, which was also transmitted by the Slovenian People's Party, was that they would practically not be concessionaires in the forestry areas in Slovenia 14 but to grant concessions for forestry units. It has one forest-economy area, say, 500 forestry units. Can you imagine what control in this case would be over working in Slovenian forests?Oh, my God! Nothing! So that everything we do in these years goes in the direction of improving the quality of the Fund's business, the quality of the business of concessionaires and also the quality of the management of agricultural land leasers. How many contracts have not been concluded to process agricultural land in the history of the operation of the Fund? It's huge. It's getting cleaned up today. It's getting smaller. So that the work that has been done so far, in the sense that irregularities have been highlighted and legal changes have also been adapted, has always been directed from our side to make the operation of the Fund transparent and also to the functioning of the tenants and concessionaires. This law makes it even better. That way, I refuse all hints that there will be less control or a worse operation of the fund. He'll be much better.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment and Article 6? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u153	Article 7 is that article which remained open from the field of financing. In some ways, this amendment also points to what is the harsh reality of this regime today, that in addition to the concession to be paid to the municipalities, the concession to the Court or 10% of the concession fee to the Court, and on the other hand 3% to the parks. This is what we point out that, in addition to the current additional concession fee for municipalities, it will be possible to jeopardise the long-term operation of the Fund. As I have already said in the introduction, the very serious threat posed as Damocle's sword over this fund is that denationalising beneficiaries have, in accordance with the legislation, the possibility to apply for damage due to the non-use of forests or agricultural land and these claims have so far accumulated up to 23 million. We have received a correct report from the Fund that it is very difficult to assess how much will actually have to be paid in the end, because of the cases so far, which have been significantly lower in the truth, given that the biggest denationalisations have ended in recent years and that it is virtually impossible to predict whether these 23 million claims will eventually result in, I do not know, 5 million compensations, or 10 or 15. This is, in our deep conviction, the greatest threat, and on the other hand, additional burdens are being added. We support this change, which has now been that this concession fee or concession fee is not bound to the municipalities' concession fee at the end when we deduct all costs but is linked to the price of wood. Here, we believe that even if there is real improvement in forest management and more concessional benefits, it would allow most of this tax to remain in the state budget and thus remain sufficient resources for the implementation of the active land policy. As we have already said, alongside management, this financial exposure of the Fund is, in our opinion, a very large problem that will in the future threaten the long term of this fund, because I fear that it will be very difficult to obtain funds from the budget for this purpose. I think that there is no need for this fund to remain financially independent in the future, because 200,000 hectares of forests, the best Slovenian forests, 60,000 hectares of agricultural land is sufficient to allow this fund to live on its own. More than that, as in the past, it can be directed towards the necessary purchases of land and the rounding of farms. I hope that this amendment will be adopted and that this financial independence of the Fund will be maintained in part in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 7? Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u155	I must say that, as I have heard since the beginning, this law has been "fearfully" accepted in order for a country to be able to return land and forests to denationalising beneficiaries from a central point of view. I do not agree with this statement, but, for example, it is logical that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests should also compensate for the inability to manage forests and agricultural land, so this first paragraph of Article 7 is in place. However, I have something else to say; €23 million is a calculated claim, a set of all claims for compensation for inefficiencies in management, in particular with forests. Given that we know that it is not true that the fund has the best Slovenian forest management, on average they are among the best, but the best Slovenian forests have the Roman Catholic Church and Count Atemsi. They received the best forests; at Pohorje, in particular, the forests that this country created, because Pohorje was almost naked when the state nationalized Pohorje, if we can say so, and Kozjak. Yeah, yeah, that's right. And I think that those who know what Slovenian forestry did after World War II - the end of World War II was 33% of the area covered by forests in Slovenia, and today 63% of the area is covered by forests. It is said that almost 100% has increased, but these are the surfaces of quality forests, these are not forests that have been created by growth. So those who have received affluent surfaces, systematically afforested, preserved, maintained, cultivated, farmed, forest roads maintained and constructed, trains that have received this return, do not have the right to claim EUR 23 million in compensation for the inability to manage because they should pay for having received the highest quality forests returned in the denationalisation process. That's the first one. And secondly, when we're talking about 3% park charges and so on, I think it's pretty clear that this money has to come from somewhere. He's not in the budget, but I hope we can finally get a cab for - what's it called? - maintenance of forest roads, including from those that have received forests as denationalising beneficiaries, and do not pay this fee. If this fee had been paid, then a great deal of money could have come into the state budget and would have been spent on paying what the fund should have paid. I don't know why other forest owners wouldn't. So much, by the way. This is why, of course, I also cannot agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And this article makes me think, well, I could say almost hypocrisy without chance. Some would not let part of this income, which is created in more than 150 Slovene municipalities and is a surplus, be used there, but should only be used for denationalisation and similar purposes. Whoever is to blame that we Slovenians have walked the richest, most luxurious, most luxurious denationalisation in Europe, let him knock first on his conscience. It is known which governments and when they voted. And now it's a story without end. I admit, they were caused in the years after World War II, always agreeing to make amends, but you can't pay someone back and pay more than he's entitled to. The passengers were then Augusts, oxen and horses, returning forests with richer, richer wood supplies, with greater accessibility, better transport infrastructure, with more care, with more maintenance. And another error: it is right that we return those to whom we have wronged. Many of them also want to complete these procedures. There are a number of abnormally large compensations in the back and new owners are ready to discuss this with the country and coordinate. In many cases, however, the State does not agree to their settlement offers and leaves the decision to the Court of Justice, so that in the end the purchases for the country will be several times higher than they would have been. It is simply necessary to review these procedures and, where settlement can be reached, to agree with the new owners, to achieve this as soon as possible, so as not to pay more expensive judicial costs and high late interest. The question is why the municipalities of concessions. I have to say and admit, the first time I saw that, of course, I was under a bit of pressure. But when I opened up other concessional stories, I see that the municipalities that own, not owned, or owned, in their area of state forests receive relatively little. If we look at how we share money, concession fee in Slovenia, say, at hydro power plants, at a nuclear power plant or at the Postojna Cave. The Postojna Cave is a monument of state importance, but it gives the country only 2% of the concession fee; everything else goes to two local communities. Right and right, only these same people can and cannot object to the fact that the proportion of this meal created in the territory of a particular congregation would also be obtained by the municipality for interventions aimed at the development, maintenance of infrastructure, forest roads or anything else. If we include and compare the story and the privileges of municipalities that have casinos and also receive a rich concession, then the municipalities that have forests, either in this respect or in percent or in the amount of money, are certainly deprived. And it is right that this country, if it has decided to correct the denationalisation errors, we will also correct them, but not all of them and not just at the expense of the Fund. Otherwise, the fund generates more than EUR 20 million per year. If we do business well, more cost-effectively - and this is what this amendment of the law is about - there will be more revenue. And if we're going to devote a dozen of this to the local communities where this money is created and created, I don't think we've done anything wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I've seen two people reported yet, so I'm asking. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7 and open the time for the application? Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u159	Dear Mr. Saiovic! I'm on my own first term in the National Assembly, so I'd be allowed some kind of slip. You, like the one you were in this National Assembly when you were doing denationalisation, should certainly not be allowed to miss even an article whose amendment. This amendment relating to Article 7 and Article 7 reads as follows: "The Fund shall allocate the surplus of revenue over the expenditure of the Fund to the development of the Fund's activities..." Our amendment is to make a dot here and to continue "and to cover the liability under compensation for the inability to use agricultural land and forests in accordance with the law governing denationalisation". The following article discusses concessions. We haven't amended that, so much possible knowledge. Above all, I think you know this, but you only wanted to present to the Slovenian public something else that we wrote. The purpose of this amendment has gone in this direction, that there is undeniably something wrong, that we pay 10% from the farm fund to the Slovenian compensation company, which is also liable for payment of denaciolation, and on the other hand we also pay these obligations to pay for the inability to manage these land. The purpose of this amendment was in this direction that the fund would not be liable to these payments, but that this would be settled from another, according to the Court, account. As far as income is concerned, I think you have the wrong information. This reality is such that in recent years in Slovenian forests we have collected concessions from three, four, now six million and about five million from agricultural land. Then there are still benefits that are somewhat budgetary, but not up to 20 million, but that figure is significantly lower than 20 million, together there somewhere between 12 and 14 million, and with an outflow and possibly higher payment of compensation for denationalising beneficiaries - we note that financial threat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich. A replica? Replica mags. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we have often agreed with Mr France Bogovic. They're at this point, too. At the time when the issue of denationalisation and nationalisation was regulated in this country, neither one of us had any more important functions in Slovenian politics. They did it in this country in the most not-happy way others. I agree, however, that we are talking about the excess of revenue over the Fund's expenditure. And that's exactly why we're going to share 45% of the concession fee with almost 150 Slovene municipalities. Otherwise, the fund was set up with two basic purposes: one was land regulation and return in the context of denationalisation, and the other was managed and managed by landowners owned by the State of Slovenia. And my conviction is still this moment, and for this I am also fighting that the fund and the country would be a better master, that on the land would not happen what Mr Srečko Friend explained that the municipalities, the local communities, are investing in the inspection, because the land funds that are leased are inappropriately, improperly processed or unprocessed in order to process this situation. Agricultural land is wealth, value. In addition to other multifunctional effects, they have to make some income, and that's what we're going to do, if there's more income, then we'll be able to share it more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment to Article 7, which states that expenditure surpluses should be used exclusively for the development of the Fund's activities, as this is the only logic. What some have discussed is that 7%, from concessions in relation to the activities carried out to municipalities and, of course, the question is why concessions are so low. Either the GGs are so bad at mastering themselves, or there's another question. Are any of those who are not supposed to be around, in some quiet society in these companies, that is, some silent owners who will come when they are no longer active in politics. This can also be one of the reasons and, of course, by this law, it is perfectly clear that some congregations will certainly get the Kočevje Congregation farthest away from it. That's what needs to be said in public. According to my calculations, there's half a million euros ahead. Now, with these changes, to mix and speak, just as some like to, even though they were young people at the time or went to elementary school, when the country was becoming and when it was deciding how to get international recognition and so on. It was probably not just the way things were done at home, but some countries, if you remember or, if you forgot, just from the Vatican, were the first and most important ones that stood by us, but today to say that this is changing because of this or that - I don't know that something is not done because the Church has got the best forests and so on. It also pays significantly more than, of course, those who have received concessions. But it is true, as has been said several times today, that these things go from these GGs, which parallelly create some societies that don't belong at all. I don't know if there's any other way you could understand, but of course you can hardly understand how those GG yachts at sea "feed" into Slovenian forests. Please, look, we're not stupid enough not to know what you're doing. You're just working for damage to Slovenian forests, and if this is the start of a proactive land policy, then God help us. Some also thought yesterday that they would succeed, even though they voted against the resolution of the various boats in the back, that they would still have the doors open for gas terminals and today I was in Cyprus, the people are thrilled that the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party was voted on and they say those who were against having to be put to the cross. And I hope that this will not happen to you, but at the next election they will tell you their own. Minister, why 880 square meters only of land surfaces per inhabitant? Yeah, well, who led this country? When there was a highway running through Savinja, who led it, why did it work in the middle of Savinijska, why did it have to be torn apart? Couldn't it be done after the edge? No! No! Just one -- like you said, some LDS or what some forty-four MPs had. Please! Now this guy's giving us the salt! Come on, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u165	I would like to say to Mr Puksic that, since I was the only one who voted against the resolution yesterday, I would suggest, Mr Puksic, that you suggest more in my style where I should be shoved. Not on the cross, Mr. Pukšič, on the star of the flower, you know! I belong there more because I don't like dealing with the cross. And when you talk about how the Church, the Vatican, pays the most for forest management - it's not true at all! Because it does not pay what all other forest owners have to pay and what the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests pays to the country for maintenance of forest roads. He doesn't pay taxes! She's forgiven for unknown reasons. It's likely that that LDS has forgiven him for unknown reasons, the Vatican, of this payment. And finally, I would suggest to you, Mr Pukšič, that when you talk about things that you do not know, that you first let yourself learn a little from your neighbor, who is truly a great expert in the field of agricultural land and forests, which I deeply respect, of course we do not agree in everything that we talk about on the committee, but I think that your performance today has been under every criticism of cultural speech. And I think the chairman should give you a little warning, which is why I am warning you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Givdo Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our amendments are certainly targeted and we also believe that they are geared towards better management and also a better buy-in of the country's financial resources. Because at this point, we're convinced that this withdrawal is too small and that you don't want to-don't want to get too full of private pockets of this money. Look, once nationalisation was introduced, the country got these forests, managed them, most likely managed them well. However, in the Yugoslav Paradise we have been in Slovenia, and most likely today, we have exported unprocessed wood, instead of then developing an industry that would transform this and this wood into final products and also into a better financial buyout. A farmer's forest means a bank. The bank for those difficult times when there was a disaster in the field when there was no money, and the farmer thought very carefully about when he knocked down one of the trees and sold it to save his existence. Here, in this case, I think that this relationship should be somewhere on the same level, that when it comes to helping a farmer today, when he gets only 24 cents per litre of milk, so that in here he can also get the funds that would then be re-analysed to such aid. Today is one time, tomorrow is another time, and I think it is appropriate to act accordingly. Look, we were talking about denationalization. There was a time when nationalization came. Today alone, this capital, this main, most important silver of the Slovenian state, has been transferred into the pockets of the tycoons. I don't think there'd be anything wrong with having another nationalization happen, but starting over because we were making mistakes. Back then, in those days when we were defending this matter, we were in the government, we had the strength we had, but certainly not enough. You may well recall how Mr Marjan Podobnik ended his political career, and also how in the case of SCT the story showed how much power you have. Today, this SCT is one of the most powerful companies in the country, and I don't know if it works as well as it should, but it is already very much privatised and those small shareholders have nothing to do with it. But it is true that at the time I had no opportunity to influence politics, but I have been following politics all this time, and it is clear to me that mistakes will happen at any time if you want to do the best. And today we are at this moment when we want to correct one of these mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, because I give you my word, at the same time I ask you to give me your words, because if I literally understood your parables, I should take your word away from you, but I understood them as an illustration, Mrs Pečanova, and I ask you to take this for your knowledge and to stop with the debate on nailing to the cross or on the star. Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also said it in parables. It is true, however, that those who control church forests are paid from three to four times better, or the church gives three to four, even five times more, than they give GG to the state. So, something's wrong. Why? Probably also due to some related ownership structures that come in this country more late a day. About denationalisation, whether everything was okay or not. However, it was also wrong that she was not accepted in this National Assembly, and I was already here, including lustration. But it is also true that when our country was recognised or even before our country was recognised, it was necessary not only to talk about the star and in which the star would surrender, but also, of course, about the right to own property.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u171	I will completely avoid ideological debate. However, I must say that I am pleased that we have a common goal and that the desire to improve the operation of the Fund is made transparent and based on sound economic foundations. If it has been mentioned that this money will go on one side to municipal budgets, that it should also be earmarked for agriculture, rural development and so on, I must say that the municipality I know best spends four to five times as much on calls every year for agriculture as it will get from this concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u172	Mrs. Breda Pecan, did you ask for a discussion? No, no, no. Does anyone else want to discuss this with the 7th? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 12 and the amendment to this Article. Just a warning. The question was raised as to whether an amendment to Article 12 was possible because it had not been amended. We have been informed that this is a transitional provision which can be amended even if it is not specifically amended in the course of the discussion on the working body. So I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u173	Just an explanation. I am pleased that we can talk about this article, although it is in the transitional provisions, but it is a very large substantive matter, such as this whole law, even though it is adopted in a reduced procedure. It is about transferring part of the forestry sector to the fund and these foresters are supposed to be taking care of forest management now. One of the officers said that it was similar to criminals who were supposed to deal with economic crime in an organised society, and it was a parable of chickens going over foxes. I am afraid that in this part it is impossible to cover the entire Slovenian space with 15, 20 foresters and transfer these people from GG's, pardon, from the Forest Institute to the Fund and that they could cover the entire space. Perhaps in the past, better solutions have been devised to allow this traceability, so that representatives of the Institute for Forests, which we know is 700 in the entire network across Slovenia, could monitor this during January. There were other instruments to determine the traceability of wood in order to carry out various "checkings", inspections of trucks. I must say that I do not know this arrangement enough to be able to defend it in a sovereign way. However, by the forestry and forestry profession, which is valid in Slovenia, it was warned. I hope this amendment is not adopted [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Well, with regard to the transition of workers from the Institute of Forests to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, it is very clear that this transition is necessary because they have been warned that the Fund must exercise better control over work in forests. And that's the solution we're legislating. On the other hand, I must make it very clear that the Institute for Forests can manage all that the Fund had to pay for under the current forest law in accordance with the resources it receives from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for its operations. And it happened that, in fact, the forestry profession was not talking about how to take on some work in the forest, but how much resources the Fund would have to order the Institute of Forests, that they would then also do part of a superstandard service that was never clearly defined in the legislation, to which the Court of Auditors has always warned. So the game was only about how much money the Fund would have to give to the Institute of Forests, so that they would do the work that was written down in Article 50 of the Forest Act, which speaks of it, "taking over the works that were done in the forest if they were co-financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, is the activity of the public forestry service." And I hope there is no doubt that what concessionaires do in state forests is a matter of financing the state budget, and that this authority exists at the Institute of Forests today. And this article tells us that the necessary number of workers from the Institute for Forests is coming to the Fund. If the Institute of Forests finds that its work can be done in a qualitative manner already in this composition, such as under the Forest Act, I do not think there will be a great need for any foresters from the Institute of Forests to move to the Fund at all, because this work can already be done under the applicable law. And this is their job to finally, finally agree that the profession will have real control in the woods. And this 12th article makes it possible. This enables them, and this is now their task if this law is to be adopted to really agree on what the forestry sector will do in the forests. The work can also be taken over by the concessionaires in the forests. But if they don't want to do that, then these workers will go from the fund to the fund, and then fund workers will do this control.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Trust is a beautiful thing, and control and control is even better, and I really thank the applicants for opening Article 12, so that I have some time left to see certain things that Slovenia and Slovenians see on the ground, we can say and highlight and underline once again. The fact is that Slovenia has an excellent, good forestry profession, that this profession has almost 740 people and that if we take from 740 people away 16 to 20 people so that this profession cannot and cannot be abolished. I am sure that the first signs of poor work and management of state forests came directly from the Institute of Forests, which I am personally pleased with, because it is clear that the country endures too little, that ladies and gentlemen have a whole bunch of ideas on how to improve this matter in practice, to upgrade it, I acknowledge once again: indeed, with state forests, it is well managed, but the question that is also attached to public forestry is, at what price. The public forestry service also attaches - at least at the beginning of this debate - to the need for these forests and to make substantial use of them. One of the important effects is their claim that concessionaires systematically prevent the supervision of both forest workers and land foresters of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. By establishing a new independent supervisory service, we will solve this problem. It was obvious that monitoring of forest wood varieties is not carried out, and we discussed this and the computer application and data transfer is already in the experimental phase of operation. The findings were about subcontractors to do most of the work in the forests after the concession. If this is done in accordance with the law, we see nothing in common here, and essentially: the desire to take some samples from foreign forest management after 2016, so as to bid and purchase individual areas free on the market, and from this, for sure, for the state budget, make a substantial amount of money. Many times it is said whether any of the professions is burdened, overloaded; I am sure that this is already large in Slovenia, most of all in direct production, all those with me at the head of the public service, and among them I count the foresters, and in our work we can do and we must do even more. These arguments, what is the excessive burden on Slovenian foresters and that the system of 740 people will collapse if we take 16 people from there, are confirmed by the following information from the report prepared by the profession itself. It notes: it is necessary to reduce the number of local units, the current number of local units is 93, but each local unit has extremely small areas of forests - Predmija, Trnovo, Velika Lašče, Dobre Polje, Ljubno, Gornji Grad, Nazarje, Dravograd, Prevalje, Lovrenc, Lenart, Ormož, so it makes sense to merge them or to re-form them. The Institute for Forests envisaged a reduction in the number of local units from 93 to 69 in the draft new systematisation. 24 units less, and I'm sure that each one of these units that doesn't have enough work to do can miss one forester, and they'll still have 8 foresters extra and plus. Second argument - what is the burden. Reshaping the magazines. After a thorough analysis made by the Institute for Forests, the burden of rebreeding forests ranges from 0.43 to 1.87. The average load, the normal duty should be 1, at the level of the local unit. A specified local unit, at least loaded, has an average load of 0.43. What does that mean? That people only have jobs there for half an eight-hour worker. The other one, the most burdened, has a load of 1.87. But I have not heard that people in the public forestry service would burn out of work, leave because of excessive burdens, especially in wintertime, when it is not necessary too often to go to the field, to some hospital or to some other hospital absence. Taking into account the differences in loads within these local units, this ratio is not only 1 to 4 but it is even greater. They themselves note that such discrepancies are not admissible, while it is also appropriate to eliminate five classes of rebreeded foresters and to form only three classes according to their formal education. These matters could still be dealt with in a long and broad way, and the fact is that the relationship between the fund and the institution has never been defined in detail and has never been precisely defined and we are now working to know exactly what someone is doing. It is known that the public forestry service is supposed to take care of forests, but if the fund does not sign contracts, it does not allocate certain resources, then of course the public forestry service does not cancel it. And those who have Slovenian forests like it most; do not control what meat eaters do to us if there is no extra money, do not match; the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has found a solution, and the link in the last year has been without an additional contract for half the price. €180,000 was saved by one such simple measure. Regarding construction waste in the woods, reporting to the inspection - first of all, we write to the mayors and our employees. Those who are in the woods every day act as if these wastes are not in the woods. The public forestry service, and I consider it good for her, is also willing to take over natural conservation control, but only if there is extra money. However, I think that there are so many reserves in this service in the administration that we need to agree on which part of the less important administration, the paper wars, we can abandon and as an important environmentally protected factor we will also introduce the supervisory function of foresters who are really on the ground every day. As for, once again, the obvious that there will be two foresters in the same forest is about as on the roads, compared with the one who builds and maintains the road, and the policeman who takes care of control and control, how funny it would be if police officers were in charge of construction and maintenance, or vice versa, if they were in charge of traffic control and control. Easy, there are reserves, let the masks fall, let each one do his job hard, and for all of us it will be more.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 12 and the amendment? Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u179	That is all I would say if we were to achieve that the Fund will be truly effective in managing state property in the form of forests and agricultural land, even later when we change the agricultural land law and the forest law in the sense that we will transfer to the management of the Agricultural Land Fund all those forests and agricultural land that the owners do not manage in such a way that all the benefits are obtained from them, it is also necessary to ensure that the Fund has in its composition people who will actually work for the owner or, let us say, the owner of the entire state and then the management property of the private sector, so that there is no doubt about who they are actually working for. If all these ideas had been offered to the Fund and had been implemented much earlier, then of course there would be no doubt that the Institute of Forests would continue to monitor and evaluate the annual sequence carried out by forest managers. However, because he found out what he had to do only when he realized that the Ministry and the government wanted to transfer or take over workers who would perform the tasks performed by the treaty fund, as all appeared to be bad. Because if you were doing them right, you wouldn't have kept listening to the criticism that the concession that the Forest Fund collects is too low. If the forest workers were to do as they now say they can do and the fund is to blame, it was not doing well, and this is a farce over farce. The fund had a contract with the institution every year and the institution has done what we now want to do with the amendment of this law in full compliance with itself. It is usually so that if someone has property, as a rule - we know that we also have bad masters - good lords with him. And if fund workers, foresters, are highly qualified among the best, I hope to claim even the best in Europe, I hope to say that no member of the European Union has as good a forestry service as we have, that is a fact - anyone can convince me otherwise but I am sure that they are actually the best in Europe - then in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests they will do their best to prove that they can survive much more. There's only one thing I could do about it, not with it, but with what I've listened to before, I could fix it. In fact, I've heard twice that the Catholic Church pays many more to foresters with its forests. It's the other way around, ladies and gentlemen, who's gone, it's the other way around! Those who manage forests owned by the Vatican in Slovenia pay much more than concessionaires pay to our Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. It is said that the Vatican or the Catholic Church has much more profits from its forests than the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. And now I just want to ask, this is a rhetorical question, those who were at the teacher, you know what that means, those who were in high school, too, maybe you forgot - that means that this is a question that doesn't need an answer. How much tax does the Catholic Church pay from the profits made by forest management in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss Article 12 and the amendment? Mr. Secretary, please, Dr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! For the first time, I would like to thank you for this very interesting debate, and I think there are quite some interesting proposals that we will take into account in further work. So I would say, we are certainly aware at the Ministry that the Government, by supplementing and amending this law, is taking on a great deal of responsibility. I just think that taking on this responsibility was essential and that things should then be carried on. Article 12 is a minor article for me because you need to know that Article 57 of the Law on Forests clearly states that the fund can actually authorize the institution to carry out certain activities for it or not to authorize it. The fund authorised it, costing between 300 and 750 thousand euros each year to understand each other. In terms of rational management, it is highly likely that the Fund will consider how it will deal with this. On the one hand, as has already been said, this is also in the light of the Human Resources Programme in terms of reducing the number of employees in public institutions by minus two percent, and these 17 are exactly minus 2 percent at the Institute of Forests, that is to say that we are helping, as we are harming, of course, if the institution so decides. I also said that, with regard to this article, with regard to forestry activities, I finally understand this alarm if the law adopted in 1993 is being amended. But now we have entered Europe in the middle of 2009, and a lot has happened, if not the other way, the market has opened up and this is also felt thoroughly in the area of forestry, including in other sectors. In fact, the forestry sector is least protected when it comes to support and, say, subsidies in this area. Therefore, given that we are the third most forested country in Europe, we must carefully consider how to proceed with our forests. That is why the Ministry also commissioned a group of independent experts to understand the situation in the Slovenian forest in the course of this year. Not in Slovenian forestry, but mainly in Slovenian forest. And by chance, we have put in the next year's normative programme also the Law on Forest Change and Supplements to prepare amendments and additions to the concession regulation and some other content are important. For example, a five-year regulatory programme for forestry is being developed. In short, many additions need to be prepared. A key first addition to the agricultural land law, which will also answer questions that I have not been able to answer today because of the short time available to me. The government's been assigned five minutes. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Just for the notice. We all know that the government has announced itself for five minutes and she's got five minutes, and I'm not saying it's the minister's fault, so it wouldn't have been the State Council's fault. Does anyone else want to go to Article 7? No, no, no. Or 12? No, no, no. I am opening the debate on Article 16 and the amendment to Article 16. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I am closing the debate on Article 16 and, since no one else wants to participate in the debate, I am also concluding the debate on the law. The amendments will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. That's why I'm moving on to 21. Period of the day - it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on agricultural land, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Franc Bogovic, to complete the explanation of the Committee's decision. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u183	Hello again! The Committee is at its 11th session, 4. 12. as a parent labour body, Mr Jože Tanko, has considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands, which he has tabled, as we have already heard. It has already been concluded at the College that the short-term procedure will be followed. The committee was attended by representatives of the proposer, namely the SDS, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the representative of the Geodetic Society of Ljubljana. As material, we have also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and once again the opinion of the Council of State, which has also given its position. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, and has no comments on it. In its written opinion, the Government stated that the adoption of the draft law would in fact make it easier to introduce a commotion procedure, but since, in preparing the government proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act, which would regulate the issue of the procedure for the introduction of the Commission, it considers that the amendment submitted is not suitable for further consideration. We have also been informed of the position of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports this bill. We have heard again from the representative of the proposer who presented this solution, saying, a reduction in the percentage of agricultural land per area to which consent should be obtained for the inclusion of over-massation areas from 80% to 67%, including a justification for why it would be right to do so. We have also received further presentations from the Government's opinion, presented by the Minister, stressing that these views are the same as they were in July, when the SDS Group first introduced the content of the law with the same content. It has been further said here that agreement and that this amendment is provided for in the new Agricultural Lands Act, and that a percentage of the government's position is required in the Agricultural Lands Act to adopt other solutions, which will also be implemented in practice: spatial planning, real estate registration, geodetic activities, environmental protection, construction of buildings, including in the area of the reception of commercial areas and other agrarian operations, further changes are envisaged in order to avoid a large number of complaints in the end. These were the views expressed by the Minister and also by the representatives of the Ministry. We have also heard the views of the representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, who agrees and recognises the urgent need for and also the need for this comprehensive regulation of the law. The position on support for this law was further substantiated by the representative of the Council of State. The representative of the Geodesic Society, a company that has been dealing with live comassations for more than 20 years, has carefully demonstrated how this is happening in practice and how the problem of collecting this unnecessary percentage of consent is and that many times this critical point is between these two-thirds and four-fifths, it is between 67 and 80%, including in terms of irregular successions and similar matters, co-ownership and all of this is often a problem. He himself also made several proposals suggesting that in the future these processes of agrarian operations could be managed more effectively. Finally, by majority vote 7:3 the Committee adopted the following decision: The proposal for a law amending the agricultural land law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Robert Hrovat, representative of the law's proponents, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the light of Article 56 of the Agricultural Lands Act, a proposal for the introduction of a comassation procedure may be submitted if the Commission is agreed by the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 80% of the land area in the envisaged area. However, in accordance with the Law on the regulation of premises and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for commercial land in the area of the municipal site plan, the proposal for the introduction of a comassation may be submitted by landowners who own at least 67% of the land area in the area of sale. It is clear that there are illogical and, in practice, important differences that we are trying to resolve with the proposal of the new law by choosing agricultural land owners to be easier and, above all, a more viable solution. All data show that in Slovenia the fragmentation and smallness of farms is extremely critical, as is also pointed out by agricultural experts and farmers who face this problem in practice. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of many initiatives, we have decided to propose to the National Assembly the adoption of the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, which seeks to achieve harmonisation with the Law on the regulation of premises in the field of comassations by proposing a smoother introduction of the comision procedure. A proposal for the initiation of a procedure may be submitted if the Commission agrees with the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 67% of the land in the envisaged area of the Commission. What's a commotion, anyway? The Law on the Regulation of Space of the concept of comassation defines as a plot of land in the area of the envisaged municipal site plan and their redistribution among landowners in the area. In the Real Estate Registration Act, the Commission is defined as a composition of plots having different legal status with regard to property rights and the distribution by composition of the established land fund into new parcels. According to the Agricultural Lands Act, agricultural land is subject to comassation, but also forests, non-walled buildings and other plots in the commercial area and installations on these land. The agricultural parcel is regulated in more detail by the rules on the implementation of agricultural land harvests. In these times, it may not be negligible that the implementation of the proposed law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources, but again in the Slovenian Democratic Party we stress that the law will have positive effects on agricultural policy with the support of MEPs and Members, as pointed out by the Agriculture and Economic Chamber supporting the amendment of the law. As we know that this is a large, broad and diversified membership, we propose that other parliamentary groups decide to support the law. A further reason to support the law is the system for the introduction of commissions in the European Union countries. In all countries where agricultural land is being slaughtered, the Commission shall be supported by appropriate legislation implementing an approach which introduces a statutory compulsory participation in the comassation. Voluntary comassations have become economically ineffective and too long-term, and the possibility of a failure is always high. Well, to conclude. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are disappointed by the proposal for a decision voted by the coalition that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, although the Proposal for a Amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act regulates an easier and, above all, a more viable solution - the introduction of a commotion procedure. Finally, this bill is supported by the State Council, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economics and also by the professional public, which we witnessed at the meeting of the working body. I expect you to change your mind in the coalition and support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The Government's position on the proposal of the working body will be presented by Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go, Minister. Here you go for the payphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm not clean. [[...]] Once again, welcome to Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament and Members. The proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank states among the reasons for the adoption of the law that, in the Republic of Slovenia, fragmentation and smallness of farms are extremely critical, and the size structure and fragmentation are, according to agricultural experts, the two biggest agropolitical problems. That is absolutely true, we agree with that. In Slovenia we have over 3 million plots, the size of our farms is just over 6 hectares and, of course, with such fragmentation, we are very difficult to compete, not only in Slovenia, but in general in the European space. This is precisely why, at the Ministry, we are seriously taking changes and supplementing legislation in the field of active land policy, and we are discussing a proposal for a law today. The Law on Agricultural Lands, I hope that in January it will come to your bench, will certainly be dealt with by the Government and then followed by a series of other content. Therefore, the proposal for a law submitted by the group of Members with Mr Tank at the helm certainly makes one proposal, which undoubtedly makes it easier to carry out the commotion procedure. However, in the execution of the Commissions, which currently takes place in Slovenia 11 and for this purpose we are earmarking €17 million by 2013, of course, of European and our resources, in short, a project that we would like to carry out requires much more systematic and intensive changes if we are to carry out these Commissions. This is also one of the reasons why we regret this, otherwise beneficial change, cannot be supported, as it would not contribute to a substantial simplification of the procedures for the execution of the commissions. In addition to all the complexity of the technical and administrative procedures required by the Commission. Amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, which, in addition to the same change as mentioned by the Group of Members, is thus a reduction of consent from 80 to 67, which is one of the changes, introduces a number of other simplifications in the area of spatial planning, real estate registration, geodetic activities, environmental protection, construction of buildings. Procedural ambiguities regarding agrarian operations are also being addressed and administrative procedures are being reduced, including removal of administrative barriers to traffic. An important emphasis is also placed on provisions relating to comassations and also to one of the proposals of the law that the Government is preparing and is in the final implementation, and the reduction in the scope of consensus - is exactly the same from 80% to 67%. So, without directly objecting to this proposal, unfortunately, it does not contribute to the faster implementation of the commotion procedures, which are quite well announced. For this reason, we conclude this work in the Agricultural Lands Act with all due care and speed as far as possible in all procedures to be carried out and in all the consents to be obtained. For this reason, the Government considers that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands to the extent that it has been submitted is not suitable for further consideration because, as I have already said, it does not solve the procedure for the introduction of the Law on Agricultural Lands in its entirety, as envisaged and is intended to be implemented by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we see the present proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands as a logical, reasonable and necessary measure with a view to solving the problems of fragmentation and the smallness of farms. For such a sizeable structure or fragmentation of the property in Slovenia represents one of the biggest agrarian problems. The proposed amendments should be brought into line with the law on the regulation of space in the field of comassations if additional measures were to be implemented. It is therefore possible to make a proposal, as mentioned by Mr Minister, including with regard to other measures in the opening of the commotion procedure, if the Commission now agrees with the new 67% of the landowners, which is certainly a positive shift from the previous 80%. However, it would also benefit from changes in the simplification of the procedures for the introduction of commissions, as well as certain additions to the changes in spatial planning legislation, and some other measures such as the Minister has already listed, which we fully agree with. Short-term administrative procedures would also be useful to speed up the procedures for the execution of the commissions themselves. Despite the urgency and good intentions of the proposed amendments, new issues and dilemmas are also being raised at the same time. Thus, according to the laws and regulations in force so far, the dynamics and efficiency of the comitology procedures have been quite different across the comitology areas across Slovenia. The reasons for this are very different factors, such as the specificity of the comassation area itself, the mentality of the population or landowners, the agility and ability of the actors in the proceedings and so on, not to mention further. Thus, for example, in the area of the Murska Sobota Administrative Unit, during the period of validity of the current law, they were able to introduce a comitology procedure in more than 25 comitology areas and on the surface of more than 4,500 hectares, which is certainly a remarkable achievement, despite the regulation of 80% of the necessary consent of the owners of agricultural land. However, it is also worth noting that these procedures are de facto concluded. So the new situation is entered into the land book. However, in the area of the administrative unit Murska Sobota, responsible persons are reminded of the possibility of increasing the number of complaints and dissatisfaction with the participants already at the stage of the initiation of the commotion procedure and, consequently, the duration of the procedure, the higher costs and so on. All of this legitimately raises the fear that this might have the very opposite effect; it is said that we would not have achieved a better ownership structure and larger agricultural parcels, but would have achieved more and more unregulated ownership conditions in the land book due to the longevity of the settlement of complaints by the Commission’s participants. The purpose of the new law is to prevent this, or time will show its own. Fortunately, however, it is hoped that later a more complex and systematic approach will be taken to amending the law, so that other measures will also be introduced to facilitate and shorten the commotion procedures and thus achieve their objective and purpose in this regard. Despite the concerns and reservations mentioned above, we will still support the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a pleasant greeting to all in attendance! I am glad that we have found one topic where there are virtually no substantive differences in the National Assembly. We all recognise that the situation in the area of agricultural land is unenviable. The Minister has presented several times, I would say, to the heart of the statistics and analysis of agricultural data. We are also concerned about these worrying facts in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and we are aware of the actual situation. We have highlighted them in our electoral programme and advocated an early legal intervention in this markedly negative trend in the area of agricultural land. It is also aware of its responsibilities that we are an important part of the ruling coalition, which is why the coalition agreement envisages the preparation of a new Law on Agricultural Lands and the preparation of a programme to reduce the growth of agricultural land. One of the most important measures in this area is, for sure, the composition of the land with which the land is rounded up and thus improves the spatial structure of Slovenian agricultural land. We support these changes in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We have also had a good debate on the Committee on Agriculture, and there has been an assessment that the law, despite a good initiative that saves only a fraction of the commotion story, is not yet ripe for further consideration. The Ministry's commitment to seeing the light of the world in the first two months of the following year has been made clear and will also contain a solution, a coincidence or no coincidence that the number to the point is the same as the opposition's colleagues rightly proposed, and I am sure that at least in this part of the story we will be united. However, it is important to clarify why we have assessed on the Committee that only a change in this piece in the law is not sufficient. I must thank and congratulate the chairman of the committee for bringing to the committee a man, an expert who has known this story for many years and described to us the calvary of one of Slovenia's agriculturally important municipalities. A guest, an expert in this field, has warned us in particular about this. First, which includes a proposal from today's proposing that a percentage of consent should be changed to introduce a bargaining procedure from 80% to 67%. Secondly, it is very important to allow the appointment of representatives or guardians for unknown persons to die before the decision to initiate a commotion procedure, similar to that of individual geodetic services, since the commotion is essentially one large sum, one whole of geodetic services. Third important statement, introduce an administrative fee to lodge a complaint on the decision to initiate the commotion procedure. This would certainly deter landowners from writing complaints just because they can write them and because it costs them nothing and effectively impedes this necessary procedure. Next. All landowners who are against the introduction of the comassation procedure are prevented from drawing funds from the municipal invitations to promote agriculture, buying new machinery, equipment and other things that we sign up to the municipalities on regular calls, as well as agri-technical measures, construction of barns and other things. Then all landowners who are opposed to the imposition of the comassation procedure shall terminate the subsidy period and prevent the application of measures financed by the European Union and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and raise the subsidy threshold. Finally, not least due to the proposed verification of the compliance of the Commission with the planning documents and the consistency of the statements proposed at the time of the introduction of the land-book-book-based state of the land, but there is a proposal for a longer period for the adoption of the decision on the introduction of the Commission as specified by the ZUP. We know that the deadline in the ZUP is 60 days from the full application, and the proposal is that this deadline be extended to a reasonable 120 days and that it would thus be given legislation that will work in practice, will be effective and that Slovenian agriculture with a fragmented ownership structure first needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you for your word and a nice welcome once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the parliamentary group, we find that we have already rejected the same bill in this mandate, and at that time we have pointed out that this law, and also in the previous one, is a problem because it does not solve the whole process of carrying out the commotion. The change in the threshold for agreement on the bargaining from 80 to 67% is one of the necessary steps, which, by the way, allows faster execution of the commotion, but only one of those that is needed for the commotion to actually take place faster. In addition, the Government is preparing an amendment to the agricultural land law, which will also include this percentage in the content of the government proposal and will, of course, be taken into account there. It should be noted that the procedure for carrying out the comassation must also take into account changes relating to the amended legislation in the area of spatial planning, real estate recording, geodetic activities, environmental protection and building. All of this needs to be incorporated into the Agricultural Lands Act if we want to be really more efficient in the implementation of the Commission than is possible today. This law does not contain this, so we do not support it in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. One of the last meetings of the European Union's agricultural ministers also discussed the elimination of bureaucratic barriers to agriculture. And what's a bigger bureaucratic obstacle than if there's two different kinds of procedures in two laws. In our case of compromises, this is the consent of the owners, which is referred to in one law as 80% consent and the other as 67%. And in the light of this finding, the Law on Agricultural Lands is in force to support or if it is not supported, certainly to hold the Minister to his word that he will draft a new law. At the same time, the European Union subsidises comassations in some countries, both in Poland and in the Baltic States. I would like to know whether Slovenia has also run for these funds, which have helped with the commotion procedures, and whether it will acquire them. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we have also proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl, you probably do not expect an answer today because it is not possible in this procedure, but certainly on the working body. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u197	Once again, everyone, hello. It is nice to be in Parliament when we agree on matters and when we talk about the procedures or conditions for the introduction of the compromises, we see that it is generally agreed that this percentage of land should be reduced from 80% to 67%. I think that, after a really substantive debate on this subject, and even when we are familiar with this topic, we have also examined very carefully what the problems of the Commission are and what should be done, in addition to the change in this percentage, in order to improve this unique structure of these small Slovenian farms and also cut to a large number of parcels as soon as possible. That's why, I think, this unified support is good, but in the end, we always get to that "who-who." In this case, it is "if" that we want and that the ministry is convinced and we see that the coalition is also convinced that it is right to settle this in a common, comprehensive law and that this area is not exempt from the Agricultural Lands Act. I think that, in this case and also in the Slovenian People's Party, we would think that it would be sober to consider this matter, whether it is not possible to make the matter of the Agricultural Lands Act so difficult that these predictions, which were first in the autumn, the Minister said today that it would be at a meeting in January, a representative of one of the coalition parties said that it would be in February and, according to me, known data, in coordinating this law, the Law on Agricultural Lands, which fundamentally interferes with spatial planning, is also trying to protect agricultural land, which is very difficult in intersectoral coordination. In addition to spatial planning, the substance of this law is also a growing agricultural land management, an experiment where both the right to property and the right to a treated land are faced in some way. In this law there are also difficult timetables for the transport of agricultural land and a number of other provisions, which I think will probably take a long time to harmonise first within the government's coalition procedure and I think later in the National Assembly itself. Therefore, it could also be worth listening to what was proposed last time at a meeting with the President of the State, which also opened up the topic, so that one of these could be looked at separately on the spot, to accept the offer of a hand by the opposition, and perhaps some weakness, which is certainly still possible at this percentage, could also be so premeditated that this law can be supplemented, to be defined in the part concerning agri-technical operations, to reduce the infested surfaces, to hydro-metelioration, to commissariacation and to add to the law proposed by the opposition in this case, and to resolve one part of the necessary part in the regulation of land law before the other comprehensive law. In this part I should also add that Slovenia is also a beneficiary of the use of these funds in relation to the funds for the Commission and that in some environments such comassation procedures are already in place, but sometimes these obstacles are a problem to these funds, because you do not arrive at the introduction of the area of the Commission without being able to reach it. To this end, I think that this bill has also been tabled, could be supplemented and, by 2013, according to this period of financial perspective, could also be more successful in mobilising European funds while also rounding up the much-neededly fragmented agricultural property. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support, support, and think that both the Government and the coalition are further delaying the opportunity to adopt the necessary law in a constructive dialogue with their complements once in a hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. And on my part, a nice hello. We have before us the law proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, which has the same content as the law in which we have already dealt with the content in July. We have already said that the scope presented is too small and is not suitable for further consideration. In our parliamentary group, we have said that we do not support the proposed law and we remain in this opinion this time. We understand the intention of the proposer, and at the same time we believe that the proposal is good, but unfortunately it is not comprehensive. Therefore, at this point, let us recall that the Government is preparing a novelty of the Agricultural Lands Act, which will simplify the process of commissioning the Commission and provide the necessary material among others. At the same time, the expected proposal reduces the threshold for the execution of the Commission from 80% to 67%, as set out in the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Rules on the execution of the Commission, while at the same time bringing some other solutions that are very important for the further management of agricultural land and consequently for the development of local communities. For this reason, I am joining the Government and the labour body's opinion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Committee's proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS OF THE REGISTRATION LAW OF THE EXTERNAL PARTNER COMMUNITY, EXTERNAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank in relation to this bill by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank with a proposal for a review and adoption of a bill following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal should be dealt with in a simplified manner and was therefore examined by the Committee on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Government and the opinion of the Council of State and a written statement from the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights. During the course of business, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. The representative of the applicants, co-signatory of the proposed France Cukjat Act, pointed out in the introductory explanation that, with the proposal of the law, the applicants followed the abolition of the non-compliance of Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community, which was established by a decision of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the proposed amendment of the law, the representative of the Government said that the Government did not support that proposal because it did not fully resolve the decision of the Constitutional Court. She also mentioned that the Government is preparing a comprehensive solution to this problem, which will be regulated in the family code. In the presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the first paragraph of Article 8 of the Law provides that the partners have the right to inherit also at the share of the common assets after the deceased partner. The draft law tabled by the applicants does not amend this point of the law accordingly and is therefore not sufficient. The representative of the Council of State said that they did not support the bill because it did not solve the substantive problems of the registered same-sex partnership. In the debate, some members of the Committee objected to the opinion of the Government and tried to take into account both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government. Most Members agreed that the proposed solution was not sufficient and therefore agreed that the issue under consideration would be fully addressed in the proposal for a family code. Thus, the Committee concluded after the discussion that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Francet Tsukati for the opening presentation of the views on the proposal of the mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for amendments to the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community follows a decision of the Constitutional Court on 2 July 2009, which concluded that Article 22 of the Law on the same-sex partnership community is inconsistent with the Constitution, since the succession of special and common assets of the partners is treated differently. This is inappropriate, since in the event of an inheritance on the basis of a will, the same sex partner is not entitled to the necessary share. The Constitutional Court further found that, in the area of property relations between the duration of the registered community, the law had already taken over the property regime between spouses in the Marriage and Family Relations Act and had regulated the obligation of a partner who did not have sufficient means of survival, but had not legislated the alleged will of the deceased partner, even if he did not make an inheritance will, to provide economic care for the surviving partner. The Constitutional Court’s decision is based on the assessment that the registered partnership is a relationship similar to that of the marriage community, because it is also characterised by the stable relationship of two persons close to each other, respect each other, trust each other, help each other and support each other. Under Article 33 of the Constitution, the right to inherit human rights is a right and Article 14 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination in the exercise of human rights in the light of individual personal circumstances, including sexual orientation. It follows that the mutual succession of same-sex partners must be similarly regulated as inheritance between spouses. The Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership was obviously intended at the time, when adopting the property situation of the same-sex partners, to fully regulate, as is the case with the marriage, but was not sufficiently attentive to all the specificities of inheritance. It is therefore necessary to amend the law, irrespective of the request of the Constitutional Court. Since the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out the shortcomings of our proposal, the Slovenian People's Party has drafted an amendment that corrects this weakness. It is therefore incomprehensible that the amendment committee has rejected and proposes a decision to reject the entire proposal following the request of the Constitutional Court. However, I expect the National Assembly to reject the rejection proposal and to return the proposal to the Committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for the Government's position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u205	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament. The government is 19. 11. 2009 adopted an opinion on the proposal for a law amending the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. As motions, they state that they wish, by means of a proposal for a law, to comply with the finding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 2. Seven. 2009 eliminates the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution with regard to the regulation of the legal situation of same-sex partnerships in the area of succession. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law because it is insufficiently prepared because it does not provide the right solutions, but in particular because the applicant will not achieve the intended objective with it. The proposed amendment to Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships would only regulate the legal status of same-sex partnerships, but not entirely, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to do with the proposal of the Family Code. This will take full account of the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia that the distinction based on sexual orientation as a personal circumstance is not permitted. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that Article 1 of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community is unclear. The proposer proposes that the general rules on inheritance be applied to the succession between partners of registered same-sex partnerships, as is the case with the succession between spouses in the marriage relationship and the long-term living community of men and women. However, in accordance with the law on succession, the rules on succession applicable to spouses apply only if there are no reasons why a marriage between a man and a woman who has lived for a long time and who has not entered into a marriage relationship would be null and void. Since the proposal for a law in Article 1 of this additional condition does not contain an additional condition, the adoption of such a provision would actually lead to a lack of clarity in the legal regime, as this proposal would not be regulated in the same way as in the succession law. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also recalls the special arrangement of succession in the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which would make it necessary to establish the same validity for the succession of partners of the registered same-sex partnership as for spouses, including with regard to specific rules on succession. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also notes that the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership in Article 8 which regulates the scope of rights and obligations provides that partners have, on the basis of Community registration,, among other things the right to inherit the share of common assets after the deceased partner. In fact, the proposed regulation of this Article does not change. Thus, the general rules on succession could apply only to inheritance on the share of the common property, but not on personal property, which in essence meant that constitutional non-compliance was not eliminated by a decision of the Constitutional Court. With the proposed amendments, which were tabled at the meeting itself, even in the opinion of the legislative service, we probably could not arrange things in a comprehensive manner, and this shows clearly how important it is to approach this issue in a comprehensive manner. Every time we partially eliminate the problem of discrimination, it can be that one of the specific provisions laid down in individual laws is released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups, Ljubo Germič has the floor to present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership. Here, of course, it is not against the motioner, i.e. the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, not to try to solve the problem that is actually left on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision that this law is inconsistent with the rest, but we believe that the solutions proposed in this law do not solve the set objective that the applicants want to place in law with their proposal. The applicants are therefore to follow the non-compliance of Article 22 of the Registration Act with the same-sex partner community established by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which also set a six-month deadline for its abolition. Both the proposer and the underlying objective state the legal situation of the same-sex partnership in the area of succession. The Constitutional Court has found that there are substantial differences between the regimes of succession between spouses and same-sex partners. In our view, the applicants want to make arrangements quickly, and this is what is known about the poorly prepared solution to the content of the articles. We would, of course, like to point out that this is actually a solution to the content in two articles. Therefore, in the LDS, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as the proposaler is in his warmth for respect of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is, of course, to be commended in view of the applicant's practice so far, that he is, of course, here many times and represents a different position and has been retained in relation to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions. He therefore forgot Article 8 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership, which provides that the partners have, inter alia, the right to inherit the share of the joint assets after the deceased partner. As this provision does not change and cannot be amended in the legislative procedure followed by an amendment under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the law does not achieve the desired objective. With the proposed amendment to Article 22, under which the general rules of succession would apply to inheritance, which do not specify any difference in the succession of special and common assets, and with the proposed deletion of Article 23, the right provided for in Article 8 of the basic law would therefore remain in force. Here, of course, we reiterate the fact that such a clear position has also been expressed by the Legal and Legislative Service, we also point out that the State Council has expressed its opposition to this law, and this is also the position presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, I can only conclude that this is a correction of the provisions of the law which are not actually regulated. Therefore, the text of a law which does not eliminate the non-compliance referred to in the Constitutional Court decision and that the applicant does not achieve the desired objective. Here, too, we would like to highlight the fact that the Government has already presented the text of the new family code, in which this issue should be fully addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Dr Ana Mrak Kopač, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a law to supplement and amend the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community, submitted after a reduced procedure, took its legislative course at a time when it was perfectly clear that there was a family code in preparation, which was intended to resolve all the same family and partner relations in an appropriate substantive manner. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we cannot agree with the proposal that they would like to respond with their proposal to the Constitutional Court's opinion and thus help the coalition to eliminate one of the constitutional inconsistencies. The solution they are proposing does not in any way address the fundamental substantive issues related to the relationship between two persons of the same sex. Just as these matters were regulated by the Law on Registration of the Same-Sex Partnerships, they had already encountered disapproval at the time of the adoption of the law and had warned that they would not pass on a constitutional judgment. This happened at the time of the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 22, where, in fact, it was already completely clear in advance that a different verdict than that adopted by the Constitutional Court was not even expected. The Constitutional Court adopted a decision establishing, in three elements, an inappropriate system of succession and discriminatory arrangements. The Constitutional Court ordered the legislator to abolish this non-constitutionality within six months and, during that time, a reference to the legal provisions to be applied to inheritance. Once again, the Constitutional Court has found that the distinction based on sexual orientation as personal circumstances is inadmissible. It is therefore a clear position of the Constitutional Court that article 14 of the Constitution, which does not allow discrimination, must be fully respected and enforced. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is necessary to adopt such legal bases as will fully follow this position of the Constitutional Court. And at this point, the Social Democrats believe that these requirements have been fully implemented in the proposed family code. In the family code, relations between two adults or between adults and children are regulated so that no elements of discrimination can be found. We will therefore support the proposed decision of the Committee and join those who believe that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community, submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, cannot say that the objective set by this Group of Members has been achieved and enshrined in the proposal cannot therefore be accepted. Notwithstanding the different views on the regulation of relations between persons of the same sex, at least this can be found to be difficult to attribute to this proposal benevolence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr France Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you again, Mr President. The government's rejection of our proposal cannot be understood without the proposed family code with which the Pahor's Government wants to resolve this issue by bringing the marriage community, this is the family, as we now understand it, completely equal to the same-sex partnership community. As the Constitutional Court has already said six months ago, it is necessary to regulate inheritance between same-sex partners in the same way as it does in the same way as in the same way as in the same-sex union, because, as the Constitutional Court says, the relationship between same-sex partners is similar to that between husband and wife, because the same-sex community is characterized by a stable relationship between two people close to each other, respect each other, trust each other, help each other and support each other. The same sex and marriage are alike and not the same. They are similar in a relationship that fully fulfils the same sex, not the marriage community. The marital community of husbands and wives is characterized by another very important dimension. This is a natural biological orientation towards the conception and birth of a child. Marriage is about creating the most natural nest created by biological parents for their offspring. Finally, it's the base cell of the national reproduction and the child's safety. Therefore, and only for that reason, the Constitution and the law recognise the special protection of mothers and fathers or families and marriages, of particular social importance. At least that's what it's been like so far. In this dimension of the biological potential, the same-sex partnership and the marriage community will never be able and women will never be the same, let alone the same. And the Constitutional Court says in its decision, I quote: "If the situations we compare are not essentially the same, we cannot talk about non-constitutional discrimination". Such a Constitutional Court. Different treatment between the same sex and the same marriage does not constitute discrimination. The unification of these communities, provided for by the family code, has no legal justification, but it is the will of some strange policy. It is unacceptable that the Constitutional Court’s opinion on the similarity of this community with regard to the succession of Pahor’s Government is changing to equality with regard to everything, although the same-sex community will never be the same as the family in terms of reproductive potential. The decision of the Government or coalition not to resolve the issue of the succession of same-sex partners in the Law on the Registration of the Same-sex Partnership, as proposed, but in the Family Code, clearly serves to prevent the predicted referendum on the code by which the Pahor government wants to equalize both communities or families to the level of the same-sex community, which cannot enjoy special protection and social importance because it does not have reproductive potential. Clearly, then, we'll be dealing again with the sublime abuse of law. We can only hope that the Constitutional Court will find that the right to a referendum is also an important constitutional right and that even if the family code at the referendum falls, the Constitutional Court's decision can be implemented at any time, if not later today, if there is sufficient political will in the coalition. We therefore hope that to such abuses of law as is predicted, the Constitutional Court will not impose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In its explanation, the bill was allegedly based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, where it notes that the existing Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships does not comply with the Constitution and is therefore intended to accede to its amendment in order to abolish unconstitutionality. The fundamental objective is to regulate the legal situation of same-sex partnerships in the area of succession. It must be said, however, that this article 22 was the only one in which the Constitutional Court pleaded because it was the only one to whom the complaint was brought, but not the others, because it was the most obvious and the applicants decided as they had decided. Subject to the Constitutional Court’s decision on succession, which I will not repeat, it is necessary to state the findings of the Constitutional Court, which were sought by the applicants to avoid that the registered partnership is a relationship similar to that of the legal or non-legislative community. We have already talked about the essential characteristics: the stable connections of two people who are close and who help and support each other. The Constitutional Court found that, in view of the actual situation, there was a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, which takes sexual orientation as a circumstance under which distinction is prohibited. The same applies to the European Court of Human Rights. The Government itself states that the Constitutional Court has found that a different succession regime between same-sex partners is an intervention into the right of initiators to non-discriminatory treatment. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service also stated that investors do not resolve what they would like to resolve with this proposal. It has already been mentioned that Article 8 of this Law has not been amended in this amendment, but only provides for the right of inheritance on the share of the common property, not on the share of the special property. And even if, as suggested by the Committee, the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, which, which is commendable on their part, proposed that a special rule on succession in the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies should also apply to registered same-sex partners, they would not eliminate this non-compliance with the Constitution. The applicants know well, and their first-signed, as a great expert in the Rules of Procedure, at least if we conclude by the number of its business interventions at the meetings of the National Assembly, it is also possible to know that the Article which is closed cannot be amended in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure. In short, the proposed law does not solve what is supposed to be saved. We are therefore coalition partners in the unanimous view that this issue needs to be fully regulated in the family code, which will fully comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We are convinced that this proposed amendment would mean only partial regulation of the problem and would in some way be the continuation of some segregation legislation that cannot possibly be fair because it will always forget some part of certain rights. These rights must, however, be regulated in an inclusive manner. That is what I would also call for all those who really want to see this non-conformity with the Constitution abolished in order to support the proposal of the mother's labour force, later to join in supporting the family code, which does not compare the family with the same-sex community. And this applies to all same-sex communities, both those who can benefit from their biological potential by means of medicine abroad, like those same-sex communities that cannot exploit this biological potential of procreation. However, it equates these same-sex communities with diverse communities, both those who take advantage of their biological potential, as well as those who do it with medical care, as well as those diverse communities that fail to exploit this biological potential because they choose or cannot. Just as we respect the rights of each of us to take advantage of our biological potential, or simply commit ourselves differently and decide not to do so. I think that this concept of human rights is the reason why, of course, the law on the registration of the same-sex partnership, as well as this novel, has occurred in one fundamental different understanding of what human rights should be. I hope that we will all collectively reject this proposed novel and support the family code, which is the only one in a just, dignified, humane way that saves the rights of all of us, and none of us takes any rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will postpone the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposal of the law as it follows a constitutional decision. However, the proposal provides in the new Article 22 for the succession of registered partners to be subject to the general rules on succession as applicable to the succession between spouses in the marriage relationship and the long-term living community of men and women. At the same time, the draft law deletes Article 23 of the Law amending the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community, which provides for the non-existence and loss of the right of succession, since it is no longer necessary to apply the general rules on succession. We believe in the good purpose of the applicants, so we have proposed an amendment to the Committee on the basis of a comment by the Legal and Legislative Service in order to remedy the disagreement with Article 8. The general rules on inheritance do not differ between the inheritance of special and common assets, but they also regulate the succession of both types of assets. In addition, we believe that there is no reason why the same-sex partners should not inherit equally under special rules, such as the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies. The adoption of amendments to this law would call aside the need for this constitutional decision and inheritance to be regulated in the family code, since in our opinion the same sex community does not belong to it. The Constitutional Court finds that communities are similar in substance and not in reality. Only Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership has been repealed. It is certain that communities differ in the essential component: marriage and family is intended primarily for the care of children together, and it is significantly different from the same-sex community, where, due to the nature of the community, the fact that children cannot have children together. We do not agree with the Government's explanation, which misinterprets the Constitutional Court's decision in this work, both in the family code and in the interpretation of the opinion of this law, and wrongly equates this community with the marriage union in fact, not only in the regulation of legal matters, for which the Constitutional Court has used a comparison. The maintenance of the institution of marriage as a community of husbands and wives is concluded by the strictest standard of human rights protection at home and in the world. The right to marriage is in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in a language and systematic manner comparable to that of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, so there are no real or legal reasons to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group agrees with the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The reason for rejecting the amendment of the law, which seeks to address the issue of the succession of same-sex partners in such a way as to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, is very clear. The proposer undertook to amend the law with the aim of abolishing the unconstitutional nature of article 22 of the Law somewhat superficially, since the law was still constitutionally valid despite possible confirmation. The applicant did not foresee that, in addition to the amendments to Article 22, Article 8 of the basic law was necessary. Of course, in the parliamentary group, we see no point in such superficial changes, which are only in a partial solution to the problem. Even in view of the fact that the legal situation of the same-sex partnership community will be fully regulated in the family code, if adopted, of course, we agree that we do not support this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community is acceptable to us and will be supported in the Slovenian National Party. In a way, I welcome the courage of the applicants to even hope and to propose such a proposal, for I myself, because of the open debate in the National Assembly, have even landed in an international court in Strasbourg, and this community is not sufficient for me to have a constitutional opinion. To talk about open issues, which in some ways are given too much attention by both the Government and the state in these times, is now unfounded and wasteful. 100,000 are unemployed, and it would be better if we discussed today how we will create new jobs, and we accept this as a self-sustaining necessity. On 22 June 2005, the National Assembly adopted a law on the registration of same-sex partnerships at its 7th regular session, and the Constitutional Court subsequently adopted 17. On 7th this year, it found in its statement that Article 22 is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And what we have before us today essentially eliminates this non-compliance and regulates the legal position of same-sex partner communities in the area of succession. I don't know, and I don't understand why the government forces family law. It may be because it follows the likeliness and promise it has made that it will also include the possibility of adopting children and that it will sell them for a fundamental solution that will fully solve the problem. In 2005, I in the National Assembly put forward a sentence for this community, which I will also repeat today, that there is probably no mother or father in this Chamber who would like to have such a defined child. Probably not. If it is and if it happens, we have to deal with it. The rights we grant must be weighed. I have no objection to the fact that the so-called same-sex partnerships live in a common life, a common space, that they are married and so on. However, we need to distinguish between what is a family and what is an same - sex partnership and what we can do as a deep pain to a child adopted in such a family. How despised this child will be, no one wants to talk about it in the National Assembly. When we look at European comparability in this proposed marriage solution, you have this Germany, which has the right solution, following this example Sweden, France and, finally, European comparability. However, since you have promised something more, you will reject this and, of course, in another marriage that you will call a family marriage, you will want to cause injustice to those who cannot defend themselves. They're kids. If that happens, there will be a new referendum. And at the referendum, the Slovenian general public will decide whether or not you representatives of the government have done the right thing. I believe that this law will not see the light of reality. And if you try so hard to get him to realize implementation. Why? Simply because there are too many families that don't really want to put themselves in a less reputable position. Once again, we do not oppose the registration of the same-sex partnership. We do not oppose living in such communities, but do not interfere, for God's sake, with the children, with the families involved. As has already been said, it is entirely satisfactory for what the Constitutional Court wrote down 17. Seven. 2009: "In this article, which we are correcting and by which we are essentially eliminating the impossibility of inheritance, when we are also transferring this right to children, if such a partner has had these children." I see no reason for the government to insist on its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on deceased and invalidity insurance, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Jacob the Intercessor. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and persons with disabilities propose to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for a further explanation of the draft decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u221	Good-bye again. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Jacob the Presector, proposing that it be dealt with in a reduced manner. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the State Council participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Government and an opinion from the Council of State. During the course of business, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. The representative of the applicants, Mr Jakob Preseknik, presented the purpose of the law and the proposed legal solution in the introductory explanation of the articles. According to him, the recognition of the annual allowance to all farmers, including those who have benefited from pensions under the previous Act on the Age Insurance of Farmers and those who have been insured for a narrower range of rights, is intended to give effect to the fundamental principle of solidarity and reciprocity on which the pension system is based. Discrimination against farmers or farmers’ insurers, who, despite having done hard and important work their whole lives, are expected to receive pensions that are often below the poverty line. In an explanation for the Government's opinion, the Government's representative, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, said that the proposed solution was inappropriate and the law or proposal for legislation was supported by a representative of the Council of State. Having regard to the opinion of the Government, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure, first discussed and decided on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on this proposal for a decision, some members of the Committee felt that the law submitted should be adopted despite the negative opinion of the Government. They also considered that farmers, beneficiaries and recipients of pensions, who were largely insured for a narrower scope of entitlements or beneficiaries of pensions under the previous Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers, were equally entitled to an annual allowance to improve the social situation of pensioners. Some debaters, however, stressed the reasons why the proposed law was not acceptable, according to their assessment. In particular, it has been pointed out that the proposed amendment to the law interferes with the integrated legal system of pension and disability insurance, in particular in the scheme of financing the system, which is, by its nature, a system of social security and not a system of social security or the provision of minimum social security. After the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Mr Guid Kres, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The detailed explanation of the law is in writing and allow me to give the most important emphasis on behalf of the members of the Slovenian People's Party. We have proposed a short-term treatment because it is only a minor amendment to the law. Under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, in Article 8 and 136.b, by supplementing the articles, we provide for an exception which would allow the receipt of an annual allowance also for farmers, pensioners who were insured for a narrower range of rights, and in particular pensioners under the 1979 Age Insurance Act, whose pensions amount to only 227.60 euros because they represent only 35% of the lowest pension base. The aim of the law is to improve the social situation of the recipients of the lowest pensions. We want to align the rights of the lowest pension recipients with other pensioners, who also receive low pensions and who can run for this supplement, because we know that the poverty threshold is set below €495 and a new threshold of €560. Let me also mention the assessment of the financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. As a result of the implementation of this Act, payments from pension and disability insurance will be increased. Given the well-known number of pensioners after the age insurance of farmers, there were 2,302 and 281 fighters in January, and according to this year's applicable amount of allowances, farmers will be entitled to a lower amount and other beneficiaries to a higher amount of annual allowance, an annual payment amount of €909,938 would be required in 2010, which does not seem to be a large number. Given the trends in the rapid decline in the number of these pensioners, even fewer funds will be needed in 2011. In view of the envisaged reform of the pension system, it is therefore only a two-year period. We would like to point out that, like the protective allowance, the annual allowance is essentially a social contribution to the lowest pensions. Elephants of solidarity, not at the level of paid contributions, therefore it is incomprehensible that these farmers are exempt and do not receive this. We have also prepared proposals for amendments with regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the budget for the necessary funds. But it was all, unfortunately, rejected. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the number of beneficiaries of these pensions will be reduced according to trends. However, it will decrease significantly in the coming years. Information that this novelty is not appropriate. But here I would say that human solidarity and willingness to correct mistakes from the past are primarily on the test. And everyone could contribute in this way to improving the material state of this, I can say, a small number of people who are now living and working on farms, and certainly very much these people are also trying to keep these farms as long as they are preserved, because you need to know that farms are failing every day, and these older people, when they have been working on this farm in the past, have kept these farms on their feet, are also, we can say, with not as good physical strength as they have been in their youth, and they would still benefit from this supplement. By working on the farm, the economy on the farm can no longer gain this disadvantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak for presentation of the Government's position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all, Mr President and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The basic principle of pension and disability insurance is that the rights derive from work. This principle is characterised by the fact that the insurance work or payment for it is the basis for the amount of contributions and the extent of the rights arising therefrom. In a very important but only second place, the principle of reciprocity and solidarity is laid down in pension insurance, which also provides for material and social security for those insured who, given their contribution and conditions for objective reasons, could not guarantee a general level of social security. In a system in a country which is a social state after the Constitution, the existential minimum is provided primarily by a social assistance system and not by a social insurance system. The right to an annual allowance, which is also intended to be granted to farmers who have not paid contributions, is fully based on the contributions paid. This clearly leads to the conclusion that the principle of solidarity in the broad sense of the word cannot be applied in ensuring the right to an annual supplement, since it is not a right to provide basic social security. The right to an annual allowance is, by its nature, comparable to the right to regression as employees have. As the regression is recognised for all employees, the annual allowance is also recognised to all pensioners who are included in the pension and disability insurance scheme for the full scope of the rights, and not only to those who are recipients of the lowest pensions. Therefore, the right to an annual supplement despite the word synonym cannot be equated either with the nature of the protective allowance or with the nature of the single pension allowance paid. The proposal for a law under consideration today is intended to give greater rights to a category of pension recipients, namely farmers on the so-called basis of age insurance to farmers and those farmers who have been included in the pension scheme, but only for a narrower scope of entitlements. As a result of their contribution to the development of the capacity or ability to pay contributions through the pension and other insurance schemes, the country shall provide solidarity with half of the contributions paid by the other insurers for their insurance. Farmers do not pay the employer’s contribution, as this part is covered by the State. It is not irrelevant to point out that this proposal would discriminate against all insured persons and pensioners who were insured for the right to an annual allowance as they paid contributions for it. However, the additional discriminatory group is those who have paid lower-level contributions and still more than farmers, and this right would not be recognised by this proposal. With regard to the estimated financial implications, it should be pointed out that the assessment takes into account only the number of farmers insured after the age of insurance of farmers, but not the category of voluntarily insured farmers for a narrower range of rights, which is significantly higher. Although this is of secondary importance, it still needs to be highlighted. For these reasons, the system's interpretation and, in particular, the introduction of discrimination within the pension system itself, to insurers who pay contributions and are guaranteed equal rights, the Government opposes and does not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dejan Levanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was tabled in the procedure by a group of Members, is primarily intended to improve the situation of so-called pensioners. The bill is related to the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on a Protection Supplement, which we discussed on Wednesday here in the National Assembly. In essence, the proposer wants pensioners to be granted the right to an annual allowance under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers and those farmers who have been insured for a higher level of entitlement. The proposal seems to be attractive at the very first moment, but for the same reasons as the proposal for a law supplementing the Protection Supplement Act is unacceptable. In the case of full or narrower rights insurance, the fact that it is a voluntary decision is crucial, first of all. A farmer who voluntarily participates in insurance selects the basis from which he will pay his contributions. The lowest possible base is guaranteed wages and the limit between the lower and the full range of rights is set at half the amount of 60% of the average wage. In practice, this means that a farmer has to pay approximately EUR 66 per month for the full amount of pension entitlements, as far as the employee’s contribution is concerned, while the employer’s contribution in this case is covered by the state budget. Insurance for a narrower range of rights is a special form of insurance we know by which an insured person acquires the right to an old, disabled, widowed or family pension. For all those who have been insured for more than half of the total pension age, the law expressly specifies which rights do not belong to them in this case. The decision to provide for a narrower scope of entitlements in this context constitutes a deliberate waiver of certain pension rights. Although the proposed law, which is the law before us, may at first sight be acceptable to a particular group, in terms of fairness to those farmers who have voluntarily opted for full rights insurance and have also paid higher contributions, as well as to other non-farmers who have been insured for a narrower range of rights. The bill of this group of people does not include, and this, of course, undermines the system of justice. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are always very sensitive to the social situation of individual groups, as we have already said on Wednesday, when we have dealt with a similar law, and therefore every decision in this regard is well considered. We want all the people of our country to live in prosperity and unfortunately we are at this moment, and especially this moment of society with limited resources that we create and then we can continue to share. When we talk about pensions, especially pensions in the face of urgent solidarity, we cannot neglect justice and neglect the amount of individual contributions paid. For farmers, solidarity already prevails, which is linked to the special importance that their work has for our society. Further interference with this pension benefit ratio cannot be merely partial, that is, partly because it can undermine the already fragile balance between solidarity and justice. For these reasons, we are not in favour of the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats and, of course, we cannot support it in the future, and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal for a decision by the home labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u228	Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we sincerely welcome any proposal for a law aimed at improving the social situation of those who actually live on the poverty line and who are struggling to help themselves. Today we have an opportunity to improve the social situation of about 2,300 farmers who are beneficiaries of old age or family pension under the law on the age insurance of farmers. The aim of the law is to equalize the rights of beneficiaries of farm pensions who have paid any insurance, to an annual allowance with other recipients and, of course, to the applicable system in our country. The recognition of the payment of the annual allowance will also give farmers the basic principles of solidarity and reciprocity on which the Slovenian pension and disability system is based. The main purpose of the implementation of the annual allowance is to assist the beneficiaries of the lowest pensions by means of financial means. Exclusion of the lowest pensioners from farmers is, in our opinion, unjustifiable and unconstitutional when receiving the annual allowance. This is for 2,300 people who, after harmonisation of 1. 1. They only receive a pension of EUR 227.60. It is people who have worked their entire lives on their farms, cultivated the land, and thus have helped to preserve and consolidate the natural environment. We have already tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party a proposal this year to amend the law, which went towards raising the lowest pension of farmers, but was arrogantly rejected by the coalition by the remark that it was a populist proposal. I would remind you that, in the previous mandate, we have significantly improved the situation of pensioners from 2004 to 2008. Remember, from the previous term of office, pensions have been coordinated twice a year with wage increases. Now you've changed that and you've only changed 50%. We have abolished the property price for the work of the widow's pension. The so-called pensioner regression has increased. In 2008, a law on a pension allowance was passed, it increased by 9% and a law on a single pension allowance was passed. These were all measures that helped improve the situation of Slovenian pensioners and pensioners. This government should follow our pace and continue its activities to exercise at least the rights arising from the issue of the lowest pensions. But no. It is clear that the proposal, which is good, will be rejected once again and we do not understand that in the coalition you have easily supported the ratings of people who are not at the social bottom when you passed the law on widow's pensions after former military officials. This was absolutely necessary, but for farmers who spent their entire lives working on their farms, money is always running out. Isn't that sad? This is unacceptable, inappropriate and it is a shame that Slovenian voters and voters have inherited the promise of 1,000 euros in pensions before the 2008 elections and that Slovenia can lead better. Today, after one year of left coalition rule, we are fully convinced of this slogan in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, because we believe it is appropriate and should be implemented immediately. The annual allowance is based on solidarity. And I ask you, given that you will reject the law, where is your social sense, which some even have on behalf of your own party. It's about people who have 227.60 euros in pension. I think it is time for a thorough reflection and for you to make a different decision in voting than was previously presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! The main purpose of this novel law on pension and disability insurance, as presented by the first signed colleague Presečnik, is to equalise the rights of pensioners irrespective of the form of insurance up to the annual allowance with the other recipients established in the law in accordance with the principle of solidarity and reciprocity. The applicants argue that so far there is a discriminatory attitude towards farmers or farmers, which I reiterate, irrespective of the form of insurance, are not entitled to receive the annual allowance to be provided by adopting this novel. She also cited the reasons for such a regulation by the State Secretary. In the Group of Members, we really agree with the Government's explanation that the law is not suitable for further consideration. As stated by the Government, recognition of an annual allowance to farmers who have been secured for a narrower scope of rights would constitute discrimination against the other categories of insurers. Those who are necessarily involved in the public system and those who are voluntarily involved are paying contributions to the full range of rights. If the National Assembly had confirmed the content of the law, all would have been mentioned in an unequal situation, as they would consequently have fewer rights in relation to the contributions paid, while at the same time the sense of the existence of a choice of personal insurance, which would allow for insurance for a wider scope of rights, would have been undermined. We agree with the view that this would mean that the insurers involved in it under Article 34, i.e. voluntarily, from now on, would no longer be interested in paying contributions to the full extent of the rights, since the increased scope of the rights would also allow the enjoyment of all pension and disability benefits and to the same extent. Whose harm is it from whose cash register? Of course, from the pension fund, the burden of present and future active generations, which are already much more burdened by these contributions than have generations ahead of them. In this context, it should be noted that the pension and disability insurance scheme is an insurance scheme, which means that the rights are conditioned by the contributions paid. However, the decision of each individual for the type of insurance is a voluntary decision from which he later acquires certain rights. In doing so, it must be fair to say that it is regrettable that farmers could only become involved in this system late. But now that this system is standing, I think it would be hard to start moving it further into the past, but that's not possible. The situation is the way it is, and from here on out, the state has other institutions to correct their social situation if it is so bad. We are aware that some of the benefits or farmer’s pensions are shamefully low. At the same time, it is necessary to know that the property of these recipients is not so low. In order to ensure a decent life, however, there is another institute in our country called social transfers. And that's what this social sense is about if anyone's interested in that answer. The rights of pension insurance are not those with which the social state would be governed. That is why I think it makes sense for all of us to think carefully about such and similar proposals, because there is also a proposal for a pension reform that will regulate these things in an integrated manner on our tables. Of course, we need to ask ourselves what we will do in the case of the Small Work Act, how we will convince students, how we will convince authors, those who work through business contracts, that they have to pay from each job to the Pension Treasury, because this requires demography, the situation as it is, because otherwise our pension office will be in a month, two or three with a host of proposals such as this, or earlier. Therefore, let us be aware that we are Members of all the people, not just 2,300 such or other pensioners of this or that generation, that we are also Members of the generation who do not yet have the right to vote. They are now coming, they will have to take care of all these pension fund tasks that some would now like to include. With this awareness, I believe that the debate on pension system reforms will be more important, fairer for all generations than said. For social rights and to help those who are a real social problem, there are other instruments in this country, not pension insurance. For that reason, we agree with the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you. Respectable. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the law should allow the adoption of an annual allowance to those farmers of the lowest pension amounting to EUR 227. The annual allowance is an instrument of social support for pensioners with the lowest pensions, and it is therefore unacceptable and discriminatory that farmers who in the past were unable to be insured and receive the lowest pensions for various reasons were not included in this measure. We cannot agree with the Government's view in the work which argues that recognition of the annual allowance would also result in discrimination against other insurers in relation to farmers who benefit from pensions after their previous old age insurance. With us, the pension system is pure insurance, not entirely dependent on the contributions paid. Our system is based to the greatest extent on solidarity, so it is entirely up to the legislator, what rights he grants to whom. In addition, the annual allowance is essentially social benefits, which are not linked to the amount of contributions paid, but are intended to solve social distress and are linked to the level of income and property of individuals or families. In fact, it is only a two-year measure if a new reform of the reception of social benefits is excluded from the pension system. Even in the proposal for a reform of the pension system, the Minister announced that pensions were foreseen for all citizens, regardless of whether they had ever worked or paid contributions. Therefore, in this case, as in the case of a protective allowance, it is only for the legislator to decide who recognises that he needs social assistance. It is only a matter of deciding whether these elderly farmers are relieved of social distress. Nevertheless, these farmers have spent their lives producing food for our society and providing jobs and social security for themselves and their neighbors. It is unworthy and humiliating for them and a poor example for young people who do not want to take over farms if they are forced to grow old into social distress. Who else will produce Slovenian healthy home food? Do you not feel that farmers are doing honorable and socially beneficial work in this regard? Is this government different to me? As we have said many times, the budget bag is always empty for one another, while the same bag for the other is always full. And that's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u235	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary of State! The DeSUS Group supports the decision of the parent working body, which states that the proposal for a law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, proposed by the group of Members, with the first-signed President, is not suitable for further consideration. However, we agree with the proposaler's efforts to help farmers to cope with the financial distress they are facing despite years of hard work on farms, but we fear that the proposed way is to improve their material situation in a way that is proposed is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Allow me to speak in a language that can be understood by those who look at us, the ones we are talking about today. The position of the Slovenian National Party is that if you accept this, it will actually be the foundation of the social state. Why? 489 people, these farmers' insurers, receive a lower pension than EUR 100. 13,180 people receive a lower pension than EUR 200. And 24,662 farm insurers receive a lower pension than EUR 300. The threshold of poverty is just over €400, according to the new state has recognised it to raise it to 500 and something. As these people live, I leave your imagination to it. I would like to draw the attention of the Social Democrats, and of the president of the labour force, to the fact that we also had, in the previous term, the Social Democrats of Slovenia, the Janša Party, the President, who has repeatedly opposed the views of his party and the Government. That's exactly why, Madam President, I'm telling you, because he wanted to be human social, just, which you can't do. By adopting what we are about to adopt today, a law without articles is not suitable for further consideration, and the articles you have pushed out by voting, you will prove that you are unsocial, by voting on your work at home, and that you care little about the social state. Why am I saying this? The fact that we don't have enough money in the cash register isn't real. 180 million euros is not collected in pension and disability insurance, and 50 million have been released in this area. €50 million is an exemption. Who are these companies? I'm not going down. Among them are state-owned companies and those directors of companies that have a VIP card, "links and acquaintances", called this card. And if only this money had been collected into this cash register, respected ladies and gentlemen, this law, which equates farmers' pensions for 50,000 people, who, despite this being accepted, would not have been sufficient, and would still be living these people on the brink of poverty, would not have exceeded EUR 400 or EUR 500, somehow rectified the injustices. No, injustices can be corrected by the Roma or gypsy communities, as we like to call them, and these people, as shown by Jelka Strojan, can receive up to € 1500,1700 supplements. There's no problem. We can also deal with same-sex partnerships as we did a little while ago. That's not a problem at all. But we have to end this quickly, because the last point already appears to be, I will say, meaning, we are exhausted and quickly put it on the agenda so that no one will see it and that we can talk about how well we have done something for the population that is dying out. The aim of this law is to equalise rights for the beneficiaries of farm pensions. And you missed that, ladies and gentlemen. The main purpose of the law is to ensure a better material and social situation for farmers, and you will not do so today. If we would only reduce the rights of directors of state-owned enterprises who receive higher wages, all in line, as the Prime Minister himself, and put these salaries at the level of the ministerial salary, we would have enough money to cover what you say is impossible to collect. I can give you another suggestion - call off the battalion in Kosovo, which costs you a million euros a week, and you will have too much money for something else. What do our military missions around the world do? At home we have unresolved border issues, let them come here and work here! Mr Anderlich, it is nice to laugh, but when we talk about ensuring international military delegations and operating in a war zone, we don't even have to discuss how much money we're going to spend. Such a position, such a government attitude will lead you not only to workers who will be on the road tomorrow massily, but also to farmers with villas and tanks of manure outside the National Assembly. I hope that one of you, who is called Social Democrats, will also be flooded with this liquid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. [[The ad in the hall.]] Can you wait a minute, Mr. Germich? Yes, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u239	Well, I would like to remind my fellow Member that we are talking about the proposal for a law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was rejected by finding that it is not suitable for further consideration. The bill, which he was referring to, which was voted down by rejecting all the decisions, is part of the safeguard supplement. He messed things up a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please, you have the floor. No, Mr. Friend, there's no replica. It was not a debate, it was a procedural proposal that was not a procedural proposal, let's say it was a replica. Good. Here you go, Mr. Germich. Forgive me for wasting your time, but you'll have five minutes anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have always dealt with all the issues related to the social situation of people with sensitivity and responsibility in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This sensitivity is particularly important at the present time of recession, job losses and increased human distress. We have also examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act with full precision, but in the examination of this law, the proposer did not convince us by his initiative that a new legal regime comprising only one group of insured persons in the pension system would be fair to all other groups involved in the pension and disability insurance scheme. At the LDS, we will not support the bill and we will vote in favour that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The amendment is of the view that, in the view of the applicant, the rights of pensioners who paid any contributions to pension and disability insurance should be equalised in accordance with the principle of solidarity. Thus, the applicant wants the annual allowance to be provided to the beneficiaries of the farmer's pension, the main part of which is pension insurance, which is insurance for a narrower range of entitlements. In the LDS, we would like to emphasise the purpose of the changes in relation to the regulation of the current pension system. The pension and disability insurance of farmers is regulated according to the applicable system, as is the case for other categories of insured persons, which provides that farmers and members of farmers' holdings, as well as other persons who carry out the agricultural activity independently in the Republic of Slovenia, as the sole or principal profession, shall be insured, subject to certain age and health and to the achievement of the prescribed height of the cadastral income or other income of the farm holding on the insured member. However, regardless of those incomes, the law allows them to be voluntarily included in compulsory pension and disability insurance for a narrower or wider scope of rights, i.e. compulsory insurance prescribed only for those who achieve relatively high cadastral income. Persons who opt for voluntary insurance pay it themselves and choose on their own voluntary basis the basis for the payment of contributions, which is limited only by the lowest mandatory contribution. They therefore have the possibility of paying lower contributions, unlike others, for whom insurance is compulsory and consequently decide for themselves what their pension or the extent of their rights will be insured. In doing so, the person who carries out the agricultural activity pays only the worker’s insurance, that is 15.5%, the difference, that is 8.85%, the employer’s contribution, and the state pays from the budget, which is certainly an expression of solidarity. Therefore, the legislator allowed them, compared with other insurers, to be included in voluntary insurance because it reflects the principle of solidarity and left them free to decide whether they would be insured for a greater scope of rights, for example if they were unable to pay contributions from a higher base, or for the same scope of rights as those for which compulsory insurance is provided. The recognition of an annual allowance to farmers who have been insured for a narrower range of rights would thus discriminate against other categories of insured persons who are necessarily included in the public system and those who are voluntarily involved but who are paying contributions to the full extent of the rights, which in our view would not be a fair regime. On the other hand, the proposed amendment interferes with the system regime, the consequences of which would be long-term. Other insurers would be in an unequal situation, the meaning of the existence of a choice of the extent of the insurance, or of as many persons as possible opting for full-scale insurance, could also be affected by similar requirements from other beneficiaries. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we would like to recall the fact that the modernisation of the pension system is under way, one of the main objectives of which is, in a transparent way, to demarcate and regulate pension insurance in relation to social security. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not support partial interventions in an already problematic and financially sensitive pension system, which would introduce additional elements with a proposal for amendments that reduce justice. Therefore, we do not support the law in the House of Members and we will support the proposal of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this matter, I was struck by the position of the Secretary of State and also by some of the government's parties. This is a position that is right if it is not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u244	Mr Jerovšek, this is obviously a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u245	I intend to propose a proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u246	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u247	that these farmers cannot receive a decent pension because it is a right arising from work that is intensified so that these farmers did not work and did not earn a decent pension that would enable them to survive. [[...]] It is such a so-screaming injustice, so-screaming injustice, for these farmers were oppressed in communism, worked night and day, and were oppressed and now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u248	Mr Jerovšek, there is really no debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u249	I therefore propose that we take a decision, even though you have prevented the adoption of this law, to take a decision to order the National Assembly to order the Government to regulate the correction of the injustices that are taking place in these categories. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u250	Mr Jerovšek, you have used it to debate. You can't just wave around with the conclusions. We have a decision to make, and we will vote on this decision. However, if we wanted another decision, we would need a special discussion with a proposal for conclusions. The proposal for a decision drawn up by the mother labour body will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 18.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u251	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue to end the 19th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending the Law on Secret Data, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u252	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I can say that we will not support the law on classified information. Nevertheless, there was still a brief explanation, since we were relatively few in the morning. There is no model in Europe as proposed by the coalition. I believe the government has worked very hard to find three countries. And even in these three countries, there is no such model. Slovenian police will be the only one in Europe that will not be allowed to grant access to classified information for its employees, for its co-workers, as well as for secret police officers. It will be the only one in Europe, as it is the only one on any other issue. The next matter that is very important in this regard is that the Minister passes on this part of the police's work area. [[It's about three workers.]] From the police to the Ministry. And not just that. If you had moved it somewhere else, you would still understand, but it is not understood that it is being transferred directly to the General Secretariat and that the General Secretariat is headed by the visible representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This means that the most sensitive area, as part of access to classified data, is checked for finances, credits, deposits, relatives, diseases, movables, properties, foreign residences, possible contacts with foreign services and so on. All of this is data, but it is about 1,600 or 1,700 people who have been checked by the police and checked at the annual level, I think, at the annual level of about 300, which will be directly under the political influence of the Minister, I stress, directly under the political influence of the Minister. This is not acceptable to us, it is not understandable, it is harmful, not only for the Slovenian police, even for Slovenian security it is harmful. As a result of this proposal, we cannot support it. It must be made very clear, however, that the Liberal Democracy is cutting its own piece of electoral cake, which is extremely large, some have not even noticed how big it is. And that's what's worrying about this country. That's why we won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 26. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons engaged in economic or agricultural activities under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for natural persons engaged in economic or agricultural activities is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 30. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4, and I would point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. He's got Andrey Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to amend Article 4, paragraph 4, with a single objective to reduce the progressiveness of taxation of motor vehicles or cars. We believe that the proposed or legal scale is one of Europe's most radical, highest car taxation, and that this is very inappropriate during the period of economic crisis, when the automotive industry, and also all those in the chain to the final buyer, are facing difficulties, with the decline in traffic, with the decline in demand for their products, so that at that time the tax burdens do not increase and these cars do not become even less accessible to customers. We suggest that cars from 0 to including 110 grams of CO2 emissions per kilometer are not taxed. That's what they say, the ones that broadcast the least. And that progress is reduced, so that the highest rate of tax is not more than 28%, but 23%. This brings us closer to, at least in a way, this scale of taxation to comparable countries. Moreover, we think it would be wise to think about the measures that have brought positive results in Europe, both in terms of overcoming the crisis and in a fiscal sense. Subsidies for low-release environmentally friendly vehicles have brought not only an increase in demand for these vehicles, but also brought more tax inflows than these subsidies. Therefore, the State has drawn more from this measure than it has invested in it. Which means that several times such an approach has been positively repaid. Instead, Slovenia is taking the path of higher and new taxes. It is probably the easiest thing to tax things and expect some fiscal effect, but unfortunately, these measures have never worked out positively. We propose that, at least a little by example of European countries, we loosen this tax gap and stop blinding the public with the ecological attitude of this taxation, as we miss the taxation of those who emit significantly more carbon dioxide at the expense of drivers and drivers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is, in fact, the same matter as was dealt with in the previous amendment. By drawing my own attention to one another in the debate. I was talking about the difference, the difference in the tax rate from the tax base for the petrol and diesel engines, and I was assessing that the difference across all classes was too great. It is true that some other greenhouse gases, possibly nitrogen oxides and also solid particles, are taken into account in addition to carbon dioxide emissions, but it seems to me that this difference is too large, especially for some classes. This can also be seen nicely from the graphs I submitted to my explanation of the amendment, where for classes 130 to 150 and to 190 and 210 grams of CO2 per kilometer this difference is significantly higher than for classes before and after that. Therefore, the amendment is prepared so that these tax rates are in some way more fairly and evenly distributed for all classes, so that no one is unduly burdened and no one is under-burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 27 to 41. [[It was voted for by 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 31, for 42. [[For the vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members and mags. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we want to amend or delete paragraph fourteen, which states that motor vehicles are described in paragraph 13, i.e. engines are taxed more or 3% higher if they are in the execution of a two-stroke engine on internal combustion and not a four-stroke engine. I would like to say that by doing so, we are drastically or significantly increasing the taxation and taxation of motor bicycles of domestic producers, especially Tomos. So far, these bikes have not been taxed and will be taxed with 0.5 plus 3, which is 3.5%, for so much, they will be less accessible, especially to those first road users, because we all know that we were first engaged as bike drivers with a motor, and then a bicycle with a motor. So why under the cover of environmental orientation for these small ones, say the smallest engines, would so significantly increase the tax burden? We are doing a left-wing service to these first road users, we are doing a bad service to domestic motor bicycle manufacturers, and the fiscal gains will be insignificant from this measure. Respected coalition, consider what you are doing and I would like to point out that you do not have any evaluation of the effects of CO2 savings as a consequence of such action as in Article 4, paragraph 14. I believe that the amendment is worthy of support especially because there is no argument for such an arrangement as it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. That's number six from the exam. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4, under review number 7. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members shall be mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u260	It is precisely this proposal of paragraph 17 that motors are subject to new taxation for environmental reasons or environmental protection reasons, but it is really absurd. And it points to the absurdity of these efforts, which you show through the explanation of the purpose of this law, czech, this is an important step in the green tax reform, and we want to encourage the use of clean means of transport that do not emit harmful substances into the atmosphere. In doing so, you are infinitely more taxing exclusively electric vehicles. If there's no tax now and it's 0.5, it's actually an infinite increase from nothing to something. Indeed, this shows the absurdity of this proposal. The Government's explanation was, czech, also the electricity used to charge these electric cars, it can come from fossil energy and, as a result, it piges the environment. Yes, my dears, this one is very strong. I don't know why we wouldn't charge these cars with electricity produced at a nuclear power plant or in a Sava power plant, in a Drava power plant or maybe in a solar power plant. How do you know there's electricity from Schostanja or from the Trbovlje thermal power plant? You obviously have, I don't know, the cables of people watching where the electricity comes from. Respected, once again, for the consistency you are following and defending at the principal level, support at least this amendment, with which the tax rate from 0.5 we send back to 0 for those motor vehicles that are exclusively powered by electricity and at least a little closer to the text of this law to the words of the explanations you state at the time of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u261	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on behalf of yourself? Do the MPs still want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then in his own name, Dr. Luke Yuri, and in his own name, then Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I will personally vote against this amendment because taxation follows the principle of emissions. Not the direct ones, but the shows. An electric vehicle, whether it's a two-wheeler or a car, uses battery batteries that are in production itself, and believe me, I know something about this, which are very energy-intensive in production itself and require the production of such chemical components that release a substantial amount of CO2 in production. In addition, battery batteries are very important to achieve proper recycling in the recycling process, as the battery, which can be thrown into nature, can be very harmful. From this title came a proposal submitted by the Government to us to tax such vehicles at a minimum tax rate. At the same time, I know that work is also being done to encourage, where possible, infrastructure in particular, because infrastructure is what is missing today, the possibility of using any electric vehicle. Today, what is blocking electric vehicles is not a price but, above all, the fact that these matters cannot be filled anywhere. Therefore, the state and local communities must work to build a good infrastructure where everyone can enter the city, park, load his vehicle and not release any CO2 directly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u264	The same coalition, which now predicts the taxation of even electric engines, sleeps in the same way when, under the cover of the construction of a low-carbon company, it taxes all vehicles because it wants money for everything it spends on, from wiped out, it predicts the construction of new coal blocks of coal power plants. This tells us all about the ecological transfer of this coalition. I'll vote. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please explain your voice on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I will certainly vote in favour of this amendment, because the global trend in the automotive industry is in the direction of producing more electric-powered cars or fuel cells or whatever. I would understand the opposition to this amendment if these batteries or fuel cells were to be replaced on each charge. It's not like that. These batteries or fuel cells are used yesterday, many times. This emission theory, as far as the production of these elements of batteries, fuel cells are concerned, is certainly not true. Otherwise, this trend that we have received in the production of cars, especially hybrid cars and so on, as far as the electric drive is concerned, would certainly not be the same as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 38. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 39. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. Pardon, explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Given that today has been a long day and that much has been said about this law, I reiterate that the Slovenian National Party will not vote in favour of this law and at the same time cautions all Slovenians and Slovenians to see what taxes they will pay from 1. 1. I think it will continue, given that the law enters into force on the first day of the month following that month as adopted. Not only is the tax rate for those vehicles that have the most, I have proof, I have read a few newspapers, normal vehicles and safe vehicles have a discharge of approximately 190 to 250 grams per kilometer. Look at the tax rates. This is what the state has done to steal the sums of money that people have. In addition, if you turn only one side, if you look at the seventh side of the law, you will see that some of the levels listed on the third page are still increasing, some even by 5%. Fourth paragraph on the fourth page down. That means if we take, say, 26% of the rate, this is going to be 1. 1. 2011 increased by 5 more. It's pure lumbarism, it's no fight for minor discharges. And the worst thing is - if you get to know cars a little bit, those cars that have low levels, spending about 130 to 170 grams, go look at them - these are cars that are actually just one of the simple little boxes where people are going to kill themselves right now, death is going to be a lot more. They're just smaller cars, worse cars. Look, once again, I'm telling you, not just to talk, there are magazines for that. It is not fair and it is not fair to adopt such a law. The Slovenian National Party is telling the truth, and you will see this next year when you go or when people will go shopping for cars. And everyone else. And the warning we heard: there will be many more old cars from abroad. And then you'll have a situation on Slovenian roads on your vests.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dr Luka Juri has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u270	Social Democrats, as we have already said, support such a change in taxation towards green taxation. Also because this change will affect vehicles that are less polluting today and lower CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, they will be taxed less. Vehicles that pollute more will be taxed more than they are today. Among these vehicles, which will be taxed less, we find a wide range of vehicles from smaller vehicles to hybrid vehicles, such as Toyota Prius and Honda Insight, Lexus RS 450, which is a luxury vehicle, and regardless of this will be taxed significantly less. Among these vehicles that will be taxed less, you can also find Ford Focus, Toyota RAV4 - city SUV, BMW 318, 316, 320, even BMW, which will be taxed less because they have cleaner engines. Social Democrats support the basis where emissions and no more prices become taxation, because that is right. It's because, after all, no one harms anyone if they buy a more expensive car. It's a shame if he buys a polluting car. We all suffer from emissions released into the atmosphere. And that is why we will all have to pay allowances through the state budget on the basis of a Kyoto agreement. It is right, therefore, that if we decide to take such a luxury, we will pollute the common atmosphere of all of us, at least to pay the tax. However, if we decide to take a step forward in thinking and in technology and decide on a vehicle that will be environmentally friendly and which will pollute significantly less, the state will recognise and tax substantially less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? Yeah. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Given that no amendments have been adopted by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party will vote against these solutions. There's more than one reason. The first is that it is at least appropriate to tax the economy and people in times of economic and financial crisis. On the contrary. We should consider how to stimulate consumption and how to encourage the purchase of cars, especially environmentally friendly ones, i.e. those with the smallest CO2 emissions, through subsidies, which are done by developed countries and have encouraged national economies as well as our economies, because we are a subcontractor to many producers in Europe. We're "twirl" to foreign actions, and we're at home, instead of recognizing these measures, we're acting in the opposite direction. That's the first reason why not. The second reason is that the ruling coalition has embarked on green tax reforms and concerns about reducing emissions in small cases, while the essences most broadcast in Slovenia are in fact intact. These are: in particular transit through Slovenia with many environmentally-unfriendly trucks from southern and Central European countries, energy and more. There is a very selective, partial approach to taxation of motor vehicles, not to mention taxation of other means of transport such as trucks, tractors, aircraft, vessels and so on. So it's a very partial approach. It was mentioned that some vehicles would now be cheaper, but luxury would be more expensive. Apparently, Tomos' moped is a luxury, because nothing has been taxed so far, and now he'll be retaxed. The luxury is obviously all the engines and all the bikes with the engine, because so far they have not been taxed, then they will be taxed. Luksuz is also obviously an electric car. He hasn't been taxed before, now he'll be taxed. Respectable coalition, what kind of signal do you give to people? To tax electric motor vehicles afterwards. Mopeds, as I say, are an initial means of transport for young people involved in the market. These are bad messages. This is an insufficient and partial approach to introducing green tax reform or any measures in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. Those are the reasons. You also introduce maximum progress in cars that is not known to other countries in the European Union. No one has such a strong progressive scale. I can't help but conclude that you've been following only fiscal targets and absolutely nothing environmental.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Before we move forward, I would like to remind those who explain their voices not to refer to other groups because there is no possibility of controversy. I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Brada Pecan has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. I have already said in the debate on the law itself that I have given quite a lot of thought to these changes. In the meantime, my colleague helped me by reminding me of what was written in the text of the law so far. The fact is that the amendments to this law, which are supposed to apply until 31 December this year, exempt vehicles with emissions of less than 110 grams of this tax. And it is true that if we do not adopt this law, it will happen that all those with emissions of less than 110 grams will have to pay a tax when they buy such a vehicle, a tax that can be borne in the worst case even about 5%, and now it was 0. So that's the problem. It would be problematic to reject this law because we would keep the old law without this relief and then at least something should be done quickly. On the other hand, I have to say that it is not logical to impose a tax on mopeds that have not been introduced so far and that there is in fact no justice in this taxation, because it has absolutely no effect on the behaviour of the driver himself with the vehicle because he is not taxed or taxed on spent fuel or emissions caused by a large number of kilometres transported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Lucky Friend, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law, if presented as the basic purpose of the law to fill essentially the budget hole, believe me, would be immediately behind this. And in the form you've presented it, it's purely sedition. Why? The biggest polluters are basically far away from us. The United States, and China, they don't care about the Kyoto Agreement or the conference that is now ending in Copenhagen. They don't care, believe me, they don't. In the government, the people are friendly to the government, and they don't care about the most polluters, the trucks that destroy our infrastructure, which we will pay dearly and release large emissions, pollute our environment, pay nothing, pay nothing. They're out in the open, and you don't care how you tax it. We have told you many times in the Slovenian National Party, let us redirect this load to the railways. The heavier transit cargo, which is an environmentally disputed cargo, could be diverted by one correspondence meeting in the Government to railways. We have a chance. If we wanted to, we could do it tomorrow. And when you talk about this as a necessity, why don't you take into account other energy sources that pollute the environment. Like heating with oil and also using oil derivatives in large industrial facilities. This could simply be addressed by replacing such consumers and environmental pollutants with photovoltaic devices that would produce electricity and electricity surpluses could be broadcast back to the network. But you won't do it either. And to talk about that your only concern, of course, is the environment and environmental policy, is pure seduction. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The only reason is in this and the desire, of course, is to fill that budget hole, which yawns more and more every day because of the irresponsible treatment of public finances. [[...]] That's all. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u277	My colleague, I would like to remind you once again that it does not conflict with other groups of Members in their explanations of vote. East of the Crossbow, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u278	President, thank you so much for your word, Your Honor. We are all probably aware of the problem of increasing emissions and climate change. Addressing the issue of releases must be addressed more comprehensively at EU level, the first being more strategic. I think that each EU country will be difficult to meet these tasks, and I am sure that, as a whole, Europe should take these measures differently. The solution would be a single excise duty on derivatives in the EU and would thus be transparent to raise funds, manage funds and make it clear where these funds would go. It is said that these investments in emission reduction projects such as transport infrastructure, spatial planning, and thus much more, thus lower CO2 emissions would be at the expense of this, better logistics and significantly better living conditions for people living in this area. I think that these should be the main priorities, and each country in particular will find it very difficult to guarantee these things. There would be a very good agreement at the level of Europe if it could be adopted in this way. This proposal, as it is now in the National Assembly, I do not think it is the right solution, it is the same green reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you very much. This law is the law for the extra taxation of the population and the law for fraud and profit of the category of people associated with the government. It's about passing through your talk on environmental issues. Under the cover of ecological green demagogies, you additionally tax people, especially those who are already deprived. I regret that some media systematically promote a group of Members who offer a seemingly positive provocation every day, as was the pump yesterday at the Copenhagen conference. Because we know that the letter was not even sent, that journalists can be so naive and that they promote it. The demagogy created by this "fruit" group from the Social Democrats is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u281	Mr Jerovšek, please, I will take your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u282	No, no, no. I have to protest what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u283	I'm so sorry. You can't use words like that. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I turned off your microphone. An explanation for Roberto Battelli's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this marriage because it's not clever enough and because, in fact, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u285	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u286	does not take into account the reality in Slovenia as well as the economic standard and so on. [[...]] This belt, which goes from, say, 120 milligrams to 170, maybe a little bit over, is the most common. This belt captures those cars that are more affordable to people for the needs they have, the usual family needs. And that's on impact, that's it. What's most accessible is very taxed. What goes beyond 190 is rare, these are much older models, I'm talking about cars. On the other hand, those with low emissions are, even though they are small, expensive cars. Small ones are too small for family needs, but they are too expensive for ordinary families. That's why I don't think it's preposterous, and I won't back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u288	The crucial moments of the Copenhagen meeting are currently taking place. Clearly, today's course of events does not bring good news, and we are far from what the National Assembly wrote a month ago as a vision, as a message to Europe and the world, as we imagine an effective and ambitious fight against climate change. Today we are adopting a law that is a step towards an effective fight against climate change. 25.4% of all emissions in Slovenia are generated by road transport. It is true, and especially with the transit of cargo through Slovenia. However, we are solving this part in a different way, by strategically shifting transport to railways. Unfortunately, the previous one at this point did nothing to maintain the competitiveness of Slovenian logistics today and to redirect transport to railways. I'm afraid not. However, we are also doing this in different ways, through tolling and similar measures to maintain and increase the efficiency of the Slovenian rolling stock and reduce its emissions. Tax policy has always been the most effective measure to change patterns, to change structures and to redirect things that pollute, to things that pollute less or less. And this is the right policy and I am glad to be part of this policy and I am happy to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u289	Thank you very much. An explanation for Anton Anderlich's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u290	There is a serious likelihood that we are wrong and that is to go back by proposing a law that would give everyone reasonable tax on those elements in the country, on the road, in this case cars, engines that will be less environmentally friendly, that will release more CO2, more nitrogen discharges and even particulate matter. Anyone who buys such cars, such means of transport, will have relief. And if this is not understandable, then I do not know how to tackle this difficult issue of getting off the road all that pollutes or, to the greatest extent possible, and ultimately in the budget, ensure that such vehicles are not sold and that such vehicles are not bought so that the state can remedy the consequences of these free decisions so that everyone can buy whatever they want and drive around Slovenia and contaminate. For me, this is just a key question, and I believe that this law will be able to contribute to the achievement of some of these objectives. If we do not, I will certainly vote in favour of the next amendment that will contribute to this noble thing we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u292	Thank you for your word. I will not support the marriage itself, for it reminds me of those times in very dewful years when we carried the water into the sea with a bucket and measured how high the sea level rose. At an environmental conference in Bali, they launched the motto "act locally, think globally". And this law is an example of how red tape is a good way to turn citizens' tax deductions into a very, very empty state budget. To start with ecology, the environment, climate change, to deal with taxation, while the ministries of environment, agriculture, health care and so on have no programme, then free of charge are all resolutions, free of charge are all good wishes. As we know, we're losing 40% on buildings, we're losing 40% on poor insulation, and only 14% of emissions are caused by traffic. In addition, I wonder, in Ljubljana, when a car is in the free running in a column for an hour, what happens to the environment at that time. It is said that even during the war it came faster to Ljubljana when there were strict controls than now. Whether we have already done something, or whether we already have legislation on private hens instead of central heating and so on. I am also advocating that it would be better to unify fees across the European Union and actually pay after spent fuel and after emissions. That's why I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u293	Is there still a wish to explain your voice? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking you to sign up. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Bogdan Barovic has an explanation for the vote in his name. May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you for your word. I will once again make it clear and loud that I will be against this law because its objective is not a pure environment, but a filling of the budget hole and a peeling of the already poor Slovenians and Slovenians. I will base my claim on the fact that all rumors of zero car speeds that consume up to 110 grams per 100 meters are designed, a source of data for the auto catalogues of all Slovenian car providers, November 2009. One car. If you want to take care of the clean environment, buy Volkswagen polo 1.6 TDI, which is the only car of all who has 109 grams per 100 kilometers and with 0.5 or 2.5 tax rates, there is only one car, which is a shame Fabia. Excellent, bravo, all Slovenians buy the poles and damage to Fabia and the air will be clean. A clean lie and proof if we try a little harder. Most of the cars we Slovenians drive are, on average, to look at the class that has 12 and 16 for petrol engines and 16 for 16 and 20% for diesel. It's like the drafters didn't know that. They can't hook me up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support this law, however, that it will improve people’s awareness of what kind of cars they will buy and how much they will release poison into the atmosphere. You won't believe it, my daughter was carrying water to the sea about 23 years ago, and she got up by about three inches in an hour and a half. It was the tide, but some people don't know it was. In this case, too, there may be a tide of different behavior. Small steps may lead to a change in this law to progress and achieve some awareness of what we are doing. If we don't get started, it's never gonna work. Small steps are also needed, and this one is one of them. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u298	Do you know why there is such a beautiful blue color near the existing thermal power pond in Slovenia? Because it is completely dead due to the emissions emitted by the thermal power plant, because the ash of this coal is highly radioactive and because the amount of all possible harmful substances is extremely high in the environment in the heat plants. And in doing so, Slovenian coal is one of the worst, which, by the way, exists. For this reason, it is clear that if we wanted to deal seriously with the issue of transport, we would be discussing today a law that would further burden freight transit, which is actually a major polluter, and redirecting it to the railway. By tightening up, adding taxes to the majority of vehicles, you are turning Slovenia into a landfill of used vehicles from the rest of Europe and at the same time predicting that you will demand a tightening of environmental conditions, even writing to the Copenhagen meeting and at the same time predicting the construction of new coal blocks of the thermoelectric power plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u299	Please, don't argue, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u300	This is purely ordinary eco-transmission, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It should be borne in mind that the government gentlemen are driven by drivers and security guards. And gentlemen of the government coalition don't pay taxes for these cars, but we all pay taxes for these cars. Of course, gentlemen, it doesn't matter, you have to fill up the national small. Little is to be filled where it is easiest to - in Paradise, in people who nod, who are susceptible, who are servants and need to be squeezed to the final limit. The final frontier is far away, gentlemen of the government are thinking, let's get the Slovenians a little tight. And they're tied up in this marriage. I expect them to predict in a short time that they will lower car speeds and then we'll get ideas, let's ride horseback or walk, or maybe we can buy roller skates and stuff. That's what I expect from this government. To demand that the trucks go to the railroad, but that's not it! Because someone gets fat money in their pocket or more from that piece. And let's see the scheming! Here you are fighting for car gas emissions, but you will be building a new block of thermal power plant Šostjanj, which in one month will throw up as much pig shit as all Slovenian passenger cars in one year. That's your play. Of course, there is a huge piece of cake in this Chestnut plant, which has risen from 600 million euros to a billion and several hundred million euros. And, of course, we'll pay for it, and we'll burn it. It's just that it's supposed to be a hungry, greedy government monster.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u304	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u305	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u306	I agree with those who say, while people are loud when you tax them or squeeze them, it's not so bad. It's worse when they shut up. And when this opposition is silent, then the coalition will realize that something is wrong. However, as long as we warn the opposition of irregularities, unfortunately we are not doing well for the Slovenian people because the coalition is preparing a new tax, namely, the tax on bicycles and walking immediately after the new year. This will, of course, be a new paradigm for 2010. The next step is, or the coalition has obviously decided, that those who still have jobs and will go to work will be taxed to the point of disability and those who, of course, no longer have it, will probably have to hand over their own assets to some individuals in this country who have become rich in the past 15 or 20 years in order to become ashamed of you. It's really catastrophic, and as my colleague Battelli said, all that middle-class stuff that people actually need to transport, what has not been taxed so far, is taxed by this law. And it is not fair to give them or give citizens and citizens such a gift before the new year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me. Do you still want to explain your voice? I'm asking you to sign up again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the warning, because I was no longer sure we were talking about this tax. When I listened to the explanation of the voice for the last hour, everything else was stated, only about the tax was very little talk. Let me say that I will vote in favour of the proposal that we have discussed this afternoon and we are deciding on it today because I want to live in a cleaner environment. For this reason, I also want better air in the valley from which I come. There has been a grave lie in Parliament, but it can also be ignorance, but I think it's more of a lie, given the experience I have. The explanation was given, sir. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Now I suggest you two take care of each other, and I'll do it later. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u309	I ask for peace in the hall, no one will speak to the chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, I would like to point out that a lie has been told, a lie that we have in the chalice valley, because there are no lakes elsewhere that are due to the mining of coal, dead lakes, that these lakes are blue. These lakes haven't been dead for a long time. They're not blue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u311	Mr. Kontic, that would be a replica, but a replica is not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u312	It's not a replica, but by explaining my voice, I reject lies, and because I want to live in a healthy environment, I will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u313	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 29. I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 to 20. [[53 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 25 to 47. [[It was voted for by 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 25, for 48. [[It was voted for by 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 24 to 47. [[She was voted on 24th.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 to 48. [[She was voted on 24th.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 25 to 47. [[It was voted for by 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 25, for 48. [[It was voted for by 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group is given by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u314	In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have worked all the time to adopt this law, and from summer until the end of the year, to take into account and listen to the different opinions of those who are engaged in agriculture, those who do not care what happens to agriculture, we have tried to correct this law to some extent. Unfortunately, I note that all efforts have been unsuccessful and that is why we will not support the amendment of this law in the Slovenian People's Party. The reasons why we do not support them are very clear. The first is that we firmly believe that this law in nothing, and indeed in nothing, does not improve the measures of land policy and the basic purpose and basic tools of the Government, which the State has to improve in order to improve land policy in Slovenia, has been wasted in this part. We will do nothing to round up farms with the novelty of this law, we will do nothing to allow the hill farms to gain some kind of hectare of forest in management in order to make it easier for them to survive in these difficult times. More than that. In this law, we adopt regulations that, according to our firm belief, completely abolish the control of the public and also the public of the work of the Fund, because when all the bodies of the Fund are fully named within the Government, by the dictatorship or by the Minister's instructions, I think that this public and control in this part are greatly endangered and we see no reason why this would happen. Secondly, we are confident that, due to financial threats in part to today's adopted novels, and in part to the already accepted burdens of payment for denationalisation beneficiaries, this fund will make it from a financial independent fund into a fund that will be given to the grace and mercy of every single budget. We therefore firmly believe that the basic purpose of this fund will not be implemented, for in such a coalition and in such support as agriculture now has, I firmly believe that it will not be recapitalised or complemented in the coming years. The third issue, which is why we are also opposed to this law, is that, following recommendations and even discussions with the forestry profession, a major step has been taken in this direction, so that in the world of Europe, the highly recognised forestry sector, which we have in Slovenia, is slowly beginning to break down. We do not want to support this and we do not want to accept the responsibility of the consequences of such a changed fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u315	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the SNS Group, Happy Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u316	Your Honor! The fund is out of control. This National Assembly has established the Fund for Agricultural Lands, but no one has jurisdiction and control over the Fund. The Director is responsible for the law of business, but that's all. Today, if we confirm this law, and we confirm it, then we will transfer the responsibility and responsibility of the Fund's work to the Ministry of Agriculture and we will prevent the messes that are happening. Yesterday was essentially a round table of representatives of ministries, inspectorates and agricultural chambers. In Cyprus, they talked about what the fund can do in essence negative in the environment. Strange things are happening in the municipality of Kore, not in Koreska, in Primorska at all. 250,000 cubic metres of material can be placed anywhere. The easiest thing to do is to put off this waste construction material on agricultural land. And that's what's happening. We were both with the secretary of state at this round table. And the fact is that the Final Trade, the company that does it, is this illegal intervention into nature, the threat, the ecological pollution of the environment, even the Drnica Valley, and this is the watershed. The former Minister of Transport is also there, and he did not hope to say anything about it, Mr Pavlich. He was quiet until today when we basically brought this to this level to discuss it. The Environment Minister was also asked, for half an hour he explained what irregularities were going on there, what marital inconsistencies and so on, but the elimination of injustices and the recovery into the original situation in this environment would never happen, because there was no decision for this gentleman who received grants, more than a hundred thousand euros was paid for the rehabilitation, and there he came up with a mess and he would leave it there. The state also paid for it under the pretext of hydromelioration. And this is not just happening in this case, in any other case. And who actually gave the gentleman land for rent? A fund of agricultural land that will raise its hands. Today's law will essentially prevent this kind of illegal activity, because tomorrow we have a responsible person, this is the Minister of Agriculture, and the next day I will be with him when this law is legally valid to ask him how we will remedy this matter. Not only in this case, but also in other cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u317	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 6. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act is not suitable for further consideration. Robert Hrvat on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u318	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Today we are witnessing another law in a series of laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve the situation in all areas. The fact is that there is only one article to be amended. I am pleased that we have come to a common conclusion today that this solution is good and that we are all in agreement with this solution. You have expressed your support for this law or solution, but you have, of course, rejected the coalition parties' support for the law because the candidate is the Slovenian Democratic Party. And that's not good. What do we want? We want to simplify procedures, facilitate and improve the solution to the imposition of the commotion procedure. We want to reduce the percentage of those who have to give their consent from 80 to 67. The most interesting thing about this is that the law that we have proposed as the Slovenian Democratic Party will not only be supported because we are proposing. The fact is that the Minister himself said that the solution was good and that he would also include the same solution in the amendment of the legislation already being discussed, I will say, a little less than a year. We have already tabled this law - with the same text - and was then arrogantly rejected. The same will happen today, but that is not good. We expect this proposal for a law prepared by the Ministry, i.e. a proposal for a law on agricultural land, which is intended to regulate the whole matter in its entirety. He's already been to public hearing, he's been online twice, now he's been pulled back twice. It is obvious that you have a problem with this law and it is obvious that the commotion process will still run in a similar way as it is now running, that 80% of those involved must be "yes". And that's a big one. It agrees with the profession that this is a problem, which is agreed by the Council of State, which is agreed by the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, but only by the coalition. And I just don't understand why you insist on some explanation that this law is not suitable for further consideration. This dictatorship, made clear today by the Minister, will be exactly the same as the one he is drafting in the law. But today you will reject the law only for one simple reason, because the proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Yes, please, the explanation for the vote on behalf of the LDS Group is mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u320	Thank you very much. In the LDS Group, we will reject the law on agricultural land, because with this solution it is about like a car, we would have a good bodywork, not an engine and not a bike. In order to carry out the commotion procedure on agricultural land, it is, of course, necessary to amend significantly more administrative matters than just the number of owners' consents from 80 to 67. The proposal from 80% to 67% is corrected, it will certainly be contained in the new law, plus four or five solutions that are needed to make the commissions that are needed for Slovenian agriculture finally run out. It is not a problem whether the agricultural land law will come into light fourteen days earlier or three weeks later, it is important that we prepare an imaginary and good law, which will also contain your positive solution, I hope for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u321	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, for 46, for 29. [[It's 46 votes.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u322	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party will oppose this proposal, which seeks to destroy or stop the adoption of the law. For the first time, because our proposal literally follows the Constitutional Court's request, where the Constitutional Court has only already ruled on a particular dictatorship that we have applied literally and the Constitutional Court has certainly not ruled on something that is contrary to the law. Given that the Slovenian People's Party has also improved our text on the proposal of the Legal and Legislative Service, there are so many possibilities and excuses for the process to continue. Above all, we want to prevent or prevent the coalition from falling into temptation to prevent a referendum on family law. The explanation was clear. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u323	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u324	that the government, or coalition, also wants this minor change, which is pointed out by the Constitutional Court, is a single article or several more sentences, wants to save the government in the family code, which is very extensive because of this, so it was heard and noticed that this would prevent the referendum. [[...]] With such an extensive and sensitive code as the family code that is sensitive to all of us, to us, to our children, to our grandchildren, to such a code that interferes with the intimacy of the nation, however, we should respect the will of the majority and also design it by surviving or passing any referendum review. We hope that, even if you reject this law and try to prevent the referendum in such a way, the Constitutional Court will be so sober and will protect the right to a referendum and prevent the fundamental constitutional right which the Constitution provides to people in Article 3 from deciding on important things also directly and primarily directly, and this is at the referendum. We will, of course, reject such a proposal to stop this process and protect our will in order to prevent the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-18-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u325	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 31. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 30. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, the regular procedure. On Wednesday 16 December 2009, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 25. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of the 2nd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act, the ordinary procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask for a little listen and attention to bring the vote to an end. A chance for chat and joy will come later. Please! On Wednesday 16.12.2009, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafters, that, pursuant to Article 180(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're not done voting, please, for the attention. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, this is the Mandate- voluntary matter. Under this item, the Committee will consider a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and on the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Group of Social Democrats and by the non-aligned Member, Vila Rezman. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve Vice-President Matjaž Han of the Group of Social Democrats in the Committee on the Economy and will be appointed Chairman of this Committee at the same time. The Vice-President of the Committee shall be Mr Willi Rezman. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 11 January 2010, at 9 a.m. Please take all the materials, computers and everything you have out of the hall, because we will prepare the hall for Tuesday's ceremony. Thank you very much.
