ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	We continue the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2011 supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the development programme plan are counted. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm surprised. There's a few of us. I'm scared. Yesterday there was an eyewitness to the government that they were gone, but today there are actually fewer of us. I would like to talk to you about the 2011 budget. Yesterday I discussed the 2010 budget. Much has been said yesterday on the subject of budget development or development. I will not go into this myself, because, in fact, always a coalition, whatever it is, claims that the budget is development-oriented, contrary to the opposition's argument that this is not the case. And I'm not going to discuss it. I still argue that both the 2010 budget and the 2011 budget are not sufficiently cost-effective. I want to show this with some numbers, with some analyses that I did for both 2010 and 2011. As far as budget 2011 is concerned, it does not differ much from 2010. If I touch some of the non-governmental budgetary consumers and re-comparison, as I compared yesterday with the last budget drawn up by the old government, so the government, in which I have also participated for a while, I can say that some indices are too high for individual budget users. If I touch non-governmental budget consumers, we have a similar picture here. The cabinet of the President of the Government therefore has, if I compare the 2009 budget prepared by the old government and the 2011 budget, one of the few that has the index 77; therefore, it actually saves and is, in addition to the President of the State who has 92 and the National Assembly, the esteemed President of the National Assembly, who has 89 indexes, three rare examples or bright exceptions in the 2010 and 2011 budgets, which truly save. For everyone else, I'm afraid I can't say. For example, the State Audit Commission has Index 108, Information Officer 110, Court of Auditors 100, State Council Index 107, Constitutional Court 119, Ombudsman 118, Commission for the Prevention of Corruption 242. For example, we understand why the index here is so high and would agree with the index itself. I don't understand what that's like. I would expect that some frameworks, some guidance, some strategy to be put in place by the President of the Government, and this strategy, in fact, would set the course in which this country will go in these two years. Indeed, after these two years, three quarters of this mandate will be completed and key moves will take place in the next two years. My assessment is that this strategy has not been made, which is not good. I believe that the public administration, even under the pressure of the government, should, if you wish, tighten the belt to a much greater extent than the numbers show in this case. It is not normal for some budget users simply not to realize this and they do not care enough about what is happening in the Slovenian economy today. If I touch on government budget users and again compare the 2009 budget, which was made up of the old government and on which the balance was adopted twice, and the 2011 budget, we can find that under the Protocol of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this index is falling, which is good and logical, has an index 79, while all other budget users - the Government Office has, for example, an index 116, the Office for Nationality Index 104, the Office for Equal Opportunities 118, the General Secretariat of the Government 115 and has an absolute budget of EUR 2 million. Of course, we can assess whether this is really appropriate or not. Government Office for Religious Communities 112, Data Protection Office 113, Customs Administration 110 and an absolute amount of almost €6 million more, Anti-Money Laundering Office 115. Well, the rare exception is the Public Payments Office, which has an index 97, Tax Administration Index 106. So, even with these government budget users, there is not much of a desire to save any euro. According to the indices, man gets the feeling that the principle is the same as it was, which was not good, I am also aware that it was not good that the budgets worked with indexing. So, as much as was achieved on each item, and then on the new budget 5, 6, I don't know how many percent up, and then it was a new budget. I think it's time to break up with those principles, if I say so myself. And if I touch all 15 ministries, and I leave the government's services again, there are only two ministries that have an index below 100. There's a defense with 89, and there's also a public administration. These are two bright exceptions. I don't know, but I'm afraid we might be overreacting in case of defense. While all others do not adhere to such rules or such a principle as to tighten the belt. The difference between the total of all 15 ministries in the 2011 budget, i.e. the expenditure allocated to them through the 2011 budget and those earmarked for 2009 is a good billion 200. So yesterday we've identified a billion 300, and for 2010, it's slightly less than a billion 200, and there are objective circumstances that make it so. Probably also due to the fight against the crisis - even if some ministries do, for example, have to and deal with the crisis, with social pressures and so on, there is still a difference, in this case 150 million. Even if we take off our paychecks. For 2011, there is still a difference between 112 million and 2009 for wages. Well, it's not true, at least those numbers don't show. I hope we're all operating on the same numbers, with the same budgets, or I have the right documents I got. All these figures and comparisons show that this budget, if it is not already austerity, is not sufficiently cost-effective if I am specific enough. And the numbers show a lot more. I would also expect this public administration to know that the facts that are taking place due to these financial and economic crises must be taken into account, that the public administration must also share the fate of this Slovenian economy. Moreover, the Slovenian economy simply cannot afford such expensive state administrations at this time. And this should be the starting point for both this and the next budget. We talked a lot, and you talked about the structural reforms that are urgently needed. Without structural reforms, or if you want, some new socio-economic model, some new socio-economic balance, it's probably not going in the right direction. And these structural reforms should at least be announced, in my opinion, through these two budgets. I repeat, in 2011, you will have three quarters of your term of office, and the year will remain the most difficult in each term, that is, that pre-election year. I tried it myself on my skin, it's not easy. It is difficult to do something important in the last year or to take steps that may not appeal to voters and voters, and that is two years in which such steps should be taken. And unfortunately, through these two budgets, I don't see these structural reforms that we've been talking about, which you've discussed a lot yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the supplementary draft budget? Please, Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	When we consider the 2011 budget, we must first ask ourselves whether we are doing what makes sense or not. I have supported this approach since we came to two-year budgets. Of course, the situation at that time has changed significantly. In any event, at each year when we adopted that other budget, we were aware that we would be adopting a revised budget just before the start of the financial year. I ask this question because it is impossible at a time when we already had two rebalances for 2009, when the situation is completely uncertain and that is why some of the plans that are envisaged here, how individual things are supposed to take place, and where the priorities should be given more money and should be reduced is a job that is not certain. In the near future, I believe that under macroeconomic conditions, Slovenia will monitor this year's end and, of course, next year. That is why I think that this is just an orientation, that this is what all those who work in individual areas to say "will still exist" in saying that they will be able to plan their spending, that they will anyway depend on a lot more than just what we want, what we predict, what we are planning. Although I believe that we are coming into a more stable period and through 2010, with some forecasts, trends will turn to positive, but I also think that as big a shift as they are now going on, they will not hold back. Where we have incredible indices and it's purely public consumption, or if we say it's an even more expensive country, it's definitely not going to hold up and we're going to have to cut back. However, I believe that in 2011 it will be possible to move the whole matter in the direction it is called investment - development and research in one way or another - because the trends that are now in order to change the structure of the budget both for 2010 and with the rebalans in 2009 are mainly about expenditure relating to salaries relating to material costs and this percentage is substantially increasing within the budget structure. If we do not turn this trend in the other direction, then the question is whether we will have the opportunity at all to eventually make a change in the budget, which I am particularly sure will be necessary at the end of next year. I don't think some things are justified when they go to heights that don't need to be specifically talked about. All that is the index above 110, above 120 and so on, is things that are not even justified, but that are expected to have any effect on this and that the country would be more convincing to have more citizens from this country. On the contrary, things give the impression that it is simply that some have chosen some money in advance, but it is not, in the end, through programs or even confirmations in the coming period. That is why I think there is some kind of planning in this part of the 2011 budget debate, some prediction that is based on some uncertain data, uncertain predictions. Therefore, clearly, since we have decided on this methodology and this method of adoption of two-year budgets, it is beneficial - I expect much from the changed way of planning and modified planning at work when we are talking about the implementation of some projects that need to be prepared, they must be equipped with all the necessary elements, of course, regardless of how someone predicted that in a year, two or three somewhere in some development programme some money will ensure that this will not be the basic item as it has been so far. That is why so many unrealised things, or some could not be realized because they did not have the right items.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the 2011 supplementary draft budget? Please, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, ministers! Yes, a lot of things are actually true, what colleague Anderlich said before me, given that the 2009 budget was also rebalanced twice. However, in view of the experience that the Government has already had, because it has been working twice on the 2009 balance sheet and has been preparing the budget for the following year, 2010 and 2011 as well, it seems, however, that it has gone simply too far in preparing both the 2010 and 2011 budget, according to the 2009 experience. It might even be good to say and say, "Because we do not know how 2010 will go, it is better not to deal with the 2011 budget and approach the current problems ahead." Look, it's 2009. As soon as the last rebalancing was adopted, income on the income side decreased by at least one billion, a good billion in revenue, and, in fact, expenditure increased by half billion, or a discrepanian between tax revenues and current transfers and current expenditure in 2009 was 17%. Of course, this is why the public debt of 1.8 billion in 2009 and 2011 is planned for 1.6 billion euros, with a total debt of 18 years - 8 billion, in 2009 - 1.8 in 2010 also planned for 1.8, almost 1.9 billion and in 2011 - 1.65 billion. This is actually over 33% of the social product. That's so far away, it probably won't hold much of it. Otherwise, I don't know where there's going to be a billion more revenue in 2010 and 2011, but if unemployment is rising, productivity is falling; in short, problems are falling. I can do it with taxes, with some burdens, but the question is, who's going to hold this, because anyway, our labor force, as they say or analyses show, is far from the most expensive in Europe and in the world. So, with such burdens and with such items, it is likely that today it is very irrelevant to talk about the 2012 budget and will have to be substantially fixed sooner or later in 2010, let alone in 2011. Well, look, it's worrying that there's no money on those items where there could be some kind of development, these are investments. In the road area alone, if we look at it, there are 145 million in the Roads Directive for 2010, and 135, that is a reduction for 2011; for 2012, for which there is no budget anyway, there are some projections, and for almost 100 million euros more, and then it is planned after 2013 and a billion and some. If a public debt of 600 were spent or earmarked for investments, this would even be a positive option to turn this country in a positive direction, but this is not because in 2011 tax revenues are one billion less than or even after this calculation or this budget we will make 1,000 euros per population of the minus in just one year. And it's simply by the profession and by the government that suggested it, simply, I don't think it's unacceptable. Can you imagine anyone who will make up the 2012 budget and the following periods? It seems to me that this 2011 budget is the same as when it was destroyed there, when Elan was destroyed, when Metal was destroyed, when we had 100,000 unemployed. Today we're back at this number 100,000 or close to 100,000. Question of what will happen by the end of 2010. In short, taking the country against half of what we've created being in debt to the whole country is incomprehensible and unacceptable to me. I will not support such a draft budget alone, because it is totally unrelated in any way, absolutely without connection, no one will have any of it, except for the costs we all have, the country, citizens and citizens. With such a scrupulous, not just a scrupulous, catastrophic budget that brings this country to disaster, you will actually commit a mortal sin if you support it. Really! And we had General Maistra's holiday yesterday, and people like that have to turn in their graves.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. With regard to the 2011 budget, I must say that the Government has thought as much as you think. Is it possible to draw up a budget that will be sustainable in a situation of great economic uncertainty and unpredictability of economic movements over the next two years. After a thorough assessment, the Government decided to comply with the Public Finance Act in order to draft the budget and not the amendment to the law, which it would have imposed on it to send to the National Assembly two budgets. Why did she make that decision? She decided, in particular, because she believed that the 2011 budget could make the term of the approach that you say it was not. The Government's approach to preparing the budget was based on the following principles. The first principle is the establishment of a fiscal rule. This means that the Government has set itself the goal of keeping the volume of budgetary expenditure financed from the integrated budget resources, in the coming years, resources that are not conditional on earmarked resources and European funds nominally at an unaltered level. Such an approach will in the future provide a relatively restrictive spending policy, as shown in the 2011 budget, especially given the need to provide public sector wage funds for 2011, which also allows for the elimination of the third quarter of wage imbalances, which is essentially a 2010 transfer. Nevertheless, she managed to maintain a nominally unaltered level of expenditure. At the same time, the 2011 budget incorporates the rule of unchanged tax burdens on the revenue side. Although we have recorded some expectations in the budget memorandum concerning property tax and green tax reform, however, we have drawn up a budget without taking into account changes in tax burdens or higher tax burdens in 2011. The next issue, which marks the 2011 budget, is undoubtedly the gradual withdrawal of some anti-crisis measures in the structure of budgetary expenditure. If economic trends were to take place in line with the expectations of Umar, which were presented to you in the preparation of the budget, then in 2011 some anti-crisis measures could be withdrawn, and therefore some policies that were highlighted in 2009 and 2011 have been highlighted, especially in terms of the competitiveness policy of the economy, and resources are slightly, not drasticly, diminishing. However, labour market, development and education expenditure remains at the forefront, as the government has assessed that they are linked mainly to the labour market because the effects of unemployment in 2011 are expected to not to be fully reduced and social security will therefore need to continue to be provided with relative expenditure. For science and research, however, higher education, the government has estimated that this is the point which can lead to the greatest increase in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in the long term. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. The 2011 budget has not yet fully planned the financial effects of the structural reforms to take place in 2010. While part of the expenditure of this amendment is already included, not entirely because at the moment legislation is being drawn up in this area at a stage where we do not yet have precise financial effects. The 2011 budget actually shows the framework in which we want to move and we will have to move in 2011 if we want to achieve the goal of reducing the public financial deficit in 2013 below the level of the Maastricht criterion, and there will undoubtedly be changes in the structure, in particular the expenditure side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Although I support that you have not come by amending the law to remove you from this planning for two years or preparation for a two-year budget, some conclusions or concerns hold. But I am worried about this part, this planned, expected investment investment in 2011, which is still expected to fall. I believe that, by means of the intervention law that we will adopt in these days, as well as with some, you have now mentioned, structural reforms, etc., we will probably come into some kind of momentum, and therefore, of course, I am concerned about this part, when you simply say, in addition to the plans for development programmes, that things are going down, at least 20 million euros is going to be reduced here. I believe it will be easier to plan and concentrate all activities around some projects. I would like to know in this context whether it can be expected that the programmes from the financial perspective 2011 - that is, in this part of 2010 and 2011, 2012, 2013 etc. - that this competence, even because you are transferring certain things to municipalities, is linked to what the state must do in this part, that we will be more effective in this work and that this complement will be the one that will enable the planned or already started projects to be realized at least at the time envisaged for this purpose. After all, it would be very good to hear whether you have any predictions that for 2009 we will meet these things, that we will fill the quota - in quotations - to the extent that we have planned. I am afraid that some of the projects that have been set up before, even in the previous financial perspective, will simply not be realized in this or at least in the initial part, because we are not solving some problems adequately. This was also discussed in the final accounts 2007, 2008 and is likely to be ongoing. Therefore, I am concerned about this work, when it is already planned that there will be an absolute reduction in expenditure for the purposes of national development programmes or the development programme plan, because if this means, and this means that the structure is still expanding or is increasing in that part of the consumption that relates only to the claims of "state bureaucracy" and not in that part that has multiple effects, as far as development is concerned. However, I am particularly interested in this part of how well you plan this part in this part from European funds. I have also understood that these 2011-2014 development programmes are so firmly intertwined with what we are planning together with the European Union in this financial perspective that they should not be reduced here, but should remain there unless there is also a redefinition of these resources on the part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. You want a word, mag. Stonewall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	I will try to answer Mr Anderlich to the questions raised regarding the European Union's funds. Our approach in the planning of funds or in the planning of expenditure financed by the European budget was such that in 2010 and 2011 we have actually included only projects in the budget that are in such a phase that they can start in 2010 and 2011 and which provide a relatively large assurance that the conditions under which we will be able to draw on the European budget will also be ensured during this period. Therefore, many of the projects that have already proved problematic in this debate are not in the development programme plan, they have fallen out because they are simply not at this stage, so to speak, in the stage of the decision to launch the project, so that the conditions for European funding can be met. This relatively conservative approach was taken from the experience of last year, when the gap between the European Union's planned funds and the European Union funds drawn were extremely large. We had approximately 46% of the planned funding in the final account for 2008. To prevent this from happening again, we have already tried to go more conservatively in the 2009 budget rebalancing and the same approach was taken in 2010 and 2011. It is therefore noted that in 2011 European funds are falling compared to 2010. Of course, we have the mechanism provided for in the Budget Implementation Act that projects planned in operational programmes can be included in the budget or in the Development Programme Plan, even during the year, if conditions are provided that the project can be implemented and that it will also lead to funds being reimbursed. And in this way, over the course of the year, this amount of European Union funding can be increased depending on the real possibilities, what will be achieved and how much money will be recovered. Let me now touch on the issue that has been raised, what will be the realisation of this year in drawing on the European Union's resources. There is no doubt that in this year, as in previous years, there have been relatively large problems in ensuring such conditions that funds from the European Union are undoubtedly exhausted. The procedures are complex, although we have introduced several new rules this year, which, of course, are not yet fully reflected this year, but we expect them to be more reflected in the second year. These rules are: reimbursement of value added tax as a eligible cost in all those cases allowed by the European Union, because in the past it has been virtually impossible in all segments. We have then introduced rules allowing prepayments from the home budget to end-users, in particular those end-beneficiaries who have the status of indirect budgetary user, as well as other budgetary users who have, say, the status of companies, but in these cases, insurance must be provided, and as an appropriate insurance instrument I have foreseen not only a bank guarantee representing a relatively large cost, but also a domiculated menu, which is a much more flexible and simple instrument for the one who must secure such payment. This is how we expect these instruments to help better draw on European funds and faster dynamics in the second year. As far as this year is concerned, we expect the realisation of 46% of the planned funds to move between 60% and 70% last year, which is undoubtedly a major step forward, but it is not what we want and expect that the second year will be precisely because of these instruments that I have cited, some of the instruments that mean simplification of procedures and some other shortcomings in the information system itself, which supports European funds and which have been eliminated in this year, are even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? There are no more reported and wishes to discuss, so I am concluding the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 25 November 2009, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a specific part of the 2011 supplementary draft budget. Does anyone want to discuss the specific part of the budget? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. No, not about the amendments. We will now consider a special part. Since no one else wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be tabled on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled by 20. 11. performed on the basis of this examination. We are moving to the user of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, to the sub-programme Support of Slovenians in place and abroad. We have an amendment from the SDS Group. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? He won't. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Finance and to the sub-programme of Country Obligations to STIZ. Here's an amendment from the SLS Group, someone wants to discuss it. He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving to the user Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Sub-programme Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk about it? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the subroutine of the same user, the operation of services and public institutions. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, where we have on the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads 14 amendments of various applicants. Who wants to discuss the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads? Please, Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. I'll try to cut it a little short. I will discuss three amendments, number 2, 3 and order number 4. As I said yesterday in a similar debate on the 2010 budget, we have spoken a great deal in this Chamber recently and have heard about the development-oriented budgets. Of course, what is development-oriented, we have the right to our views, our different approaches, and our different understanding of what development is and what enables development. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we say that development is not possible without transport infrastructure. In particular, these three amendments that I want to talk about are transport infrastructure, and these are intersections and circles. Specifically, the amendment number 2 is a intersection, in fact a circle, at the entrance to Zreče, it is on the main road of Zreče, it is said, Olipi - Rogla. The amendment number 3 is a crossroad on the main road between Celje and Maribor, the so-called Olipi Cross, where there is a breakaway for Zreče and Rogla. The amendment number 4 is the route on the main road of Slovenske Konjice-Poljčana, specifically in Tepanje, on exit or exit from the toll station from the motorway. There is probably no need to stress that transport infrastructure is particularly beneficial to the tourism economy, as tourism cannot be imagined without good roads, good road infrastructure. Since the Slovenian tourist infrastructure, the Slovenian tourist economy is pre-dominant for the domestic market, if I may call it Slovenian guests, and it depends on foreign guests, I can claim that foreigners are so spoilt with good road infrastructure and if we do not follow it, then do not expect foreigners to visit our tourist centres in a mass way. In a specific case, which I am talking about, it is a tourist economy in Pohorje, in particular in Zreča and in Rogla, because more or less all three objects are connected to the Slovaks or to Zreč and against Rogli. The next thing that seems important to me is that these three projects are not new, they are not the ones we would like to invest in existing road infrastructure projects in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but have been defined two years ago and are also in the construction programme and should be completed in the following year and in 2011. With this draft budget, these projects are indeed not deleted, this must be recognised, but as far as I am aware, no project has been deleted, but their construction has prolonged. Construction was extended to 2012, 2013 and for some projects it was also written after 2013. What that means is we probably can all imagine it. With these three amendments, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party wanted to return to the situation as it is now. If the 2011 budget had been adopted as envisaged, these funds would have decreased and construction would have been extended. That is why I said at the outset that we are not pushing for new projects, but we just want to return to the original situation, as envisaged by the budgets that were previously produced. Once again: these projects were planned for completion in 2010 and 2011. That's why we're proposing these three amendments. We have heard a lot about the development budget, you will surely agree with me that more than transport infrastructure you will find it difficult to find what is more developmental. Last but not least, we are not just an institute or a factory, but it is also a tourist economy. And the tourist economy is one that has particular meaning for our agriculture, because everyone knows that meat will probably be the most expensive on the plate, not when you sell livestock. The tourist economy is the one that sells on the plate. We have a lot of other advantages in the tourist area. To attract tourists, we must build transport infrastructure. Since we cannot boast that our winters have a positive impact on road infrastructure, we also have major problems where transport infrastructure is built because it needs to be restored. In addition, there are always new demands on transport work with development, and existing infrastructure needs to be restored and complemented. These three projects under order 2, 3, 4 are certainly those that have received all the support from the professional institutions. Everything is ready for construction and also money has been provided in the budget. Now with this draft 2011 budget, this construction is moving away. Yesterday evening, at the 2010 draft budget, I said that, given that we had heard at every opportunity this year, that, and why the previous government had not done so if it was so urgent. I also explained to you that everything had been prepared in the previous term, that money had also been envisaged for construction and construction had also started in many ways. But as for the projects, everything was ready. If we continue to do so, we should ask ourselves by which year the previous government should do all the work, or 10 years ahead, or just 5 years ahead, or maybe more. We heard that last night, but there were very few of us here last night. Today I see new faces and it is right to repeat that I would not discuss whether this project is really necessary or not in this fruitless debate. Projects are necessary and in the SDS we call for support and that the items remain as they were intended not to be extended or extended. Of course we ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	If there was a fellow Member present who saw almost every single thing as a conspiracy, I would say that this chapter is also a conspiracy. I was talking about a friend who's not here, not you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	A replica with no microphone. You'll be able to contact me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	You know who I'm talking about. I talked about it yesterday. Do you really think that there is too much money in the judiciary and that you can, in a sense, clean up everything from district, higher, and to the Supreme Court? Of course, I don't think you're serious about this. Yesterday, in the 2010 draft budget, there were practically so many amendments in this area that some items could be emptied. Of course, I do not support this, even because it would be right for you to disprove those eyewitnesses who go to this branch of authority, that is, the National Assembly, that we politicians do bear service to justice, by speaking abusively, by not knowing what, etc. I don't think it's possible to take things forward that way. If they were consistent with your proposals, the mere calculation says that after 2015, if we move forward with this trend, you would probably have to pay more from the courts because you would have already reached the level of survival or non-survival, but not to get something out of the budget for your activity. I have no objection to the fact that you and some amendments are such in this chapter - of course we are discussing all of them because I understood that this sub-programme or this user and on these sub-programmes is in fact the most expected and most desirable of individual representatives from certain environments. As it is said, I do not mind that you are changing within the structure of this ministry, because this is one way or another possible by a general provision to redistribute it from one project to another, if, of course, the requirements and conditions are such that it is done. There are some of those amendments. If the minister says it's possible because the structure doesn't change because it's not a reallocation between consumers, it's possible to do so. What we're talking about is the Ministry of Finance, if you're saying that we're not going to service the debt and we're going to put it on a road, it's possible. But what does that mean? It means that what would not be the goal of reducing public debt, reducing deficits and so on - we simply cannot do these things. That's why I just can't support such amendments. It may be possible to analyse, as we discussed yesterday, whether the plan in this budget segment is indeed true. I firmly believe that some of the things I see are critical; both transport safety and bottlenecks when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the frequency of people going to work and so on, but things stand and they are not dealt with. Is this a conspiracy, or is this intentional, because I don't know what it is? The fact is, in some environments, the conditions for an intervention to be performed are much faster than elsewhere. First of all, because the order, as someone said yesterday by the minister, by the director of the department and so on, is so strong that the activities are going faster. There are no other efforts and problems remain unresolved. A long time ago, a strategy was adopted, as well as a resolution on transport safety, and so on, where it was clearly stated that the following order should be followed: transport safety, transport frequency, economic interests and so on. This is how things in the approach are done properly. But the question is, because, after all, I say, we depend on how certain things are going on with those who are doing it and, of course, this effort is not going to be useful, it will not contribute to the fact that exactly the kind of thing that anyone wants to do, but it will have to be done within the debate. After all, with the Minister of Transport, the Road Directorate, with everyone else. I myself think that the extent of funds for this area is quite solid in terms of time, even though I would like more. On the other hand, as far as distribution is concerned, a discussion will have to be held elsewhere. So of all these 14 amendments, I don't see any of them that I could say, and it saves the fate of a place, of a province, it solves essentially one of those elements that I've talked about before, that is, security, economic interest and so on. But in each of these amendments, someone wants to change the dynamics of his place or what he is more interested in, to do sooner than he would have done. I can't get into this. I don't have my own roads, I don't have my own circle, and I don't want it either, because for me they are from the Hungarian border to Primorska, to the coast, or from the north to the south all my roads, ours, together, and I want to see that they are arranged so that they will ensure all that I have talked about before. However, this work is professional and the work of those involved must be asked if they deviate from these criteria. Therefore, I say, from the first to the fourteenth amendments, I cannot support any of these reasons. But I know I'll hear them when I get up there to those places under Pohorje: "You were against our road!" They will not say that we supported the so-called accelerated construction of Roglo Avenue, which is truly well-arranged and contributes to tourism, contributes to transport safety, contributes to the economy. As well, of course, if I go to the other end of Slovenia, where it is similar. In Prekmurje, they're saying it's my fault there's no seat belts, and I haven't talked about it once. But I supported it so it could move faster. But, Mr Verlič will know, because he laughs that if we skipped five, six years and the money was gone, it was probably a logical decision then to make a fast road or road the way we did, and we probably made a more transportable link between Prekmurje and say central Slovenia for ten years. But these were some decisions that depend on what you can and what you can't do. However, this is an area where there is no Parliamentary composition purely in each budget, because it would not be one of the most inviting debates and expectations that it can do, and this is also associated with the discussion of mayors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, constituencies in electoral law and so on, where this is reflected differently than reflected, if we try to look at that chicken and say so, in Slovenia we have to do this and do this, depending on the money we can do this year so much, the second year so much and everyone must get what they need as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I don't know now, President, we're probably discussing [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] We're all discussing everything? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	We are not discussing everything, we are discussing 14 amendments, a sub-programme for investment maintenance and construction of state roads, we are discussing crossings, periphery, and that is not all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Yes, I will, I'll be about as much as Mr. Anderlich. I'll stick to this order.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	I'll listen carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	I'd like to talk about amendment number five first. Amendment number 5 and I am pleased to note that this amendment will be supported by the coalition, because I was informed that the representatives really supported it and that is why I am very pleased that this has been announced in the local newspaper as well, and I am pleased to note that this matter will go through. But I'm a motion for an amendment. For a basic reason, because the road Celje-Dobovec, those who know tourist destinations in that end, I mean Rogaška Slatina and Podčettek, you know that this road is one of the most burdened roads in the country. I travel alone on this road, as well as fellow citizens, one hour to get to the highways and then to Ljubljana it takes 40 minutes. That's what I'm saying by saying that this amendment is very necessary. I thought it would be, but it is only 150,000 euros, which is actually very little, and it will allow the amendment number 5, and, of course, it will allow nothing special. It will only allow and only so that the plans can be brought down, nothing else. No shovel will be planted, probably, but at least that's what I'd like to make possible. Why I tabled this amendment. I am aware that the coalition intends or wants to overrun most of the amendments we have tabled. But since the local representatives of Zares have announced this, they will take care of this matter. Before the elections, they also protested on this road. Then I was surprised that they didn't table an amendment, so I made it myself. But I am very grateful that they will support him because we will do something good for this end. But if they don't support it, I'm going to have to make it public in the same newspaper as they voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I previously defended three projects of the Zreča Circle, the Lipa Crossroad and the Crossroad on the road of Slovenian Konjice, Poljčana in Tepanje. I would like to say that, given that this is also a tourist infrastructure, these three projects are also included in the project of the University of Pohorje. Since I don't have the habit of writing names anywhere and revealing how someone has been noisy, but you might say that most of them have not confirmed it, so let me say that I wouldn't name anyone, that a colleague who was worried that he would have problems if he came to Zreč or Pohorje I can say that we are hospitable there and that he doesn't have to be afraid and that he can come and be welcomed, we will make sure that this infrastructure is still needed. At our end, this respected colleague is always welcome, no matter how he votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. That's nice to hear. Mr. Sylven Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. That's nice to hear. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I need to mention something about that. When we're on the boards, there's always talk about how roads, circles are very important for the development of the economy, tourism, for the settlement of course, that's why we're talking about it because money isn't being shared at the time. [[...]] But when the money's not being shared, it's no longer necessary. I think that these projects, which my colleague from the SDS suggests that these projects are good, development-oriented, that these projects should be supported, and even when he mentioned the University, this is important for the University, so that, as far as this is concerned, I think it is right to expose and accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Someone else wants to discuss these 14 amendments. If he does not wish, I conclude the discussion on the sub-programme: Investment activities and we move on to the user: Directorates for Investment Management of JJI, sub-programme: Investment activities on railway infrastructure. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing this debate. We are moving to the user: Ministry of Environment and Space, Subprogramme: Improving the state of the environment. We have six amendments, if I've just counted it, that's right. Anyone want to discuss these amendments? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. We are moving to the sub-programme: Planning for water protection and water management. An amendment. Please, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. This is the continuation of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group in the 2010 budget. We propose an increase of €10 million, on a project entitled "Clean Ljubljanica", which includes a project for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water in the central and upper Ljubljana basin and covers the municipality of Borovnica, Brezovica, Cerknica, Logatec, Pivka, Postojna, Škofljica and Vrhnika. In fact, we responded to the call in the parliamentary group, including the mayors of these municipalities, who addressed the Ministry of Environment and Space with a full role for projects which, of course, include, as said, the construction of cleaning facilities, reconstruction, construction and modernisation and expansion of sewage systems. It is clear that the objective of "Clean Ljubljanica" is, in fact, to meet the legal obligations relating to the operation of municipal infrastructure, to further connect residents to the public sewage system and to cleaning facilities and to reduce emissions, harmful emissions into water. It is estimated that following the completion of this project, for which 60% of the cohesion funds are available, an important project could be connected, which is an assessment of 14 thousand new users, so 14,000 new users would be appropriately managed and also rehabilitated to complete the project in the area of these municipalities. The Government is in its own explanation, which is that this amendment is fully rejected by the government, also by the argument that they are in 2011, because, similarly, it was practically identical for 2010 to have been selected according to the criteria and guidelines of European legislation and placed on the priority list of the National Environmental Protection Programme. Yesterday, when we received, then only the Government's explanation, namely, what were these criteria, when a project was included in the list of European projects following these guidelines, of course, we received answers that it must have a high level, a reliable level, in short, some descriptive criteria as it appears. In particular, because I then asked, in the following explanation of the amendment, in view of the vague response of the representative of the Ministry of Environment, Mr State Secretary Kus, how can this be said that one of the projects, this is a specific cleaning plant in Logatco, still has a building permit, is that not sufficient reason to have a project set up? Thus, a building permit means that the congregation has put forth effort, time, energy, and resources to obtain a building permit. For me, this means that the project is operational and I really do not understand what this would be contrary to European guidelines and legislation. Similarly, all participating congregations have done so, and the full role has been given to the Ministry of Environment and Space. To end this argument of the amendment, however, optimistically. Yesterday, both the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State, said that there is a possibility that this amendment could somehow, if I understood correctly, be placed properly, is said in this draft budget and, of course, I propose that, in the interests of a cleaner environment, it be supported by all those 14,000 additional people who will be able to have properly implemented connections to the public network, but all of these amendments are also supported together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the subroutine for water planning, protection and management, the amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user: Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, subprogramme: Water planning, protection and management. Anybody want to talk about it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving to the user: Ministry of Health, sub-programmeHealth in demographically endangered areas. I do not see a desire to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving to the user: Ministry of Education and Sport, subprogramme: Gardeners. An amendment. I don't see a desire for a debate, so I'm closing the debate. Subprogramme: About primary education. An amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Excuse me, excuse me. Please, Mr. Tink Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The SDS Group has tabled an amendment, a sub-programme of primary education, namely the construction of the primary school Mirna kěk, in 1999 and there have been no 11 projects implemented or implemented under this programme. In 2007, the Ministry of Education and Sport renewed its call for these projects and a number of projects have not been completed. An invitation to tender for programmes was reopened in 2008 and several projects have not been completed. An invitation to tender was also announced in 2009, but it was not available and the funding from this call was also available for the construction of primary schools and kindergartens. That is why we have proposed an amendment to the Group of Members to transfer from the Ministry of Education and Sport unallocated resources from this area to a project to build a primary school and kindergarten in Mirna kheša, and the Government rejects this amendment. The funds will remain from 2009 and will be transferred to 2010. In addition, I should like to say that this project has been alive since 2004, that, on the basis of the proposals or conditions given by the Ministry of Education and Sport, the project has been carried out, the purchase of land and the cost of the municipality has already been spent over a million euros, that the current school has not been authorised for 40 years and that it has been used in the analysis of earthquake safety for half of the demolition school and that the municipality has in its budget and development programme plan all available investment resources for the construction of this school in 2010 and 2011. However, in its 2010 and 2011 programme development plan, the Ministry of Education and Sport has allocated the minimum resources for this investment and only in 2012 a few more resources, but only as much as it can bear VAT on the entire investment. Since last year the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which stipulates that the Ministry must finance 80% of the eligible costs, this means about 50% of the total investment no longer by law, the municipality has also drawn up an investment programme because we were told that if we do not comply with the law, the investment programme and the budget of the municipality are illegal. The municipality must respect the law in its acts, but the state does not. The amount of funds allocated to kindergartens in the coming years by 2013 shows the machete's attitude towards this issue, as the minister here also replied to parliamentary questions that this is a matter for municipalities alone, not for the state. The Ministry of Finance has stated that there is no investment in the appropriate use of funds and that they must be provided by the Ministry of Finance. However, individual ministries claim that there is an appropriate use for investment as well. I think that on the last Committee on Finance we have also said something about this, and also Mr Trofenik said that, which was the founder of this law, in 1994, I do not think that it is appropriate to spend money on investment in this financing. In general, the municipality is now faced with a big question about what to do with the investment because the investment was planned together with the Ministry of Education and Sport according to their criteria. First, it was a competition to choose variants, conceptual designs, then a multi-checked project at the Ministry of Education and Sport itself, which took years, and when we reached a coordinated project despite the maximum, long-term indebtedness of the municipality of this project, we cannot bring it under the roof. The municipality has no choice but to wait until the inspection closes primary school because it has not had a valid permit for 40 years and this project has been packed and sent to the Ministry of Education and Sport because it cannot be implemented by the municipality. In coordinating the average, we agreed with the Ministry of Finance that municipalities could use the means of efficient energy use in the following year and beyond to build such schools and kindergartens built under this programme, but I doubt that will happen. The deal wasn't signed, we're taking the budget. The problem of increasing enrolment in kindergarten is very big, this year 4 000 children are expected to be born more than last year, these children will knock on the door of kindergartens in a few years and I am interested in how the congregations will solve this problem. If, as Minister Luksic says, this is just a matter of municipalities - I do not think so - because some citizens have already brought an action against municipalities and the state because they do not have the opportunity to include their children in kindergartens. We'll probably have to wait for the outcome of these lawsuits so that something goes wrong in the government. Since this amendment does not take funds from other items, but only from an unallocated item from the same sub-programme, I propose that you support this and that the Government or the Ministry also begin to respect the legislation adopted, not only by the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Please Subprogram [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Mr President-in-Office [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Primary school, please, Mr. Ivan Grill. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	I'd ask if you'd let me have one chapter earlier because you flew so fast that I didn't have time to call.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Yeah, look at Mr. Grill. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	I didn't fly so fast, if you get out of the record, you'll see that I'm waiting, for a long time I've been waiting so that unfortunately I can't, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	In this case, Mr President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	Mr. Grill [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	You flew very fast because you didn't even [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	I have to deny it. [[...]] We can go take a look around, and I'm sure I've left enough time. It's not that I wouldn't want to let you do this, but in the National Assembly it's like that, if I let you do it once, then I'll always have to allow it. We have to get used to it. I'm sorry. Time is more than enough. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	That's why.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	I think I went through it peacefully, so I would say to you, for these reasons I cannot allow, I apologize, if not tomorrow you will be able to use the explanation of vote. [[...]] Now I'm afraid I can't give you that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Good. I'm not going to abuse the rules of procedure like most others, but I think it would be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	No, I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	for the Slovenian public to hear a comment on the amendment concerning the area of health, which I think is extremely hot at this time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	We are at the sub-programme: Primary Education", which Mr Zvonko Lah discussed. I asked if anyone else wanted to discuss the amendment to the sub-programme: Primary education. I guess not. We are moving to the amendment to the sub-programme: Help in secondary education where the amendment of the SDS Group was tabled. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] Please, peace in the hall, so you won't miss any amendments. I note that the amendment to the sub-programme: Help in secondary education is not wanted by anyone to discuss, so I conclude the debate. We are moving to the user: Ministry of Culture, sub-programme for investment in culture, where one amendment has been tabled. I find that there is no desire to discuss it, so I conclude it. This concludes the debate on the amendments. The vote on the amendments and the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 25 November 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anyone want to discuss the Development Programme Plan? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 25 November 2009, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the Law on Intervention Measures for Economic Crisis within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis was already a very large part of this budget, so I will try to make only a few key points in the introduction why the Government has actually decided to introduce the intervention law and why it has not intervened under the legislation governing fundamental rights. First of all, it is a law that should regulate some of the rights of the population in the short term in a different way than the laws of the home. There are five laws in the game: the Law on the salaries of officials, the Law on the system of salaries of public servants, the Law on the coordination of social benefits, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and the Law on kindergartens, and the Regulation on Public Sector Labour Performance. As a result of the one-year regulation of the coordination of benefits paid from public funds, the Government has decided to regulate this in a special law and does not interfere with these five laws which I have cited. There's another reason. The Government wanted this law to show clearly in one place that all recipients of all revenue from public funds would be treated in the same way, meaning that coordination would take place under the same rules and that there would not be one population in a more favourable or less favourable situation than the other. So much for explaining why the intervention law. Why are we even acting on a different arrangement for the coordination of revenue from public finances? Receipts from public finances represent around 60% of all expenditure in the state budget in total public finances. This means that their scope is so great that intervention in these rights can contribute significantly to reducing public financial expenditure. The second guide we had in doing so was not to detract from the existing scope of rights but merely to limit their future growth. In this way, the groups benefiting from these benefits should not be placed at social risk. Let me just give you a little bit of information for the illustration. The elimination of wage imbalances in 2010, this is said to be the case if the salary imbalances of the third quarter of salary imbalances in 2010 were to be eliminated by 120 million additional expenditure. Legislation was adopted in 2007 and is therefore falling into this legislation or preventing it from happening except in the proposed way. Synchronising "%s" The harmonisation of social transfers, the harmonisation of pensions and the harmonisation of wages under the current legislation would require approximately 80 million funding. We have estimated that, with half the harmonisation that is now envisaged, these funds could be significantly saved, so there is an intervention law before you that fully supports the solutions presented in the draft budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a work of the mother. I give the floor to a member of Bogdan Čepič for presentation of the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you, President of the National Assembly for your word. Nice greetings to representatives, ministers and representatives of the government. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 16th urgent session, on 13. 11. 2009 as a parent working body was treated as the draft law on intervention measures, due to the economic crisis submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for treatment or adoption under an urgent procedure submitted on 9. 11. 2009 confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text both in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in terms of technical legislation, and drew attention to the necessary editorial correction of Article 8. The amendments were tabled by the SLS Group on Articles 2 and 3. SDS Members' Group to Articles 1, 2, 3, and 4. The Coalition Parliamentary Group shall be open to Article 8. In the introduction to the explanation of the articles, the Minister for Finance pointed out that, in the face of the crisis situation, the Government's primary intention is to introduce short-term measures to reduce public financial expenditure, while the relevant structural reforms are foreseen in the long-term perspective, while in recent years we have recorded both wage increases and social transfers, subsidies for the payment of kindergartens, free food for secondary school and similar and pensions. The government considers that, in the context of the crisis situation, instead of seeking to reduce such pressure on public finances while ensuring payment of the above-mentioned benefits of the population to a legal extent. At the time of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that a comment, of a legal and technical nature, had been submitted, was taken into account in the proposal of the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 8 of the legislative proposal. In the broad debate, different opinions were presented, certain concerns were raised and individual questions raised. Thus, it was suggested by members of the opposition's kind that it would be more appropriate to amend the basic rules to which the proposal relates rather than to interfere with a number of certain provisions, inter alia, with regard to the actual harmonisation of the text with the social partners. The solutions are intended to be partial, while interfering with sensitive parts of the population, such as the benefits of social transfers, of pensions. At the same time, in other areas, there are registered exceptions to bankruptcy managers, supervisors of high-debt banks. Following the conclusion of coalition members, the proposal for a law in the current crisis situation is the only acceptable way to help resolve the global dimension of issues. A number of explanations or answers to the questions raised and concerns raised by the Minister responsible for Finance and a representative of the Ministry of Finance were provided to the Committee below. At the time of its consideration, the Committee, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the editorial amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS by Article 8. At the same time, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SLS Group on the deletion of Articles 2 and 3 or the amendment of the SDS Group on the amendment of Article 1 in the substantive context of the proposals to delete Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal. At the time of the vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted individual articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes both adopted amendments, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and is an integral part of this report. I propose that the proposal for a law that temporarily limits the growth of expenditure in all public finances as a contribution to close public financial consolidation at the exit from the current crisis situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As has been said many times before, we will not support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. It seems unacceptable for us to try to save at the expense of the state administration on the socially weak layers. The resolution of public finances by non-coordination or half-coordination of social transfers such as child allowance, child care allowance, large family allowance, child support, parental allowance, social assistance, compensation for the unemployed, disability allowance, assistance allowance and service, scholarships and so on is simply not appropriate in this situation. In the Slovenian People's Party, it still seems unacceptable for public finances to be saved at the expense of young families and children, if with a little good will much more money could be saved in other areas of spending, especially the state administration and its apparatus. Presentation of the start of the implementation of the amendments and additions to the Kindergarten Act, which provides for the provision of funds for co-financing of parental payments for a child who has completed the age of 5 years at the rate of 50% of the payment is said to be inadmissible. In your explanation for the law, the failure to implement these two measures would lead to serious disruptions in ensuring the sustainability of public finances, while in the context of the 2010 and 2011 budget debate we have seen an unacceptable increase in public spending on certain items, such as expenditure on goods and services and many other items where some budget consumers are unaware of the need and necessity of saving. It's understandable if the bag is empty, but there's nowhere to go. But why is it always empty for some, and for others this same bag is always and every time enough. The most difficult thing to do is to save on families, children, pensioners and socially disadvantaged segments of the population — those who defend themselves most. Some directors or heads of individual offices and so on, agencies that, as we have seen, all have more indexes than 100 are obviously much better able to defend or better defend higher spending than those I mentioned. In the context of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body, we proposed deleting Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law, i.e. the articles governing the subject-matter. Of course, we were overvoted. Let me stress, the Slovenian People's Party will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Emissary Groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The Honorable President. Dear Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. Nice greetings to visitors as well. The assessment of the financial implications shows that the implementation of this law will not increase expenditure in the 2010 budget, of course if we accept it. The government's intervention law, as stated by the Government, proposes a revised way of coordinating all revenue lost from public finances, thus salaries, pensions, social transfers as agreed with the social partners. It represents a new harmonisation of wages and in some ways ensures that, by harmonising and adopting these intervention measures, it will, of course, ensure the sustainability of public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I would like to stress the following. The government is trying to realize all legal rights, it is written, on behalf of the social state, which of course is not true, because today we will seek manca precisely in the area of salaries, pensions and essentially perverted family policies. From here, we are collecting a manna of money that is valued at around 400 million euros. Dear Minister, I asked you yesterday why the state does not pay contributions to full-time workers. Why are directors of state-owned enterprises whose majority ownership is the state, why do these directors receive more wages than the prime minister himself or ministers? Why don't managers who have destroyed good companies answer criminally? And of course, why did we not also write in these intervention measures that we will not only finance the work so that we can wait at home, short-term work time, but that we will, through these intervention measures, which should be supported, also financially stimulate new jobs, create new added value, give the first job, in short, enrich this tax field, grow it in some way, fertilize it, sow it, and wait two years later if anything else in this tax field is to be accumulated? No, we're just collecting from this tax field, and of course, that's not going to work. We now note that social transfers are allocated to individuals to an excessive extent and that we need to change the way these funds are allocated, this is what the law states. And, of course, that we only finance a job and invest only in those social transfers that are an incentive, can be an incentive to large companies waiting for a better time to expect orders in good condition, but to think differently, to innovatively also support programmes financed by international funds, i.e. Europe's grants, to enable young, prospective entrepreneurs to start their first employment and, of course, to develop new products in Slovenia, to find them abroad, and these intervention measures do not cover this. And that bothers me. The draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis cannot be complete if it does not have this, excuse me. We're just talking about putting out a fire that's already on fire. Of course, where will we get this money that we find will cause a deficit in the state treasury? Of course, I can agree with that. It would be a shame if we were against it, because then we would do even more harm than it has already done, but, dear Minister: when will we begin to think in the context of the fact that the tax is not only a self-evident matter and that where this bag is from which we are taking it, it is certainly always full. This bag has to be filled in some way. And the fact is, our unemployment is getting worse. By the end of the year, we'll have over 100,000 unemployed. These are the people who create the tax field. And the second year, we will be talking about the number of 150 000 unemployed in such a period, because you are assessing that this measure is essentially of a structural nature and that the economic crisis will have long-term consequences. But we have done nothing to take advantage of this economic crisis in some way, because we know that we can draw a lot of smart things out of it and start doing new products and new added value from this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Madam Minister, Minister with the Government's co-workers, President of the National Assembly, welcome. The intervention law that we received in our citizens' hearing and consequently sent us clear messages to the Members of the Republic of Slovenia - that the crisis is extremely deep, as it was imperative to cut into the extremely unpopular area of salaries of public servants and officials and on the area of pensions. The law before us today is the result of the hard work the Government has done in negotiations with the social partners. Above all, it is evidence that this government has a hearing for social dialogue as well as its application in practice. Why are we saying this? The original version of this law, which came to Parliament, was much more restrictive and also inconsistent with the social partners. Today, this law is harmonised, despite the fact that the government did not want it, and even less so did the social partners. The aim of the law is clear, namely to reduce the risk of public finances stability during the financial crisis, notably through a reduction of the public financial deficit. In order to achieve this objective, the content of the law in the field of transfers from the budget provides for: a half-time coordination of transfers under the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, an extension of the period for the implementation of co-financing of parental payments for children in kindergartens who have completed the age of five years – an extension of this period of one year, a half-time coordination: in view of the growth of the average wage, the growth of pensions and other pension and disability benefits. In the area of salaries of civil servants and officials, the law reduces public financial expenditure through: failure to eliminate the salary imbalances of officials established for 2010, half-coordination of public sector salaries, non-payment of regular work performance for 2010 and restrictions on the payment of part-time salaries on the basis of an increased amount of work not carried out under the title and resources of the specific project. With these unpopular but urgent measures that the Government has been forced to take, we will stabilise public finances in the short and medium term. As stated by the Government in the law, the adoption of this law will enable the implementation of the budget in 2010, otherwise it would constitute a serious disruption to the sustainability of public finances. As usual, the most vocal opponents of this law come from opposition types, where all or most of the articles of the intervention law would be deleted and when the budget was adopted, they roared over excessive indebtedness. This, however, simply does not stand up to sound reasoning, but it does not stand up to basic economic logic. Negotiations with social partners, unions, pensioners and, consequently, the adoption of this law are proof that the public sector must share the fate of the economy, since the economy is the one that generates added value and pays taxes primarily. However, we must all be aware together that there is still much to be done in the area of public sector rationalisation and optimisation, particularly through better organisation of all sectors: ministries, agencies, offices, public institutions and so on, to provide better public services and more efficient public services. In the field of public procurement, we also have additional tasks ahead of us, despite the fact that, in practice, this mandate has managed to place public procurement within appropriate frameworks. In LDS, we have in mind the procurement agency in particular. In view of the situation we are in, in the Slovenian Liberal Democrats' Chamber, we understand intervention measures as an urgent evil, which we must accept as responsible coalition Members, and we will therefore support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. No one is satisfied when measures are taken to reduce or even partially eliminate the emancipated system of coordination or implementation of social transfers, wages and pensions, even though this is a short-term measure. Unfortunately, this is precisely what is needed for 2010 and 2011 due to the deep financial crisis. Economic relations have a strong impact on the level and structure of budgetary expenditure in 2009 and will have an impact in 2010 and 2011. The government has proposed to freeze all coordination of social transfers, public sector wages and pensions during this period. It is understandable that such a radical measure has not received support from the social partners, nor has it been wider. Although the public financial situation is rather tense, the Government has decided to seek a compromise with the social partners, which would allow for a sustainable burden on public finances as well as recipients of social transfers, salaries from the budget of the State and local communities and pension recipients to achieve a minimum backlog of coordination in terms of wage growth. And that's what you did. The aim and main solution of the law is to ensure that the rights already acquired are not affected and that the level achieved in 2009 is maintained for all expenditure. Above all, it wanted to reduce the pressure on the 2010 budget and consequently also in 2011, although the law was in force until 31. 12. 2010 After a long-term agreement and convincing the social partners and the government that people with the lowest income, despite extremely low inflation, are living harder each day, a compromise has been reached to allow the elimination of wage imbalances to be postponed to the end of 2010 so that the value of wage classes is not harmonised and does not increase in 2010. Not to pay in 2010 a part of the salary for regular work performance, that it is still possible to pay part of the work performance on the basis of the increased work volume, from savings generated by the user from the revenue generated by the absence of public servants, or from the absence of jobs, in order to align pensions with 50% wage growth and that social transfers will not be coordinated with inflation, as inflation is projected to be extremely low. The social partners have reached an important agreement and therefore thank them for the efforts they have made and allow the deficit to be reduced in the state treasury, or it will be possible to fund some development project slightly better. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Other visitors, too. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the law before us on intervention measures, due to the economic crisis to the extent that it was adopted on the home committee, we cannot adopt it and we do not support it. We have proposed amendments to delete that part of the law relating to the coordination of pensions and social transfers, but we have been rejected. We believe that it is unacceptable to save on the basis of the proposal of this law on the basis of the socially weakest layers, on the account of young families and pensioners, at the expense of those who have paid a fair wage for their pensions throughout their working life. Savings in children, in the case of disabled persons, in the case of mentally and physically disabled persons, in the case of breeds is also unacceptable. Above all, it is unacceptable to save at the expense of young families. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree that the burden of the crisis is borne to the greatest extent by those with the lowest benefits and those with the lowest pensions that have already been hit so much and so much. We would expect the burden of the crisis to be overtaken to the greatest extent by those with the highest remuneration. For this reason, solutions could be adopted which, at the same time as austerity measures, would also determine the level of the lowest wage allowing for normal survival, solutions that would at the same time allow the level of the lowest pension allowing for normal survival and which would at the same time significantly burden those with higher remuneration and higher wages. At this time, when we hear about the need to save money in those who have nothing to save, we read about the receipts of individual administrations of more than 100,000 euros. At that time, public consumption should be tied to a certain percentage of gross domestic product. At a time when the country is facing serious development problems and is looking for savings solutions, for those who cannot defend themselves and for those who have nothing to save, the Slovenian Democratic Party would expect the Government to come along with measures to promote economic growth. No such measures, including those proposed by the opposition, were fully rejected. Unfortunately, the government has done nothing, even in the area of rationalisation of public spending, especially in the area of bureaucratic work of the state, and has done nothing in the area of better management of our common assets, where a number of savings could be sought, but let me mention only some: for some time now there has been a government plane of falcon, a matter which is relatively simple and which would have been settled by successful bureaucracy within a few weeks, some millions of euro damage has been done in this last year. The government is weak in the management of state property. With about a thousand empty apartments owned by the state, the government is buying other apartments. The government has also done nothing to alleviate the burden of those who have the lowest income anyway. Let me put here one example that could be very quick and easy to solve. In these difficult circumstances, many municipalities have listened and set up self-initiative arrangements with individual savings banks and savings banks in a way that relieves citizens of the burden of paying the bills and takes over part of the burden of this bank commission on their shoulders. The government could have done that. The government indirectly owns two of Slovenia's largest banks - the New Ljubljana Bank and the New KBM, and with the relevant policy it could significantly affect this area, but we know that the payment of services is used in the most classical way by pensioners and those with the lowest benefits. Not only was there no such measure, even when the proposed measures were in the sense that without any financial burden the costs of banking would be rationalised and the fees reduced, but it was not as if the Government were pursuing the goal of making even greater profits in this situation for those who already have the most money. All of these are the reasons why we cannot support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is mainly for those who are already the most disadvantaged in these economic circumstances, but we hope that at least the amendment we have tabled in the legislative procedure will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you. As Mr Willi Rezman has not concluded the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. We have a Article 2 and an amendment to this Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Well, in the opening presentation of the Group's position, I pointed out that it is not appropriate to save on the back of those who have already squeezed the last hole in the belt or had to pierce another hole in order to survive. We do not think it is appropriate that this law restricts the already low remuneration of those with the lowest remuneration to the socially weak layers of young families and pensioners, so we propose that this area be exempted from this law in this area. We believe that this policy taken by the Government in the field of this law on intervention measures is a long-term wrong policy. Slovenia has experienced appropriate economic indicators over the past three years, which have begun to deteriorate and collapse over the last year, and has also experienced something that should also be supported and upgraded in these circumstances. I'm talking about an increase in fertility. In Slovenia, the birth rate has increased over the last three years, and every year more births are recorded, and this trend is also interestingly seen in the future. I think that smart state policy should do its utmost to continue this trend in the future by measures that make it easier for families with multiple children. This trend also depends on the long-term way in which pension money will flow into the system. Only more productive people, more jobs, are said to be able to help us to have a long-term pension system that will be significantly more sustainable than forecasting us according to the birth rate we witnessed five, ten or fifteen years ago. The policy pursued in this law deviates from that principle. This policy says, if I simplify it, it's not good to have children anymore. That's what this marriage says, which is bad. Despite the fact that the law applies only for one year, it is some signal, some direction given by the state to the population, which I think is negative. This is one part that is very important. The second part that seems important to me is that there is no gap between those who have little income and those who have little more income. Among these are we who, remember, reduced wages by 4% at the beginning of the year. But what's important is that main impulse that we should follow in all the other segments, and it's not. In the case of large populist words, how the highest wages will be taxed, the highest remuneration, remember only the big words about the multi-million-dollar prize, about several hundred thousand euros of heavy payments in individual companies. Of these big words, how this part will be regulated, there is nothing left but that the burden of the crisis will be more equitablely distributed between those who bear it more easily and those who bear it more. On the other hand, there are no measures to relieve those with low incomes and low incomes from this burden. There's nothing. However, what is crucial to me and, in the long term, not only for the period 2010 and 2011, is a major problem, given the gap between the revenue and expenditure of the public budget, is that there are no measures taken by the Pahor Government to accelerate economic growth. These scissors, which tell us about the 1.8 billion deficit this year, will increase by a billion 800 million deficits in 2010 and 2011. For this reason, I believe it is essential that, once we have adopted this amendment, we force the Government to think about other measures, measures to be taken where they can produce relevant effects and relevant results.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State and others! The different approach taken by the current government in view of the approaches we have had so far when we are talking about interventions to rights acquired, when we are also talking about providing money to the budget and, of course, servicing all the needs of the budget, is very evident in this law and also in the discussions. If I illustrate this difference on a few points, it is more obvious that in the past we have been working through economic activity and economic burdens both in the field of unnecessary bureaucratic activities and in the field of taxation, so to speak, to promote economic growth, to promote creativity, to promote the resulting inflows into the budget by generating more production and the result of this larger production has also been more paid taxes. That is why we have also been able to afford in the past, even though we have reduced public consumption in percentages of gross domestic product, we have also been able to afford interventions to the quality of life of people by legislation by, for example, adopting laws that allowed free nutrition for secondary school children and so on. On the one hand, we had a policy which, through the promotion of economic activity, provided sufficient inflows to the budget, so that part of the means could be devoted to raising the standard of living of people. We also wanted a part of this economic growth to be transformed into the well-being of all, and through different policies we also wanted to promote what was needed to be encouraged. But if we look at it now, it is, in fact, because of the lack of these measures to promote economic activity, the government has found itself, for the first time, limiting, in particular, where the government is the least in pain and people are in pain. That's what it says. It interferes with pensions and interferes with social transfers. Not only that, but instead of reaching out to the consumption of a country where it could actually do something positive by limiting consumption, it is also likely that the effects of the sensitive layers are the most likely to be the quiet ones. Instead of thinking about it, this is especially to be done for next year or throughout 2011. Instead of thinking about how citizens and the economy need unnecessary bureaucratic tasks, unnecessary institutions, unnecessary consensus, that is, if someone wants to build or do anything in life today, they need to visit at least 10 to 20 different offices and institutions. Instead of burdening people with the costs and also the time they spend on these tasks and thus thanking them for their cooperation and closing down a number of agencies, institutions, funds and certain parastatal institutions, there is a reduction or cutting where it is easy to cut off and where those cutting are also relatively quiet. How else did the government do that? On the one hand, it cuts and, on the other hand, introduces new taxes that it wants to put into the budget some more money, and the same ones that are cut off from the income, additionally burden them and raise their costs of living. I will probably not say for the first time if I say that the budgets for the next two years are already introducing new taxes and some of the existing taxes are being drastically increased. I have already mentioned the environmental pollution levy on CO2 emissions several times. The budget already for the following year 2010 provides that the country will collect these duties five times more than in 2009, from the current EUR 30 million in the following year it intends to raise € 151 million. And since I have a secretary of state from the Ministry of Finance here, I ask her: What needs, what specific needs, what services, which energies, what will be encouraged in Slovenia? Who will feel these 120 million additional environmental charges with CO2 emissions? Will this be felt by all the citizens who buy the burning oil that we buy from fossil energy consumers, or will this pay the economy? Fine, we call ourselves making the economy even less competitive, we are tying it even more with a tax cap. Who's going to pay this 120 million euros? You've exactly written that this will be in the budget as revenue next year and I'm asking you from where, and what and who will pay for it? Will those you are interfering with today’s reconciliation of pensions pay for this? Will pensioners who are likely to be heated with fuel oil, including gas or fossil fuels pay for this? Why am I repeating this burning oil? Because the director of the department is a mag. Janez Kopač said in numerous interviews for energy newspapers that the price of heating oil would be closer to the price of oil on petrol services. That means she'll be irritable for cca. 70%. This will also undermine or raise the cost of living, not just the likelihood of households, but also the economy. And it is likely that those who are now interfering with the reconciliation of pensions will have some major difficulties in paying for the future of these bills, even those with miserable pensions. That's the first thing I want to say. On the one hand, two approaches, instead of encouraging the economy to breathe and generate those revenues into the budget, you go against them, cutting people off what they deserve, and on the other hand you put additional tax burdens on them. The worst way out of the crisis or the exit or exit scenario, whatever you call it, is to raise taxes in this country. That's the worst-case scenario. But I can see that this has become some kind of practice. Not only are you charging the environment with CO2 emissions, but you are predicting a property tax that is likely to be cut completely by everyone, not only by those who have some superstandard real estate. You are forecasting in the budget memorandum that you will ensure that this law will be implemented in 2011 and that at least half a percent of the gross domestic product will be in force, that is about €180 million more in the budgets of local communities and, of course, also as a result, or indirectly, of the country at that time. That is to say, if you provide these 180 million additional inflows, these 2 million people in Slovenia will be around €90 per year. But if we know that we have three-member families, 90 times 3 is kind of about 270 to 300 Euros of extra burden on a family. If we get very generalized and we get very average. If not, tell me how you will provide this 180 million in the 2011 budget so that those to whom you are interfering with this law will not feel that way. Allow me one more thing, because I see that many Members of the coalition don't really understand either. Pensions are not social transfers. Yesterday we heard that pensions are social transfers. Pensions are farmed, cashed for old age paid by people through insurance, through 40 years of insurance, employers paid contributions each month from their gross salary. We have a law that also requires a gross salary to pay this contribution, and it eventually pours it into a cash register called a pension box and under an intergenerational principle belongs to a pension under certain conditions to the people who have earned it. This is an acquired right arising from insurance and no social transfer. I don't know how it's possible just so arbitrary to cut down on the coordination of these acquired rights, especially on the fact that what you're about to cut off now, what you're going to deny the pensioners, you're never going to pay back. I would also understand that in times of crisis, in fact, everyone who lives, works in this country in proportion, and is also told that those who have something gained back, and I do not know, in 2011, we will return what we took from them. Because it's only fair and right. But no. You are only planning to reconcile pensions half a year from now, which means that, according to the data I have heard, you will save the budget somehow about €60,70 million and, of course, you will never return this money to the pensioners. None. At least the ones with the lowest pensions. Probably because someone can't survive it either. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are opposed to such unequal intervention in rights. To some, it is possible for some, some, but to those who live on the brink of survival, but to those without shaking hands, they reach into the rights they have acquired. I think this approach is unfair. It is unfair that we have practically half a year at the time of the economic crisis on the table a bill which, for example, grants judges the right to higher wages when notaries are given high-priority decisions and at the same time interferes with the pensions of those who have EUR 400 per month of pension, as well as all other social transfers, children's allowances, care allowance, protection and so on, a whole bunch of these supplements. This is, for the first time, a disproportionate measure, and for the second time it is unjust because it is not distributed across the entire population with the same weight. And that's the problem with this marriage. This law affects only some segments, but it does not affect other segments, so there is no argument and there is no support in our parliamentary group. The part I was talking about is pensions and social transfers, that is, what you are interfering with is also not consistent with the social partners. You wrote in this law that it is consistent with the social partners. Yes, it is coordinated in the work that you have aligned with the unions of public servants, and that is only in the work and with the judges. So it's normal that he's in this part with the judges, because they finally pulled the plus. However, it is not consistent with those who are concerned with their rights, especially pensioners. Yesterday, the Minister of Public Administration and I found out why. Because it was easy to reconcile with the social partners in the area of pensions because these representative social partners were not there. There are different societies here, the Union of Retired Associations and so on. And if, with respect, at the Ministry or in the Government, you have coordinated with the President of the Alliance of Retired Associations, I do not know why you did not coordinate with the seniors and seniors of the Slovenian Democratic Party. They also represent this group. And they, as well as the Alliance of Retired Associations, are not representative in this area. No, you've only chosen some to negotiate, and that's not right. At the very least, it is right to write that the law is socially harmonised. Then the man thinks, yeah, because all the solutions in the law are agreed upon by those who tange them. They didn't! This solution, which interferes with pensions, is not consistent with pensioners. It's not! Please, when the Government is so eager to intervene on the instrument of the previous legislative referendum, write it down and let the pensioners vote on this innovation so that they can be fully coordinated and you will see the results. Your head's gonna hurt. This law is also not harmonised in the work which interferes with social transfers and with the half-time coordination of social transfers, nor is it harmonised there because there is also no representative social partner. So, the law interfered with the salaries of public servants, the law interfered with social transfers and pensions, but only with public servants. So, there are no two-thirds of harmonisation and it would be difficult to write and it would be right to write in there that the law is only harmonised in a work that interferes with public servants and judges as a real minister, but it is not in the others, and therefore it seems unfair to talk about indisputability or some conflict of solutions if they are consistent with the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party. After the complexity of the coalition on the working body, that is, the Committee on Finance, when it actually knocked out Article 1 itself, mossed the way in which this Article brought in Article 1 as well as Article 2a. Article 1 We've amended that 2a. Article 1 of the preceding Article in such a way that this law does not regulate the reduction, coordination of pensions and that this law does not regulate the reduction, coordination of social transfers. We have proposed that the same thing be deleted from this law, which is not consistent with the social partners. That part of the law, which is not in line with the social partners, is that we do not interfere with the coordination of pensions and that we do not interfere with the coordination of social transfers. I think that this is right and that the government can come with a law that will reach the rights of everyone in this country on the same scale, and then we can engage constructively in the discussion of interference with this type of rights acquired.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, made a statement on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll take my turn. On the government side yesterday or today, no one claimed that pensions were social transfers [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I thought that on the government's flight my expression was strictly based on that all revenue from public finances. [[...]] [[...]] It is said that these benefits have a different character. Secondly, harmonising the law with the social partners. In the text of the law you have, I will not go into this discussion again because yesterday I think I have explained the whole process of harmonisation of this law and anything else related to the budget. But we have written in the law that the individual issues regulated by the law were consistent with the social partners, which clearly shows that what was coordinated has been done and that what the social partners have as public and clearly expressed social partners has. In the case of salaries, this is clear, for other forms which are not covered by this Act, of course, by the social partners in this form, and therefore coordination has not been ensured in this way. Another time. Unequal interference with rights. That's not true. It was the intention of this law and then the amendment of the Law of Intervention that the Government submitted to the National Assembly had before it that all recipients of all benefits from social registers or from public finances would be treated in the same way. No one else has been treated. Prizes in state-owned enterprises are not public expenditure. However, I am not saying that these awards should be unlimited and should be encouraged to have them at a high level. On this segment too, the government reached out with instruments that it had at its disposal and limited its prizes and benefits. However, not to put everything in the same basket, this has no impact on the public spending we are discussing in the budget. Of course, it can indirectly affect a number of matters, and the Government has also intervened in these matters. With regard to the claim that we are interfering with the rights in question, that is not true either. Rights remain unchanged. We are changing only the way we coordinate in a situation of relatively low inflation, or we have faced even deflation until recently. You said that in the past the government has promoted economic growth and thus has been able to guarantee a relatively high level of rights. Yes, this was done in a situation of economic growth that was definitely not provided by the previous Government, as you yourself have said, and everyone who understands little about the functioning of the economy knows. In the context of the global economic crisis, which is not limited to Slovenia alone, such a high level of individual rights cannot be increased. And that we can guarantee all these rights, which have been directed towards relatively high economic growth and adjusted revenues, we have limited only their growth. And it's written in this intervention law. With regard to individual rights and the integration of this intervention law with birthrates in Slovenia, I think you are going a little too far here. If this intervention law, which will ensure, instead of a 2% growth in children's allowances, 1% growth in children's allowances in 2010, will affect Natalie, then I really don't think we know what the elements of the naturalistic policy are. The child allowance in the lowest income class is EUR 113 for the first child and EUR 136 for the third child. The minimum net salary is EUR 450. Look at the relationship! This children's allowance is undoubtedly far more than a natural policy element, but it is a strong social correction with the minimum wage we have, and unfortunately this economy is not capable of providing them at a significantly higher level at this time. Just looking at family benefits and parental benefits. Of the 558 million in 2008, we will be providing 644 million in 2010, that is to say, 100 million more for the valorisation or coordination we are talking about. I think it is entirely unjustifiable to say that the Government here is interfering with the scope of the rights and work of the poor even more poor. Another matter that you've linked to this intervention law. What will be more expensive in the future and how those who are recipients of all the recipients of public finances will suffer a greater shortage. At the time of the 2011 budget, I said that the Government had not planned to increase any tax burden in the 2011 draft budget. The prices of utilities and some other prices are not in the government's hands, you know that. As far as energy is concerned, I will not comment on Director-General Kopač's statements, because I do not know them, but I assure you that in the budget, when we have taken into account the tax on oil derivatives, value added tax and excise duty, we have not taken into account any different excise policy than what we are implementing this year. This year, excise policy is quite adaptable to the actual situation. As you have seen in the last two months, the Government has not always kept excise duty at an unaltered level in order to maintain prices and thereby increase inflows to the state budget, but has also reduced excise duty several times to change the price. This is said not only to be followed by the Government in this area, but only by the aspects of the filled budget register. As far as additional or burdensome populations and pollutants are concerned. It is true that the Government has entered in the budget memorandum and also in the budget for 2010 and has foreseen additional revenue from the polluters, the so-called CO2 tax, which meant an overall set of environmental duties to be increased. However, if you look closely at the law on the implementation of the budget, you know that this is a dedicated income. If this increase is not yet proposed by the Government, of course there will also be no such expenditure relating to assigned revenue. Perhaps just something else about wages, which have also been mentioned several times. First of all. The salaries of public servants or all employees in the public sector were fixed in 2007. Regardless of high economic growth, which allowed relatively high expenditure on all segments. In 2008, there was no total elimination of wage imbalances. But the previous Government has decided only to eliminate one quarter of the wage imbalances and the next three quarters have moved into the years in which we are now facing an economic crisis. This is said to mean that the economic situation did not allow such a strong single blow at the time for the realization of all wage imbalances, as it was clearly already estimated that this was too much a burden for a single increase. We cannot bear this burden in given economic conditions, and we are putting it into better times. This burden is simply too great. Even under normal conditions, as confirmed by the previous Government, it cannot be eliminated at once. Another thing you mentioned. He's paying the judges. The salaries of the judges were increased in the manner set out in the law, assuming that the judges received no allowances, no addenda for the increased work volume, no addenda for work performance. We have already been satisfied with the amendment to the 2009 Budget Implementation Act, but everything else comes under this intervention law, and of course also the Law on the salaries of judges. This means that judges are not treated in any other way than everyone else in the public sector. I think I answered most of your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Let me start at the beginning. The Secretary of State said who said the pension was a social transfer. Here I have a magnetogram of yesterday's debate in the National Assembly, when the Member of Social Democrats, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, said: "The previous government has already divided social transfers into two groups, namely, pensions that are valorized according to wage growth, and other social transfers, among which..." and so on. Why did I say that? Because pensions in this ruling coalition are obviously treated as social transfers. And that's the problem, because pensions are not social transfers. And, Madam Secretary of State, I cannot agree with you that when you interfere with the coordination of pensions, you do not interfere with the rights you have acquired. It is not only the absolute amount of the pension that someone has earned that can be valued over the years because of inflation and other things. Therefore, I believe that it is a solid, economically sustainable but correct way of harmonising part of the pension package at the same time. That is why I said that intervention in the coordination of pensions is also an intervention in the acquired right. If you say otherwise in the title of economic theories, of course it is legitimate, but it is not fair to those who are recipients. Next, "rewards in state-owned enterprises have no impact on public-financial expenditure" - no, but on public-financial inflows. In fact, if someone in a state company in which the state is a member state, a shareholder, allows enormous payments, then, of course, less remains for that shareholder, who finally collects part of the profits. So if it's possible for the manager, if it's possible for others, to manage it, the state can't get it because it's gone. It is true that the country can sit on this income through taxes, but that is less than what is distributed. I want to say that this is not entirely true, it is not true at all, and that the part that those in state companies receive is the part that would go to the country otherwise. In fact, if I have understood the Secretary of State correctly, it does not need a comment on my part at all, because it itself makes a comment when it speaks of the new mode of coordination that you are now proposing with the Social Transfers Act as little as possible in that it does not make sense to talk about it. If that's true, why are you proposing this law? If it is true that it reaches so little into a child’s allowance if it so little affects this and that right from social security, then why this intervention, and why bother these people in fact? I cannot agree with you, Madam Secretary of State, that this measure is proportionate and has hit all layers of the population. They're gone. Some segments of the population have been given these measures by the government and some layers are taken. And that's not right. This was resisted by the previous government, so it got a lot of manure on its head, sentences were because one segment of people in Slovenia did not recognize what they thought they were doing. The current government gave them this. If we look at the balance sheet of these groups over the course of this year, we can figure out that some have profited, even though, I don't know, they're going to be given five, they're going to be subtracted by half, but they're still at four and a half plus. You said, if you did, otherwise we wrote in the budget to collect more environmental pollution tax on CO2 emissions, but we'll see about that, we don't know what's going to happen, I didn't hear anything from you about who's going to be burdened, how it's going to be loaded, but you're already predicting this in the budget for next year and you're saying that this revenue is dedicated. That's right. It's in the budget. Yesterday we listened to the coalition's praise, how much will this government give for the efficient use of energy, for renewables, yes, from where, if not from this source, if this is intended? Nor will this praise be given if there is no such income and because we do not know who the mercenary will be would be very difficult to boast about who will receive the money. One more time. I think it would be most important for this government to focus on how to create new jobs, how to lead social policy through the development policy of creating new jobs, not by driving the budget through the introduction of new taxes on the one hand and on the other through the limitation of expenditure to all groups also on the social side. I don't think that's right. More effort is needed, in some way with more input, work and energy to secure the revenue of the budget. Just one case. Today, we read that there is a huge need for workers on the one hand, on the other hand, for unemployment to increase dramatically. Wrong world! How is it that we have, despite the enormous needs for workers, an army of unemployed, which the country pays them a great deal of transfers. There is a need to look for these solutions for budgetary problems, not for those who receive social transfers and those who receive earned pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you. Because it's been signed up, I'm opening the application. Mrs. Black Nebula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much. As I said before, and even yesterday, I somehow implied that my intervention was misunderstood. I have made it very clear that the same status as pensions also have other social security rights arising from the payment of contributions under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Health Care Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. I stressed that we are talking about two differences: social assistance and social protection rights. And that the same status of treatment already in the Act on the coordination of social transfers from 2006 would also belong to these forms of remuneration. That's what I was talking about, and I said it was wrong and that based on [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, because you quoted what I said that the same forms of treatment of all forms of remuneration do not apply. [[...]] The other thing that kind of surprises me here is that, in fact, it wants to premise the burden of an individual with this intervention provided by the State through the intervention law. I said that, of course, no right has been violated or reduced, but that this half-level coordination will not be reflected at such high levels. And I quoted the calculations. One calculation shows that coordination with the level of inflation and with 100 euros of the child supplement and with practically zero inflation is a minimal effect of this half-coordination. It's a little bit bigger for pension recipients, but not as big as you'd like to show it here. I said that at 1% of salary increases, 500 euros in pension would be known to be 2.5 euros per individual or 30 euros per year. And if we take into account the number of recipients of these social transfers or other benefits, then we find that, in fact, at aggregate level, we get savings and that is not known to a greater extent on an individual level. I think it is more important that we maintain the same scope of the rights we have, which are very difficult to preserve during times of crisis, and we know that many countries do not, in fact, tolerate and intervene in these rights. This government has decided to keep this in order to do things in line with its income capabilities. In any case, a comprehensive system change, which I have already indicated, is being prepared, including in the area of social security recipients, which will ensure a higher level of minimum social security, a drastic increase in minimum social security, and is much more important than the effect of this intervention law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Whatever the case, in the Slovenian People's Party it seems unacceptable to try to save through this law at the expense of the socially weak layers to save public finances by halving the coordination of social transfers that we have already mentioned several times, in the fact that we are already alerting some budgetary consumers who have not been touched by this crisis for the second day. Some budget consumers simply do not know the situation of this country, they do not care about social transfers, anything else. The important thing is that they get what they need. Please explain to me, and I have been asking this for some time now why the General Secretariat of the Government, which was scheduled for the year 2009 14.9 million, cannot survive in 2010 or 2011 with these poor 15 million to have more than 17 million planned for 2011, that is more than 2 million more. Let me explain this, and when we explain this to citizens and citizens in this country, we will also understand this law that is before us today. Recently I received an electronic message and a lady writes, I will say a little differently: "Let's ask ourselves, bumblebees, how to survive 90% disabled with 400 euros of pension for 34 years of work and 63 euros for 90% of disability. She has a hernia and a relapse of cancer, so she has to go to Ljubljana twice every month." How? No way, you can't. And it would be fair to deal with cases such as the fact that, through the budget that we have discussed and today the second day, all those who have acted as they have behaved to behave a little more responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	The debate on the amendments, of course, requires that I should not be able to support myself until the amendments and the amendments. Because in the way that the proponents think it is, I would say quite unserious, when they think that intervention measures, which at this time should be extensive, can cover virtually all of these matters. Of course, when trying to prove that some layers in this country are more threatened, what we all know and what the whole public knows, I don't know if it's justified that we're here to potentialize and abuse these pressures in a way that, when we don't adopt this intervention law, some people don't deny it or we could have more because they would take it everywhere. After all, we also had a debate yesterday and today, especially yesterday, it was interesting how to reduce spending by €800 million. There is also the Ministry of Labour and Social Transfers in that part. How's it going together? On the other hand, only if we temporarily limit the remuneration of public servants or public servants and officials or officials will we achieve these effects. You just can't do that. Does anyone think that anything they want to sell to the Slovenian public and report to the coalition how irresponsible it is and does not reach where it is? Yes, of course, relatively solid status and solid salaries are given by public servants when we speak in comparison with social transfers, such as social support and supplements, which some receive to at least minimum ensure conditions, as well as to compare with some other things, but these are simply incomparable things. And I cannot support these amendments in this direction to exempt certain groups. I think it is necessary for all social groups to share the relative or inverse burden of the crisis. And that's how this action is done, so I understand it. Some data have already been told today how the segment is the most vulnerable and those the country has to help. And it helps them. A number of things have been adopted in this mandate. After all, let's say the issue of the intervention law for Pomurje, where a large part is in the social transfers segment or support for those who have lost or will lose their jobs under these conditions that are there not to talk about other things. But to say that it hurts you the weakest of those who have more is not right. And that's why pointing your finger through this amendment as to how you know where it can be taken and where it is, I don't think it's right. I won't use any other words. That is why I believe that this intervention law is made so that, through the 2010 budget and until the crisis comes out, it can deliver results, and in particular protect those we need to protect, that is, the weakest. And it can be that former Minister Kopač has an idea of how he will tax the fuel oil and so on and I believe that we will not allow it until there are other alternative measures to come from this source of heating to another one, because ultimately the fuel oil is primarily intended for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. With this law and this amendment, of course, we will not do unless it is adopted in this country by some two hundred and fifty thousand citizens who are even poorer, but it is true that they will remain on what they have. That's not that big. As regards social transfers, it is really painful and I fully agree with all the debaters that they will not be valorised. It is true, however, that the original sin in the adoption of this law in 2006 was high economic growth in 2007, and that year, due to the found low inflation, they received nothing. And, of course, the basis on which valorisation is supposed to flow under this intervention law is so much lower. We'd be in a better position if we didn't adopt this law. As regards interference with acquired rights, I must say that there are some provisions of the Constitutional Court that allow this when it comes to rights below what someone has within the legislation. For example, when the pension reform was adopted, a number of applications for constitutional review of the law were made on account of the reduced ratio and coordination of only those who did not have the highest pensions, and the Constitutional Court attached this possibility to them to temporarily or in advance restricting acquired rights if this is dictated by the difficult financial situation in the country. And we have that today and at this point. With regard to the negotiations on the coordination of pensions, which is also the case with this amendment, I must say that the negotiations have proceeded in the next direction. It was said that one part of the average wage growth resulting from the loss of employment of some 30,000 poorly paid workers would increase in full compliance with the growth of the average pension wage, in view of the actual increase in wage for comparison and valorisation compared to the growth of the average wage. And we said that if only half of the coordination was actually going to be something more, if that growth that was shown was not like that, but is, in some ways, fictitious. However, the problem arose in this intervention law, noting that the government representatives thought of the projected increase in wages, but that they had shown as an unjustified comparison. And today I find that it was irrelevant for me to urge my colleagues to agree to lower coordination, because that part of the increase in average wages was fictitious or apparent because of the loss of lower wages to the extent of those who lost their jobs. This means that he could have great difficulties in supporting this law because we negotiated something else that was later written down. I have pointed out this in the Group of Members, but because an agreement has been reached earlier that the coalition Members will not be making any amendments we have adhered to. Now we're going to support the whole thing, whether we don't support it, and it doesn't matter what one vote or not can do, but there are problems here. With regard to the support of the social partners for solutions in the intervention law, I must say that ZDURS, as the largest organisation connecting the pensioner, did not agree with the lower level of valorisation of wages. On the other hand, the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia does not represent half of all pensioners. Here is the problem of the consent of those and here I agree with the debaters who claim that pensions are not a social transfer, but are rights under the law. The same is true for patients who also fell in 2006 with the implementation of the 7th year freezing completely groundless because of their right to work or health insurance. Here are the problems that cause us problems in how to act when we have to vote. Surely, in every country that is considered socially difficult to accept is the freezing of the poor's income, but we are doing so now in this crisis, although solidarity in times of crisis should be even greater than in times of prosperity the understanding of those who live the most difficult. Here it is not pleasant to think that this intervention law will affect those with the lowest income and also those who receive and receive their benefits under these laws that do not fall within the field of social transfers. We believe that in the negotiations on the valorisation of pensions, of course, our party has given way too quickly. At that time, there were not enough options to cover the deficit that would have arisen, due to the loss of contributions and the large number of jobs lost in the pension register. It is true that we have a Capital Society, but the active financial reserves there could not cover this. We have proposed quite a few other possible solutions, but not according to our own, I am sure they have not been sufficiently elaborate and are not taken into account from this title, such as an increase in VAT by one percent. The poorest would be about the same if they received this half-valorisation, which would be lost at an increased VAT rate, and the necessary funds to cover social transfers would be contributed by all those who buy anything in that country at higher VAT, and in this way the burden of this cost would be divided into two million citizens, but not by about half a million citizens covered by all social transfers under this heading, which, of course, are not all of them. I have serious problems with my own support and this intervention law and of course the amendment, but as one Member has said, this will not depend on it, the amendment is attractive and I will consider whether I would support it or not. As far as the law is concerned, I think that responsible conduct will require adoption, support for this intervention law, but only by the force of the circumstances in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Likar has given up. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can only see one hand. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. We discussed the gambling law days ago, and there some coalition members discussed how to allocate additionally to the well-paid employees more money from tips, how to distribute those 10, 15 million euros collected in casinos. Today they are discussing how to take those who already do not have enough resources from the same social package, how to lower pensions, how to lower documents. And I think that says everything about the purpose of this law and the conduct.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you. Anyone else? Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	I have two proposals, the first of which I would like to point out, Mr President, that the Government has more than a quarter of an hour at its disposal. Given that this law is extremely important and, in essence, represents only the core of the entire budgetary issue, I think that one measure on your part would be appropriate, which I will hand over at the end, but then two words further, why. Indeed, it is only in this law that you can see fully why, with its media power, the current ruling group decided to launch the story into the public at the time of the adoption of the budget at the end of which the piece turns the chocolate. This, of course, hides something. What? That certain groups, such as 25 civil servants or judicial officials, do not have a problem even when it comes to raising their salaries, but it is being saved for young families and those most in need, that is to say that it is in fact a strong anti-social policy covered by this budget, so I firmly believe that it would be justified to order, in accordance with the rules of procedure which allow you, the suspension of the meeting at this point of the agenda and to call on the Prime Minister to continue and to explain why the government is in fact in breach of its own coalition contract, contrary to the stated objectives, to decide on a strong anti-social policy which is most visible in this law, of course, in the light of the entire budget. For the same reason, I also propose that you exceptionally decide to share time. The law that interferes with the rights of young families is certainly the most socially weak in such a way as to make more use of it. It is very interesting that some parliamentary groups have not taken advantage of a single minute of the time that has been available to discuss such an important and most sensitive layer of legislation as the one before us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr Grimes, several procedural proposals have been made. Regarding the Government's representation at this point, the Government announced Mr Helena Kamnar, State Secretary, which is entirely appropriate and other representatives are not needed. With regard to time-sharing, I must say that the Rules of Procedure do not allow this in such a case. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure allow for an extension of the debate, but you did not tell yourself how much you want to extend the debate. However, it is possible to extend the Rules of Procedure by a maximum of one hour. I would suggest that it be extended [[...]] [[Advertising in the hall]] I'll put it to the vote, Mr. Anderlich. [[...]] I suggest that it be extended by 15 minutes, for which I have the right under the rules of procedure. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Allow me, a procedural proposal has been made and we need to check the rules of procedure to see if it is such a form that I have to put it to the vote. [[...]] So allow me a moment. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Article 67, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states that the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the President, decide that the time for consideration of the points or for discussion shall be extended but not more than an hour. [[...]] This is true for the whole time for a debate that has not yet expired. It is only the time of the individual parliamentary group that has passed, so I cannot put this motion to the vote. And I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow, Wednesday, 25 November, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. AND 26. It's a day's work. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, a joint introductory presentation will be carried out within the framework of the 25th and 26th agenda items on the Proposal for a DECISION ON THE ANNUAL PLAN OF THE GOVERNMENT WITH THE NON-BORDER OF THE COUNTRY IN PARTICULAR VALUES OVER 300,000 EUROS FOR THE AUTHORITIES OF THE GOVERNMENT AND FOR THE LAWAL ORGANISATION FOR THE YEAR 2010 AND ON THE DRAFT DECISION ON THE ANNUAL SCHEDULE OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE PERSONAL VALUES OF 300,000 EUROS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND FOR THE LAWAL AUTHORITIES FOR THE YEAR 2011. So, for both years. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motions of the decrees. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Law on Real Estate of the State, Landscapes and Municipalities, the Annual Real Estate Plan shall be adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government at the same time as the State budget. In accordance with this legal provision, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to consider and adopt a decree for 2010 and 2011. The decree on an annual plan to dispose of the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per year for 2010 will apply from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010. This decree contains 52 real estates with a total indicative value of more than €43 million, three with an indicative value of €12 million, 5 with a value of more than €2 million, 38 with a total estimated value of more than €24 million and 3 with a value of over €2 million and three with an estimated value of over €2 million with an economic public infrastructure. The managers of the largest part of the property included in this decree are: Ministry of Defence for 16 plots and three economic infrastructures, Ministry of Interior for 4 plots and 3 business premises, Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana for 8 plots and University Clinical Centre Ljubljana for 5 plots. Other operators proposed only one to three properties for inclusion in the 2010 decree. With regard to the same 2011 decree, I stress that this will apply from January 2010 to December 2010, this decree contains 28 real estates whose total indicative value is more than €15 million, one facility worth more than €1 million, three premises worth more than €4 million and 24 lands with a total estimated value of more than €10 million. The managers of most properties, which are included in the 2011 decree, are: Ministry of Defence for 23 lands, Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia. These two proposed a total of five properties for inclusion in the decree. On the basis of a decision of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of 29.10.2009, the Ministry of Public Administration also sent to the Council on 16.11.2009 additional information on the reasons for the inclusion of individual properties in those two decrees for 2010 and for 2011. This supplementary report also lists the methods of availability that operators intend to use in relation to individual real estates. In fact, the two decrees will constitute the basis for having access to the above-mentioned immovable property, thereby generating the necessary funds for individual operators which have incorporated and listed the property in the decrees of this property. This is the case where the authorities that are the real estate managers may then use these assets obtained by replacing the real estate, by disposing of the property at a public auction or also by disposing of this property free of charge when it comes to the public benefit, for example, of the local community, and having them at their disposal. Without the inclusion of the property in this decree, and if these two decrees were not adopted in the National Assembly, individual managers of such facilities would not be able to implement them. The means of use may be used only for the continuation of real estate traffic or for the construction of the necessary premises for the purposes of the operators of these properties. In view of the above-mentioned honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly, I propose that, together with the 2010 and 2011 budgets, they also endorse the texts of both decrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the State which submitted a written report to the Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Dear Prime Minister! The Government submitted a proposal for a decree on the Annual Plan for the Real Estate of the State, worth more than EUR 300,000 per year, for the administration of the State and for the judicial authorities for 2010 and 2011. The draft decrees show that each budget monitors a list of property worth more than 300,000 euros held by public authorities when it comes to the sale of exchange, transfer and the like. In any case where the sale is concerned or similar, the value of the property must be assessed and the valuation carried out by the sworn value-holders. Of course, prices also sometimes stop at the 300,000 euro border point, and then the credibility of the legislation raises the question. From this point of view, it is imperative that the gap in Article 11 of the Law be removed and supplemented so that there is no longer a dilemma when the indicative value of EUR 300,000. Point 5 of Article 3 of the Act clearly states how having assets in all respects is not necessary to make any major amendments to the law. Members are also given the opportunity to view and supervise the functioning of the executive branch of power as an individual operator has real estate worth 300,000 euros and more. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a decree, as it excludes the ambiguities that the current law has allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Slovenian Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the decree on the country's annual real estate management plan. Of course, support for the decision itself does not mean much unless additional efforts are made to sell this unnecessary real property, despite the changing situation in the real estate market, which is not the most favourable, because it is true that in this economic and social situation, this excess property represents only an additional burden and cost to us. Therefore, in accordance with the principle of economy or good management, most of those properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia are included in this proposal for a decree, which is not necessarily required by all those persons in management at this time to carry out their duties, whether they are individual national authorities, individual ministries or public institutions. It is also true that these are not all properties which comply with this criterion of non-necessity, since one condition is that the property which the operator does not permanently need to be placed on this list at least 30 days prior to being placed on the internal market of the property of the State. And such properties are likely to be found in 2010 and 2011. We can expect that the government will perhaps come with additions in the second year. We have before us a list of real property worth more than EUR 300,000, when we can achieve our optimum property management only by reselling on the market or in individual cases in accordance with the real estate law of the country, the provinces, the municipalities, we can also transfer this property right free of charge. In the Group of the Social Democrats we will support this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The government has proposed, together with the budget, a proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan worth more than EUR 300,000 per capita for state administration authorities and judicial authorities for 2010 and 2011. The second paragraph of Article 11 of the Law refers to the adoption of such a decree by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, at the same time as the State budget. And when we discussed this in the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we also agreed in our Group on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which warned that the proposed decree contained several properties, whose value does not exceed EUR 300,000, which is equal to that of the law and would have to be removed from the programme or changed in their orientation. It was said at the meeting that this has been done in the past, but since you say that this government is much more capable and better than the previous one, it would probably be able to do so and arrange it so that the rules are not violated. We asked the Minister about a number of concrete properties that were included in the annual plan on the reasons and the envisaged method of making these data available, and it was also agreed that, pending the consideration of the proposals for decrees at the meeting of the National Assembly, he would prepare additional information on the reasons for the inclusion of individual properties in the annual plan. We have indeed received this supplement, yet much more is known, something more is already known, but essentially not anymore. And since the mayor of one of the major municipalities explains what he will get from the state, housing and other properties, the government denies it, he says that this is not true, so we wanted more accurate information about what will happen to these properties, so that we would not then re-establish any investigative commissions or anything like that. The information we have received is either too general or does not provide a comprehensive picture, so our vote for the proposals on the country's annual real estate management plan for 2010 and 2011 will not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-24-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body to the draft resolutions. The decision on the motions for resolutions will be made tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting, which is Wednesday, 25 November 2009, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate agenda items 25 and 26. I am also adjourning the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. In doing so, I inform you that in 10 minutes, this will be 12.45 meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy, as announced, in the large lounge of Šubičev 4. Thank you.
