ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Roberto Battelli, the other absences have not been excused. I say hello to everyone! We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the government, Mrs. Kamnareva, want the opening statement? Please, Secretary of State, Mrs. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Excise Act before you is, in fact, a component of the budget package or the rebalancing, because by changing the excise duty on cigarettes we provide additional budgetary resources and thus achieve the result presented in the rebalancing. The bill is without prejudice to the principles and substantive solutions of the applicable excise legislation, but only proposes to increase excise duty on cigarettes and other tobacco products, namely to increase excise duty on cigarettes from the current 64 to 69 euros per 1,000 cigarettes and to increase excise duty from the current 32 to 35 euros per kilogram, while for the remaining 20 to 22 euros per kilogram tobacco. Let me say that the last change in excise duties was adopted in 2007, i.e. excise duty relating to cigarettes, while for other excise duties on tobacco products in 2004. Compared to the European Union, our excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products are at the lower limit set by European regulations. The law we are proposing should enter into force on 1 May. The result of these changes will be approximately 14 million additional appropriations in the budget by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 4th session, 23. 3. 2009, as a parent working body, the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, with a proposal for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at a meeting of 16. 3. Decide on the proposal for the consideration of the draft law by emergency procedure and adopt it. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Laundry Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The service in the text of the marriage proposal has no comments. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its introduction to the explanation of the articles, the representative of the bill's proposer stressed that the proposed law changes the state's attitude towards excise duties in the field of tobacco and tobacco products. The last legislative amendment in this area has achieved the minimum level laid down by the European Directive. The government has decided to propose an increase in excise duties on tobacco products due to the problems of the revenue side of the state budget, thus increasing the total excise duty on cigarettes from the current 64 euros to 69 euros per thousand pieces of cigarettes. It is also appropriate to increase excise duty on all other tobacco products. The amendment of the law is due to enter into force on 1 May and will generate an additional €14 million from this title in the state budget this year, which is already included in the proposed budget rebalancing. That is why the Government is also proposing this law as a follow-up to the implementation of the budget balance. In the debate, the members of the Committee first paid attention to the provision of Article 4 governing excise duties. In this context, it was stressed that the regime in force in the field of excise duty on tobacco products promotes, in particular, the consumption of cigarettes of the lower price class and thus lower quality, which, of course, has the worst impact on the health of cigarette consumers. The situation in some other Member States of the European Union is different in this area, as different excise arrangements reduce the consumption of more harmful cigarettes. The prices of tobacco products in Slovenia are expected to become comparable to other countries in a different way of raising excise duties, and cigarette consumption would also be more evenly redistributed to a higher class of cigarettes. In doing so, the representative of the bill-maker drew attention to the reasons why the Government considered the proposed solution, the estimated amount of excise duty, to be appropriate. She pointed out that the Ministry of Finance, at the stage of preparing the proposed legal solutions, had an interview with the initiators for a different relationship between specific and proportional excise duty and, on this basis, carried out an analysis of the market for cigarettes and an assessment of the effects they would have achieved if they had followed such an initiative. This analysis shows that the current share of cigarettes in the cigarette market from lower price classes is 15%, about 40% of cigarettes are in the highest-selling class of cigarettes and about 34% of cigarettes in the higher-priced class. In assessing the financial effects of the initiative, it was found that, due to the present structure of the cigarette market, these effects would be significantly lower. In view of the highlighted fiscal impact of the proposed solutions for the state budget, the debate also highlighted the importance of other aspects, particularly health. They may also have a negative impact on the expenditure side of the budget over the longer term. An initiative has been made to make the excise duty equal for all classes of cigarettes priced, and part of the higher revenue appropriations has been diverted to the health treasury. It was also suggested that consideration should be given to the imposition and imposition of excise duties on other substances, otherwise prohibited, to the health of less harmful substances such as tobacco and alcohol. Taking into account the debate, the Committee adopted the following conclusion: "The Committee recommends to the Government, when preparing an implementing regulation concerning the amendment of the excise duty law in the event of changes in the market situation, that the ratio between the proportional and specific excise duty on cigarettes be taken into account to maximise the tax burden on cigarettes and support the final use.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good day to the 29 honourable Members at the beginning of today's meeting, including you, Mr Vice-President. In the Slovenian National Party, we are comparing the draft law or I must say that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Excise is actually a great drama, it can be a play of joy, in three actions. The first act was done in the previous government, so that whoever was in the government was not important, was done with tobacco law, when the country suddenly showed great concern for the health of Slovenes and Slovenes. Okay, because not least no thing that proven, of course, does, can harm. The second act is a secret, about it a little later. The third conclusion of this Slovenian drama is, according to the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Excise or Homely - first of all we care about the health of Slovenes and Slovenes, we are afraid of what will happen, tobacco destroys, kills and so on, what is written on cigarettes and tobacco products, of course, and we go to law. On the nose, we don't care about the Constitution, we don't care about the rights of individuals about their own behavior, we go. Well, the second act is more interesting. Slovenians have a great saying, 'The forbidden fruit is the sweetest', and, of course, with tobacco law is unfortunately, unfortunately, not what statistics claim, unfortunately a large number of young people have appeared - students, students, even primary schoolchildren; I am living next to primary school; they have started smoking. I mean, if I was young again, and I had that in my head, I wouldn't, but I'd smoke. And the number of smokers and smokers has increased enormously. It's extraordinary, even though they say it's not true. That's right! And this second act, of course, is the basis for the third, final act - fine, and from now on, "we care" health. We don't care about health anymore. "Write me in the uh'" health. Now we have a lot of smokers and money. And now the excise will fill the state cash register. From here on out, health doesn't matter. What health for smokers?Oh, my God! He's tied up with the money to go to the state cash register. That's the truth! But, especially, this truth disturbs me in Article 4 of this Law, while we still separate people from tobacco. The holding tobacco product will; we assume that it has more quality tobacco leaves, substances; it can be much more expensive than that, sometimes we said Drava, Drina, Macedonian tobacco. And now, of course, prices will be higher due to excise duties. I don't want to say poor people - people who have less will just buy those cigarettes that will be cheaper, those who have more, but they will buy cigarettes that will be more expensive. And here, in part, Mrs. Kamnareva is right. True, we are in the lowest class in Europe, but if we were really healthy, I stress for human health, Slovenia and Slovenians, to all of us, we would already be making a single and high-cost tobacco law, where the price of a cigarette box or tobacco product would be, I mean, EUR 5 and there would be a concern for health, to stop smoking, and they would all be the same. It seems a little rude and ugly to us, but it is not fault that it will not be misunderstood, it is not the fault of the Government here at this time, that, even from before, it is rude that under the pretext of caring for the health of Slovenes and Slovenes we create another act, increase the number of smokers and smokers. Now we have a lot of traffic, and now, of course, we're going to raise excise duties and fill the state cash register. And one more thing. As far as tobacco producers are concerned, those who produce "smuggers" or drug smugglers and tobacco producers have never been poor and will never be. In the Slovenian National Party, we will decide on this law in our own conscience. I would point out, however, that it is not fair that money is worth more than human health today. I'll vote against it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you again very much, Mr Vice President. The purpose of the law is to increase excise duty on tobacco products. The Government's intention, also reflected in the proposal for a rebalancing, is to raise excise duties on the budget's income balance. The law ahead of us brings EUR 24 million and 7% of the expected increase in excise revenue to the projected increase. However, the explanation of the bill also mentions that the positive effect of the law will be to reduce the negative effects of the use of tobacco products. All well and good, but given the specific purpose of such excise duty, we wonder what they should be pursuing as the first objective. In our view, it would be difficult to put the financial aspect of such an increase in excise duty in the first place. Therefore, we are simply surprised and shocked by the following statement by government representatives: "Because our primary objective was to acquire more resources and, given the structure of the market presented, we have assessed that the solution you have on the table is a suitable solution." Respectful, is the purpose of excise duty on tobacco products to limit consumption and to protect health, or is the sole purpose of this excise duty to fill the financial hole of the State budget? I think that such thinking by the Ministry of Finance is quite worrying, even at the warnings of some discussers, that the system of excise duty on tobacco products is obsolete and harmful to health. As we say, we will support the bill, while at the same time proposing to the Government that it examine and prepare a revised system of excise duty on tobacco products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. All together a nice greeting, especially to the Madam Secretary and her co-workers! Sometimes you have to say bob beans. We have a budgetary debate or debate on amending the budget. Yesterday, we all talked a lot about spending, and on the other hand, there is a need to provide the budget, as well as money and revenue, because only when you guarantee it can you share it. At this point, the purpose of excise duty is simple and simple - to provide additional resources. When raising excise duties, we are talking about the fiscal aspect and we attach this to the Liberal Democracy Club, but on the other hand we are happy to discuss how to increase the health of Slovenes and Slovenes. I am glad that we are still a free country and that each one of us can decide freely when it comes to tobacco or alcohol, and it is his will if he refuses to do so, if that is his decision. However, I am pleased that an important debate on the committee has also been triggered on this subject, triggered by a sentence, whether Slovenia wants to be an oasis where smoking will be the worst possible cigarettes that have the worst possible impact on health. The Government's representative, Mrs Helena, has made it clear that this is not something that, at the same time when we need funds, we are also considering another aspect of how to get a change in the relationship between specific and proportional spending, that the health aspect will also be significantly more at the forefront. It must be said, however, that smoking certainly harms health, that of the ten cases of lung cancer, nine of those who have and have difficulty smoking, are significantly more burdened by the health system that we are closing and supporting, including this budget. I am pleased that the Government is thinking about excise duties intensively; those who watched yesterday's video clip and government information are also reducing excise duties on diesel fuel used in the economy, not for a small amount, but for an important number, for 50 euros per thousand litres of spent fuel, which I think is fine. It also seems to me that excise duties are a broader story, which, of course, guides and shapes the policy of this government. Since I come from the countryside, from the farmers, I tell you that it is where they own their own forests, but they warm up on the burning oil and at the same time they pay the excise fee for it, it is time for all those to consider finally cleaning up the Slovenian forests in which there is more burning or waste wood from year to year. That is why, of course, I recommend to the Government that, in the first steps, we provide the necessary resources for the budget and, of course, in the next steps, the impact on the lives of our people. The financial crisis and the rebalancing are always an opportunity to consider such measures, but what does this mean in the field? If those who have their own trees are paying the excise on the fuel oil, I don't think there's anything wrong with it. For those in cities who do not have these options, however, we have a whole range of measures in the field of social transfers to mitigate this. In the parliamentary club to conclude, the LDS, of course, we support the proposed law, but with the expectation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also take into account the Committee's decision or recommendation to the Government that, when preparing the regulation and implementing the excise Regulation, it take into account such a relationship between proportional and specific excise duties on tobacco products in order to ensure that the tax burdens are evenly distributed, irrespective of the type of tobacco products, and that the Government has a room for manoeuvre to accept certain changes and to change the final burden of the various products in order to increase the burden of more harmful and not less harmful tobacco products, which was also one of the purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u12	Nice greetings, vice president, nice greetings from the secretary of state and her co-workers. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the changes and additions to the Excise Law proposed by the Government to the National Assembly. We understand that, with the change in excise duties, the Government will provide an additional source of revenue in these budgetary debates and difficult times, estimated at around EUR 24 million per annum. This is probably the main reason why excise duty on tobacco products is changing and, consequently, the price of tobacco products in retail is rising in the debate on the 2009 budget or the 2009 budget rebalancing. Of course, different comments and experiences as to whether existing laws restricting the use of tobacco products have had positive or negative effects. I know some positive ones, but they are also negative, but it is certain that the rise in the prices of tobacco products may also affect the changing habits of smokers to quit smoking and thus limit or switch to cheaper and thus lower the quality of tobacco products. The current system of excise duty and the relationship between specific and proportional excise duty is more striking to medium- and higher-priced cigarettes, not only in absolute terms, but also in percentages, as well as lower-priced cigarettes, which are also generally cigarettes with higher nicotine and tar content and thus more harmful to consumer health. There has already been some talk about this today, and there has been a debate on this in the committee. With such price increases, consumers could begin to interfere with lower-priced tobacco products and thus with the health of even more harmful tobacco products. We propose to the Government that, as long as the sales ratio in the lower middle and higher price classes starts to change, it should consider how to adjust the amount accordingly for the specific rate and the proportional rate of excise duty. To avoid encouraging the smoking of cheaper tobacco products through price and excise policies and thus indirectly increase the negative effects of tobacco products on our health. Of course, it would also make sense to consider whether article 51 of the Law on excise duties and the determination of the amount and system of excise duty should also be amended to transfer to the Government and not to the National Assembly, since I think that this is the only excise duty actually discussed by the National Assembly. All other excise duties are under the authority of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Secretary of State and representatives of the Ministry. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, which is part of the Government's measures to address the crisis and, as such, the component of the rebalancing. With the amendment of the law, the Government increases excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products, thus we have no problems in the SDS Group. We regret, however, that the Government has not taken advantage of the possibilities and has placed a greater burden on the health of harmful products in other groups as well. It is also a great shame that funds from this title will be lost in the budget and will not be used in health care to increase preventive and other health programmes. The excise duty was intended in the initial law for programmes for reducing and treating lung cancer in Slovenia. It is very interesting that, despite the fact that this measure, which is supposed to bring an additional resource for health, in the area of the Ministry of Health, is reducing the budget by €7 million, while the cultural ministry is increasing by €30 million. It is also interesting that this relatively small change, which will have an annual financial impact of around €14 million, is decided in the National Assembly. However, the Government has decided to increase excise duties on oil derivatives itself, despite the fact that this is an annual increase of about €230 million. The increase in excise duties on oil derivatives has led to higher prices than our neighbours, which directly reduces the competitiveness of our users, especially carriers. In view of the experience with the 2009 Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which we are also dealing with today, and because the Government is placing a higher subscription to Radiotelevision instead of coming to the National Assembly with a change of law, we are actually surprised that the Government in the style of austerity measures did not take this rational option and simply increase the cost of tobacco and tobacco products just in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in principle, we do not oppose amending the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u16	A nice greeting to all present, and thank you for your word. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Law increases excise duty on tobacco products from €64 to €69 per thousand cigarettes, the most sold type of cigarettes and in parallel for fine-cut tobacco from €32 to €35, and for the remaining tobacco from €20 to €22 per kilogram of tobacco. The proposal to amend excise duty on tobacco products is motivated solely by the need to provide sufficient budgetary resources and is also possible because the current level of excise duty in the Republic of Slovenia is set at the lower limit for tobacco products by the European Directive. With the proposed increase in tobacco excise duties, €14 million is expected to increase the inflow to the state budget from 1 May forward or at an annual level of slightly more than €20 million in budgetary revenue. In our view, this change missed the opportunity to try to influence the consumption of tobacco products, in particular the increase in the consumption of higher-quality cigarettes and thus the reduction of the negative effects of smoking, in addition to the aim of increasing budget revenues with a possible change in the excise model. Currently, consumption in the lowest quality class is 15%, in the class of the most sold cigarettes is 40%, and in the highest quality class is 34%. A change in excise duty or a change in the ratio between proportional and specific excise duty should encourage the consumption of higher quality cigarettes and thereby reduce the negative effects of smoking on health. According to the static method, the estimated budgetary revenue at the beginning would be indeed lower, but the change in the relationship between the two types of excise duty would in time make this equivalent. However, the net position in public finances would certainly be improved with regard to excise revenue on tobacco products and treatment costs resulting from smoking. In view of the public financial situation, we will support the proposed amendment of the excise law in our parliamentary group, despite the comments mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Let me begin by saying that the Government proposal is also favoured by the DeSUS Group. In doing so, she tried to read something other than what is written directly in the law or at least to understand its connotations. It is worth noting, in view of the views of the members of the groups, that the applicant is indeed the Government, but that it has prepared this material by the Ministry of Finance, which was not primarily concerned with health reasons, but with financial, fiscal reasons. Therefore, the objective is also clear. And when we want to achieve different goals that can also be achieved through tax policy, it is likely that material makers will come from other ministries. It has been made clear that this is one of the measures we call them and that these are budgetary reasons. What may be worth mentioning in this is the fact that this measure, which is a full budget, will be taken immediately, in contrast to most of the measures targeted at the economy. When we take measures for the economy, from proposals and from the adoption of any law or measure to implementation, to the effects of a very long time interval when it comes to how to fill the budget, these intervals are significantly shorter. We will still be discussing these issues in other points today. Therefore, the process is also necessary and therefore the consequences are more or less planned - namely, smoking of cheaper and healthier cigarettes. How the system of determining and modifying, collecting and controlling excise duties works probably does not make sense at this moment to repeat, but it is important to say what the proposal really determines and what the interests of the latter are. First of all, as the system has been said to remain the same, it is only a change in the level of excise duties and, consequently, changes that will also be seen in the budget balance. It is a matter of changing the implementation deadlines, and even here it is shorter, we must be swift when we fill the state budget. This is about the need for inventory and valorisation. And it is the fact that the Government, which is important, gives the authority to vary the ratios between the individual parameters that determine excise duty during the course of the year. Why is he actually going? It's a matter of different interests. One interest is the interest of the fiscus, this interest can be either short-term or long-term. In order to be optimal for the budget, however, this mandate was needed for the government to change this relationship during the year and in any way achieve the optimum effect for the budget. Another interest is the interest of public health and the health of individuals, which today has been a bit of a talk, but we know that, unfortunately, on the occasion of accepting this novel, it is a background. Then the interests of profit or producers or importers that are part-time again are those that offer low-priced, other medium-value, third ones from the highest price class and are directly affecting the market, consumption and therefore it is clear that this intervention is also an intervention in the economic sphere. But there are paradoxes. First of all, the trends are that we have fewer smokers and more smokers, so we sell at the expense of those close to our borders. Another time. Finding that lower prices are harmful when it comes to fiscal and when it comes to health. And thirdly, in recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in the standard, the consumption of low-cost cigarettes has been declining, which is said to be about changing our habits, not because of this novelty, but because of the trend. Well, with this novel, we probably won't do it. I'm sure you don't. But maybe we could speed something up. However, the last thing to say is that the Committee has instructed the Government to take into account the need to take care of human health during the year when changing the excise system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, within the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - On the basis of the proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the summer plan of the State’s non-replaceable assets in the individual value of over 300 000 euro for State administrations and for judicial authorities for 2009. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the additional postponement of the motion for a decree. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members, I wish you a good day! The current Decree on the Annual Real Estate Management Plan was drawn up in 2007, at individual value, i.e. more than EUR 300,000 for public administrations and judicial authorities for 2009, and, as such, already contains property worth EUR 12 million 972 thousand 57. Article 11, paragraph 5, of the Regulation provides that the annual real estate management plan shall be amended or completed once a year, as a rule in the first half of the current year. In accordance with this provision, it contains a proposal for a decree which is before you and by which the decree itself changes for 2009 to supplement it by adding 82 new properties to the total value of EUR 79 million 673 thousand 635. The draft decree includes land and buildings, the latter being divided into business premises, dwellings and other buildings. An individual real estate shall be assigned its indicative value, which shall be determined by the individual operator or real estate owner on the basis of valuation or on the basis of comparable data. The proposal therefore contains an additional 72 properties, whose total indicative value is over EUR 66 million, of which there are 54 plots, 15 business premises, 2 apartments and other facilities. In accordance with the principle of economy, the draft decree includes those properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia which are not permanently required by any of the operators of the State's real estate to carry out their duties. With regard to these properties, individual operators have concluded that their economic use cannot be ensured either by broadcasting or by other means of exploitation and that the optimal effects, the State-owned real property management strategies can be achieved solely by selling them on the market or by free transfer of ownership rights in accordance with the law or regulation. For the sake of this well-respected assembly, I propose that the decree be confirmed. At the same time, on this occasion, I would like to inform you that, in the government procedure, a strategy on the management of immovable property owned by a country, which will define the way of action below, is important in terms of transparency and rationality of the ownership of property by the State and will be followed by all users in operation, and we hope that we will continue to manage real property owned by the State to the point where it will be possible to assess that the State is genuinely rational in dealing with the assets entrusted to it. With regard to these real estates, it can be said that they are as I mentioned them and that operators can give them to others in three ways with a view to better management, because this is the moment they are causing, according to the operators' assessment, only and only the costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I give the floor to the president, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, to present the Committee's position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice shall meet at its 18th session. 3. 2009 addressed the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the decree in the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for the public administration and for the justice authorities of 2009 submitted by the Government. Members and members of the Committee had such a proposal for a decree at their disposal, and they also had the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 10. 3. By the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 11 November 2009, 3. 2009 and also with the reply of the Ministry of Public Administration to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, gave an additional explanation to the Article of the draft decree. The current decree on the country's annual real estate plan of more than EUR 300,000 per year for public administrations and judicial authorities, as she said, already contains 10 properties worth a total of EUR 12 million 972 000 and several euros. The proposed decree will amend or supplement the existing decree by adding 82 new properties to the total value of EUR 79 million 673 thousand 635. The proposed decree constitutes the proposed additions in the Regulation during the first half of the current year. With regard to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, to which the Ministry of Public Administration has also prepared a written reply, the Minister said that they were accepting a comment and that they would prepare an appropriate legal amendment that would solve the dilemma of the assets, namely EUR 300,000. It is not clear, as was the case with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which part should include the same property, which is worth exactly EUR 300,000, either in the first or the second part. In a written reply, the Minister of Public Administration explained this and ensured that they would prepare appropriate amendments to the law, which would resolve this dilemma. The proposal for a decree also received a positive opinion from the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation. The members of the Committee did not discuss the motion for a decree or there was no debate. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a decree and the Committee adopted all the articles of the Proposal for a Decree and proposed that the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Regulation on the annual plan for the disposal of immovable property of a country of more than 300 000 euros per capita for the administration of the State and for the judicial authorities for 2009 should be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The positions will be presented by the parliamentary groups. First on behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Under the Real Property Act of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities, and the Real Estate Regulation of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities, we have before us amendments and additions to the Regulation on the Annual Property Management Plan for the Real Estate of the State. The first amendment in Article 1 is interesting. The indicative value of availability is changing from poor 13 million euros to poor 80 million. It is therefore almost a 7-fold increase in the resale of state real estate. It is true that we have a large budget deficit and we need financial resources, but at the same time we are also asking ourselves about the purpose of this kind of work at a given time. If we turn back time for just a few hours, we can remember the gruesome debates about reselling, even the sale of state property, state silver, gold reserves and the like. At least two things stand as if they were nailed. More inappropriate situations than the current situation, we cannot imagine selling real estate. On the other hand, we are surprised at some of the envisaged sales of property in the centre of Ljubljana, in the fact that, on the other hand, some money is being spent on rent. Hasn't the Government, in its 30th austerity measures, ordered the Ministry of Public Administration to examine the policy of renting premises for the needs of state authorities and instructed it to propose measures to reduce rent costs. We don't understand anything in the Slovenian People's Party here. In view of the fact that, at a given time when real estate prices reach a long-term bottom, it seems completely irrational to increase the disposal of state immovable property and because of some, in our view of irrational solutions, we will not support this motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, the position will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the SDS Group, the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the 2009 Decree on the annual plan for the holding of immovable property of a country of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for public administrations and for judicial authorities will not be opposed and we support the position that, by law, the decision on the state's assets of more than EUR 300,000 is to be determined.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u28	Good-bye, Your Honor. The position of the Zares Group - A new policy on the proposed decision on amendments and additions to the 2009 Decree on the Annual Real Estate Management Plan of the State in a single order of more than EUR 300,000 for State administrations and judicial authorities is the following, in view of the assessment of the Government and the explanation, it is clear that the proposed properties are not beneficial to the State in the long term, not in terms of spatial capacity, but not in terms of some additional financial inflows that might be obtained through the issuance of these real estates. Unlike the Slovenian People's Party, we do not believe that it is a matter of selling state silver or selling state honey if I can be more plastic. As far as these spatial capacity concerns are concerned, and those that are being sold, we believe that those who are being sold are not suitable for public authorities that obviously have different needs. It is logical to sell off these empty and purposeless properties because they are a burden. As a result, they are emptying the budget only for maintenance purposes. The purpose of this Decision is to increase the efficiency and speed up the procedures for the management of the State’s real estate and, in particular, the possibility of adapting effectively to the market situation, which is, as a consequence, to any inflow into the state treasury. As we support all austerity measures, we will also support this in terms of the cost of managing such real estate. It just seems to us that it's cost-effective, and from this point of view, it's part of this set. To the extent that the state can truly recover these almost €80 million from this title, it is, of course, a good ransom at the time of the recession, which will still be needed for all the outflows of the budget, although it is optimistic that the country will find a buyer for all these real estates. In the event that this will not be the case, some local communities may also have ideas on how to deal with this property better, more cost-effective or more useful; in this case, of course, we believe that the Government will also find a common language here with interested local communities. In the Zares Group of Members - The new policy will be supported by this proposed decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the Annual Real Estate Management Plan Decision will, of course, be supported in the Slovenian National Party, but it gives us the opportunity to think in that segment when the proposed regulation speaks of multiple movements, whose value does not exceed EUR 300,000, but is equal to that. To propose the removal from the programme or change their orientation value; the previous decree contained an indicative value of EUR 300,000. In Article 11 of the Real Property Act, the law stipulates that the National Assembly shall decide on the availability of real estate at individual value of more than EUR 300,000. Under EUR 300,000, however, the Government decides. However, the law in this part is not precise and is flawed, so the law in this part should be supplemented. There are more and more cases of state-owned property being sold at a price, which is not admissible and gives us the idea whether we have such incompetent valueholders or whether we are making cow trades. Therefore, it would be good if the property owned by the State and sold, which is of lower value, were dealt with at least by the Internal Policy Committee. Of course, this is not possible under the current law, but it would require that the law be supplemented. This would provide one of the security guards for questionable and speculative sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendment was adopted by the mother labour body on the motion for a decree, so I am concluding the hearing. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.45. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Would you like a word from the government? Mrs. Kamnar? State Secretary Mag. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Budget Implementation Act is a component of the budget's rebalancing and we propose a number of amendments that would, in particular, allow for a more prudent and faster absorption of European funds and some changes related to a different scope of debt and guarantees. However, the law also regulates two other topics, which are not entirely subject to the Budget Implementation Act, but given that these are temporary solutions, which relate only to the operation of this year, we believe that the Budget Implementation Act is a suitable solution to determine the issue of salaries and RTV contributions. In addition, I would like to draw attention to some of the amendments adopted on the home committee for which we are assessing in the Government that they could cause serious problems in the continuation of the budget, namely those amendments which reduce the payment deadlines from the proposed 30 to 60 days to 14 days. We believe that such an amendment is not absolutely acceptable and would cause violations of this provision at many points because it is simply not possible in some cases to provide the necessary control required to make payment within such a short time limit. The second is the provision relating to the payment of value added tax. The provision, as it is written, is contrary to the European Directive and, at the same time, on the substantive side, constitutes, in fact, an intervention in that part of the municipal obligations relating to the municipality as a supplier and not to the municipality as a VAT payer, which is why we propose that the dictatorships be rectified here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi Committee. Mr. Joyful Zerjav to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at an urgent session of 23. 3. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. That service notes, in the context of its general comments, that the basic substantive framework for the regulation of ZIP has been exceeded by the proposed additions to the cities. This is a matter of regulating the content subject to other rules, namely for actions which significantly reduce the transparency of the legal regime in force, while in that case there are no grounds for establishing the amended amount of the RTV contribution. At the same time, the PSC notes that the text at legal level deals with matters which are intended to be regulated or agreed upon by a collective agreement. In the introductory supplement, the explanation of the articles was given by the representative of the Finance Ministry in a brief presentation of the purpose of the law and the submission of the solutions. The reasons for the proposal give rise to an adaptation of the basic text to the changes envisaged in the simultaneous balance. At the same time, it takes into account the legal nature of the State budget, the implementation of the text in question is a direct condition for the implementation of the budget balance. This novel does not impose new public financial obligations, while the funds for implementation are provided by the State budget or its balance sheet. The fundamental principles and main solutions are defined in the law governing public finances. The main objective of the text is the current and smooth implementation of the adopted balance. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative raised individual comments on the content of the regulation of the Law on the implementation of the budget, which is clearly defined by law, by specifying the subject matter of the regulation of the time-limit and the entities to which the text relates. It was stated that each of the proposed amendments, paragraphs 21 and 22, exceeded the set framework. In an additional explanation of the essential solutions to the legislative text, the representative of the Government further stressed that one of the key sets of amendments concerns support for the area of European funds, which can be implemented over the next two years, this is ongoing and in the course of the next year, while the obligations themselves are already legalising the basic text. With regard to the particulars, the Committee members raised individual questions in the debate and expressed certain views and opinions, in particular as regards the formal aspect and approach of the implementation of individual solutions. However, according to the debaters, the Government and the coalition cannot ignore that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups with regard to the specific provisions propose appropriate solutions both on editorial and corrective substantive salaries. In the context of the discussion of individual articles, the discussion focused on the amendments proposals, the creation of new amendments and the dictatorial definition of individual solutions. The Committee shall proceed on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, by motions from the member of the Committee of William Trophynik to Article 10, or William Rezman and Mag. Andrej Visiak created and accepted two amendments. Among the amendments of qualified candidates, the Committee adopted amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups by 1, 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 21 of the SDS Group's amendments to Article 14, of the SLS Group's amendment. The other amendments were not accepted by the Committee. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes those amendments, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much for the report of your mother's working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the LDS Group will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, a good-bye to everyone. The basic objective of the proposed novel, so-called ZIP, is to legalise a solution that will enable the ongoing and smooth implementation of the adopted 2009 budget rebalancing. And since we support the adoption of the budget correction in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also support the amendment of this law. Otherwise, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2008 and 2009 was adopted in the National Assembly with both budgets quite a while ago, that is the end of 2007. And since it was an election year, the amendment of this law had not yet been made. The government has set out a proposal for a budget rebalancing for this year and, consequently, this law also needs to be adapted to the changes in the budget, in particular to the content envisaged by the rebalancing. Otherwise, there is a discrepancy between such documents. In view of the legal nature of the State budget, the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 is a direct condition for the implementation of the Balance. The law on the implementation of the budget sets out their composition, the specificities of their implementation, the extent of their indebtedness, the State guarantee and the public sector at national level, and particularly the extent of the resources withdrawn to municipalities, the level of the average according to the law governing the financing of municipalities and the taking of commitments. In addition, it deals with other issues that are important for the implementation of the budget. It is important for us to draw attention to the key changes brought by the ZIP novel when European funds are drawn. The aim is to make European funds more efficient, faster and efficient, so we welcome the fact that the novel can be more efficient, faster and better for the operators or those preparing the tenders in the next two years. This does not mean, of course, that it is already taking up its obligations because it is regulated in other provisions of the law and is regulated in a manner otherwise enshrined in the applicable Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. It is also important to tell us that the payment deadlines for investments and investment transfers are being reduced, in such a way that those investments and investment transfers relating to payments after situations are between 30 and no more than 60 days, the current marriage solution has been 60 days and in practice a lot further. It is also important to note that this reduction of payment deadlines is also important for businesses, entrepreneurs, the economy, as the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget now proposes, inter alia, a shorter deadline for payments for investments of between 30 and 60 days instead of the existing 60 days. Companies demand from the country all the time, so it is also necessary and right to shorten their payment deadlines and, of course, in the case of operators with whom they conclude investment contracts, to ensure that they also pay their subcontractors within the contract deadlines, which is of course also extremely important at the moment that we are dealing with tight conditions. The powers of the Minister for Finance, who can set a shorter payment period, where necessary, to ensure an efficient and efficient management of budgetary resources, are also being re-established. By preventing economic damage that would have occurred if the payment had not been made in the short term. It may also extend payment deadlines, where necessary, in order to ensure the liquidity of the budget. It is also important to introduce advance payments for projects financed from European funds in two regimes. The first concerns public institutions and non-profit organisations. There's a 20% prepayment. It is also important that this is done when it comes to private entities. As the time is running out, of course, let me remind you once again that we will support the important amendment of the law in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The views of the SD Group will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u38	Nicely greeted! Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Position of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats concerning the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 20008 and 2009. One key set of changes relates to the way European funds are drawn up or to the whole system that will support the regulation of the area of European funds. Within this framework, it is possible to make calls faster or to be managed by operators, or those who make tenders for two years, that is to say for the current and the following year. However, this does not mean that he is already taking up the obligation because he is regulated in other provisions of the law and is regulated in the manner otherwise laid down in the applicable Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. The law also introduces advance payments for projects financed from European funds. Prepayments are introduced in two regimes, as the predecessor has already mentioned before me, the first regime concerns public institutions and non-profit NGOs where prepayments of 20% are allowed. It is also explicitly stated that the capacity of the prepayment is 20% even when it comes to entities of private law, that is to say, companies or individuals who carry out projects of European funds or the final beneficiaries of European funds. The payment deadlines for investments and investment transfers are being reduced, in such a way that, for those investments and transfers relating to payments after situations, payment periods may be up to 30 days. The amendment will fix that the payment deadlines may be between 30 and 60 days, because we do not want to jeopardise the liquidity of the state budget. In doing so, we stress that we want payment deadlines to be as short as possible. If the law allowed an extension of the time limits, the provision could lead to ambiguities in the conclusion of contracts. However, since there can be no doubt that liquidity problems may arise during the financial crisis, it is more appropriate to increase the percentage of possible liquidity indebtedness. This option is covered by Article 17 of the proposal of this Act. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u40	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the law on the implementation of the budget, for several reasons; why, I will explain now. For the first time, because there are general reasons and certain general comments that block or prevent, even in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, that this law on the implementation of the budget regulates things that do not belong to this law. For example, the salaries of public servants are regulated. We know that we have a whole bunch of legislation regulating salaries in the public sector, and the law on the implementation of the budget is not a place for wage regulation in the public sector. The government could propose and send to the National Assembly an amendment to payroll legislation and put in place these agreed changes between unions and the government; that is the first fundamental reason. The second, even more eloquent reason is that the law on the implementation of the budget regulates the amount of RTV contributions. It's a good thing you haven't regulated children's allowances, pensions and all the other things that don't belong in this law. The law is on the implementation of the budget, not the law on the level of the RTV contribution or the law on public sector wages. Despite the fact that the Law-Legal Service has pointed out that this is unsustainable for the transparency of the legal system, it is said that laws are intertwined, one regulates it, the other regulates it. And now let someone know where to look if they want to figure out the height of an RTV contribution, or if it's in the RTV Act, it's in the RTV Act. We could propose an RTV Act and regulate this thing there, which would be in accordance with the Slovenian legal order and, finally, with some farming logic, that matters should be regulated where they are. That's the first thing. The other thing is, with the help of some coalition parties, we have substantially corrected the provisions of this ZIP on key issues. The first key is that we have removed from the law the possibility provided for in Article 10 in order for the Government to abolish projects from the NRP, that is to say, projects from the Development Programme Plan. Parliament will adopt the Development Programmes Plan under the budget and then the Government would have the opportunity under this Article to abolish such a project. We have deleted this and this option is no longer in the corrected text. However, the second thing that I think is most important is Article 11, which refers to the country's payment deadlines. Do you know what the government has proposed in this article? She suggested that the payment period should be between 30 and 60 days, so that it could be shorter and longer. Now let me know if anyone understands what the payment deadline is going to be, whether it's 30, 60 or 90 days or 120 days, depending on the government. We cannot impose such ambiguity on those who will work for the country, therefore, to performers, because they will certainly be in uncertainty when they conclude such contracts and charge uncertainly there. This will make all the investments ordered by the State more expensive because those who apply for the tender will, of course, be charged this uncertainty about the payment deadlines. For in every contract there could be an item, the payment period may be longer if the liquidity of the State is threatened. The liquidity of the country after the adoption, which is likely to be adopted today, will be at risk 100% of the balance, as the tide will be less, the tide will be higher, the sparrows will be chirping in all branches, and it is clear that these payment deadlines will be longer at the same time. Thank God, so we have adopted a position on the Committee on the proposal of Mr Desus Willi Rezman, that the payment deadline is up to 30 days and that the possibility of that period being extended is deleted. A very important lesson that we have accepted goes to the congregations. I am engaged in goods and services resulting from the drawing-up of European funds and therefore the VAT obligation arises only when they receive the refund. It is said that they do not support the country with VAT, but only when they receive the refund. It is also important to stress that the country in Article 15 increases its debt write-off quota from EUR 420,000 to EUR million. So this year she will be able to write off a million euros in debt. Article 16 increases the scope of the debt by about one billion and a half. For one billion and a half euros, it is likely that those sitting in this Chamber today and being younger will pay at the expense of the country's indebtedness this year. And Article 17 increases the country's guarantees by 1.5 billion. So these are the reasons why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u42	Nice greetings to all present. Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Presidents and Guests in the Chamber. The Law on amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budget, in addition to the usual changes required by the rebalance of the revised budget, also introduces changes relating to the more efficient use of European funds by introducing a system of prepayments. First, for NGOs and institutions, 20% of the value of projects, reducing the cost of financing these projects to this sector, and secondly: for economic organisations, prepayments of 30% of the project are made available at the same time as adequate pre-payment insurance. In the field of changes aimed at making European funds more efficient, there are also changes to the power to redistribute the European Union's spending rights transferred from the governance authorities to the Government. In addition, amendments to the law allow calls for the co-financing of investments in local infrastructure for two years. In any event, provisions that define in more detail the issue of the development programme plan are welcome, both in terms of the inclusion of projects in the development programme plan and in terms of changes and re-inclusion of projects in the development programme plan. Indeed, we are convinced that many of the NRPs, which are listed by the previous drafters of the budget and with the blessing of the previous parliamentary call, are not enough to be included in it. In short, only on the basis of an idea plan do we think that the NRP should not be included. As a result, the use of funds for its execution is at risk. So, anyway, if we don't have the NRP written down or there's nothing to draw on this item, because in fact the building permit and similar things have not been provided in time, but the NRP has come into the budget due to, we'll say, pious desires or actually excessive appetites on the one hand and, on the other hand, the impossibility of a real project. In view of the increasing scope of the Institute of Building Rights, the law also defines the revenue provided for in this Title in more detail than the dedicated budgetary revenue. An important change introduced by amendments to the law is also the reduction of payment deadlines from a minimum of 60 to 60 days, or we will see what amendments will be adopted for investments and investment transfers. Unfortunately, the reduction of payment deadlines also does not ensure a reduction of payment deadlines between the main contractor and subcontractors, as this would be absolutely necessary in the current economic situation of a vicious cycle of insolvency. The amendment also contains a revised average for municipalities in accordance with the law and agreement between the Government and representative associations of local communities. In addition to these changes, there are also changes in the area of public sector wages resulting from the annex to the collective agreement and should, as a rule, be contained in amendments to the Public Sector Salaries Act; here we agree with the Pre-Prime Minister. However, they have been included in this law on the implementation of the budget according to the logic of the financial implications for the budget and the same applies to the fixing of the amount of RTV contribution. It's just that in times of time, a better solution obviously could not be found. Despite these concerns, we will adopt amendments to the Budget Implementation Act in the Zares Group - A new policy submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the views of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again. Let me provide support for the proposed law by the DeSUS Group, particularly because several amendments have been adopted on the Committee, which improve the basic text. But I just got a couple of pages of amendments on the table, and they're still warm, so I haven't been able to read them. And if I have correctly understood the Secretary of State's announcement, I must say in advance that at least as far as I am concerned; the Group of Members has not yet been able to coordinate on this; these changes that have already been made will not be supported by changes, especially in the case of deadlines and in the case of other measures that we have foreseen in support of the economy. For we, the ZIP-ro, i.e. the Budget Implementation Act, understand only in relation to the budget, in relation to the balance, in relation to the measures we have taken and which are still being announced in the future. Therefore, the need for this acceptance is understandable. The damage or problems are already great in the field of the economy, and it would be a mistake if we were to now rattling and trespassing on the ground. A series of measures that have been proposed and which have already been adopted, as well as those that we suspect will be proposed, do not work as we would like. The measures are announced, and they have not yet worked. Better use of European funds is announced, and we do not feel that way for once. Other measures that are not yet felt in the real sector are also announced, such as larger public procurement. All of this speaks of the great need for us to start acting proactively in the truth so that some of the words will also be fulfilled. The credit crunch is failing, statistically, the economy has not yet seen it, and all these measures, which are announced or perceived effects, are far too little for what we in Slovenia need in particular in the economy, including in the social field, which is now quite dramatically exacerbated. We understand the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia in this context. In this context, we also support it. The government was on the committee when we proposed some improvements, cooperative and listened, and supported some of our proposals. And we hope that this support to the economy will last until the end of this meeting. An economy of effective measures requires and is right to do so. Now is not the time to talk about whether it is a crisis or not, whether it is a recession or not. Nor is it a good time for government representatives to consternate the public in such a way as to discuss whether the measures are exceptional or extraordinary. I think it's just a blur of the essence of the problem. And now is not the time for this blurry. Nor is it the right time for us to continue to be on our knees before Maastricht and, as we hear echoes by government representatives, now the position is slightly different if, months ago, when we demanded it, we were still under our eyebrows, they are now predicting that they will do the same as other developed European countries to protect their economy, their social situation, because without it Europeans cannot be regulated. The economy requires measures, rapid, efficient. That is why we believe that action will really need to be taken in the coming weeks, perhaps sometimes harder than we are used to, and prepare ourselves at the same time for a hard social dialogue. I would like to recommend to the government, the top of the coalition, that his pants do not shake before forecasts of how the power of the union sector will be demonstrated, because if we do not help the economy, social measures will not be implemented. The economy will collapse before our eyes, as a result of state and other budgets and social shock absorbers will be threatened. So, we will support the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that the proposed amendments, which are now on the table, do not become too engrossed in what we have already adopted on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr Vice President, once again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear guests! We are also in the Slovenian National Party with regard to the adoption of the draft law on the implementation of the budget in a dilemma. And he won't hear me speak my mind. In a dilemma why? The first dilemma has already been heard and is worth considering. If the Legislative and Legal Service reminds us that, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, they interfere with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, Article 21, if they interfere with the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, Article 22, if Article 16 is inconsistent with Article 29, I will not talk about the content now because there is not enough time, I hope that you have looked at it. And last but not least we were happy with the additions, I think it was that article that was talking about payment deadlines and how the congregations were supposed to pay when the VAT municipalities were supposed to. We were pleased to see these changes in this article. As my predecessor has said, I have just received a proposal from an amendment on the table that undermines that amendment that we have adopted on the working body, so the deadline is up to 30 days and then has to be paid. Debt needs to be settled within 30 days and the second part of the intervention that municipalities would pay value-added debt in projects that are included in European funds when those funds were allocated. We agreed with this, even though we made a third mistake and reached out to ZIP in the substance of the Tax Policy Act. But I think it's a meter. The meter must be the same for everyone. Now, if we find a compromise, if we accept all that we agreed on on the parent's working body, that is to say, up to 30 days, not what has now come to the table, 30 to 60, back if we accept that the municipality pays VAT when the funds don't get credited, then we will eat all of these interventions of legal content from other laws in the ZIP and we will support it in the Slovenian National Party, but otherwise not. But I and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party are most concerned about Article 1. Nobody's ever talked about that before. Article 1 speaks in point 26 of the end of projects in the NRPs. It is clearly written: "The termination of the project is the exclusion of the project from the current NRP due to the withdrawal of the investor from the intended investment." Great, now let's ask ourselves who the investor is in the biggest cases. It's not an investor, Bogdan Barovich, I don't know, Mr. Anderlich, I don't know, it's a different story. The largest number of investors in NRP companies is the Ministry, which means that each ministry of one beautiful day, at some point politically or politically, decides to withdraw from a project. And this zip-ro law, I'm talking about now for a year, it makes it possible. Now we're just gonna make a deal, I don't know, one ministry is gonna say, we're gonna put that out because we're an investor, another ministry we're gonna put it out because we're an investor. I mean, great, great for, I hope not, political games, but it's not great, because we can't accept that the cancellation will just take place at the hands of an investor. I understand that sometimes money is running out, that it's not, I understand, and I accept it, because it's not a bottomless bag. Whether I doubt it or not, I say again, no matter who it was, who it was, who it is, who is in power, that there are too many political games in these investment content that I am now talking about to leave such an article as an option. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia if there remain substantive provisions on the amendments we have adopted on the home working body. But if not, then we'll object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law before us is an annual basis for the implementation of a valid budget. If we take a good look at him, we see that everything else is. In fact, we can say that this law is almost more important than the budget itself, as it also sets out the specificities of its implementation, the extent of its indebtedness and guarantees, the extent of the allocated funds to the municipalities, etc. Among other things, it also contains provisions that do not appear in this law in our opinion, and I am referring to an increase in the RTV subscription, which is quite by the way in this law. The other thing I'd like to point out is this. If we look at the complementary draft law, we see that almost as many changes have been made on the committee as this law has articles, i.e. changes to almost every article. With such an important law, we are actually wondering about the seriousness of the proposaler. We have also proposed three amendments in the SLS Group and are glad that two have been taken into account. We simply cannot understand the stubborn insistence of the Government that, at every opportunity, it is trying to find solutions to the liquidity problems of the state budget at the expense of economic operators. The solution was also totally unacceptable, which essentially eliminated the intention of the funds already allocated under the Programme to remedy the consequences of storms, hailstorms and other natural disasters. If the law remains the same as it was adopted on the home labour body, we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party, otherwise not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Amendments to the bill are tabled and we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled in this article. First of all, Article 1 to which the amendments have been tabled by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS Members. Anybody want a word? Please. Sign up for the debate. Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich applied to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u50	Nicely greeted! It is clear that we are adopting an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2008 and 2009, which in itself means that we are patching up something, we are adopting something because we have to do it. It is important to know that the 2009 and 2010 budget changes have not been considered in the past year, which would otherwise be normal, so the title itself, I would say many, because it is a law that applies back, which it certainly cannot. I will support the bill and also the amendment to Article 1, not because I would think that this amendment is better than what is in the law, but because I believe that all the elements need to be put together so that the balance and what is left of the 2009 budget are also capable of being realized. It is that I do agree with those who say that nothing can be squeezed into the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. We had already had a law, a budget as a law that was in force for that year, and which did not require many additional solutions in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, so it would probably make sense to think about changes. I also believe that this government will have to approach this by amending the Public Finance Act, a fundamental law which in fact regulates these relations, so that we can then get a budget for the current year as a budget that is so strong that in ZIP we can only determine enforcement. But seriously, for that year and in those segments that the budget also requires, not that the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets is actually a law on the law. I don't believe I heard any predictions here yesterday that we should even serve complaints or requests from the Constitutional Court to discuss and decide on the constitutionality of the rebalancing. This probably also applies to the Law on the implementation of the budget, even when it comes to projects that do not relate only to the budget or to the period of the current year, but which may also have longer time dynamics. In order not to advertise later in every article and amendment, it is my belief that, at the moment that we are actually patching up the financial year 2009 in new circumstances, in changed circumstances, and when some things cannot be regulated so that all the laws that we should have, and the law on RTV on the salaries of workers in the public sector, and a number of others, are allowed to do so in the Law on the implementation of the budget. And this first article is actually the one that regulates all the concepts of what it should be. That is why I say that I will support the amendment to Article 1, because we are now discussing this, but also all the others that have been tabled by the government coalition, with a serious commitment to prepare; I hope that not one more rebalancing is possible as soon as possible in this year; also a correction of the Law on the implementation of the budget. It will probably also happen that we will not discuss, at this time, the implementation of other laws through this law, but that there will already be a reflection on how to amend the Public Finance Act and how to make the 2010-2011 budget more sustainable and more specific, not that some things that do not appear here will be regulated in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 11 and the amendment to this Article tabled by SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Rezman. Anyone else? Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I can see, unfortunately, that DeSUS signed this too without me knowing it. However, I say that I will protest this amendment in the part where it speaks of changing deadlines that have already been harmonised on the working body. I don't accept this amendment. If the arguments here are: I had to read very quickly, I didn't have much time to think, because it's still almost warm paper; if there's anything else to fix, it can be arranged with some additional amendment, because now at the Ministry they've found that some other point within this article needs to be changed - to suggest what would be good to do. However, I do not accept the argument that they are not able to control the situation and eligibility of the pay-out condition. If they haven't been able to do this in 30 days, then they need to improve their control procedures. Because someone works poorly because he is not equipped enough, not everyone else who works properly can suffer. So, I certainly will not support this amendment and I propose that if the amendment needs to be supplemented or that we have adopted on a committee or any other article or point of re-amendment, then they should advise on what needs to be done so that what has been adopted on the working body can also be accepted at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs. Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Given that you wanted further explanations as to why such a dictatorship should be retained, so that the time limits should be valid for 30 to 60 days, I think I owe an explanation. These are some payments which necessarily require more time than will be available for the prescribed controls, to the extent that only a 30-day period applies. As a concrete example, I refer to all payments made in the field of conservation or rural development by the Agency for Agricultural Markets as a payment authority for such payments. The checks prescribed by European regulations require, in addition to administrative checks, a review of the dossier, whether it is complete, an examination of the accounts, whether they actually contain eligible costs and so on, also on-the-spot control. This means control to determine whether the subsidies used in the previous year have indeed been used to the extent and for the purposes for which they were granted. Such control, of course, requires much more time. And if we kept the 30-day deadline, of course there would be breaches of the prescribed deadline in this segment, as well as taking over construction investments. If we want to avoid repeating the stories we know, it is, of course, necessary to engage an external expert who takes over from this "segment". First, it is a waste of time to gain it, to bring the deadlines into line, and then it takes some time for this takeover to take place on the substantive side in such a way that there are no risks or that there are as few risks as possible that the payment has been made either unintentionally or inappropriately. As a result, however, we propose that a period of 60 days should be allowed, but I must say that in the current situation there has often been a situation where they wanted to take account of shorter deadlines than 60 days, and this could not be done because of the dictatorship that was in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. We therefore propose to supplement this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I can still see the applications. Please, does anyone else want to discuss this? Mr. Willy Rezman signed up first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u56	I tried to listen carefully to the explanation. I hope I got it right. If I understand correctly, the government is inclined to help the economy, individual contractors, government orders, or anyone who orders them. Is there any doubt that this short-term deadline would be problematic for some of the controls that have been mentioned today? My answer is as follows; if I understand correctly, this 30-day deadline would be taken into account for the majority. However, there are risks that some exceptional things could happen, as they are now at the crime line, and because such exceptional circumstances are possible, of course not all those who do what is right, who are the right performers when it comes to the major construction investments that you mentioned. However, if it is not possible to do so in the area of rural aid; I do not know how it is operationally; indeed, it is impossible to do so at that time, and then we could resolve this embarrassment in such a way that it remains as it is now, in the 30 days with an additive, except for, say, these aids granted by the Agency and must be controlled on the ground. I don't know why this help should be condemned in the same long-term by all the others who have nothing to do with it. So I'm asking, is it possible that an amendment could change in this direction, then, let's say, that would be acceptable to me?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u57	Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u58	In this amendment, we are talking about the country's payment deadlines. So far, the payment deadline has been considered 60 days, not 59 days, not 61 days, but 60 days. This is in certain cases where the state wanted to settle before, of course, cases were rare, but there was an obstacle and the one who was an investor was affected. Of course, we have now voted by majority on the Committee on Finance to significantly shorten this deadline in order to reduce it by at least 30 days. This is said to be a payment period of up to 30 days. If the state wanted to settle its obligations more quickly, it could, but anyone working for the country would know that it will not wait more than 30 days for the money. In times of financial and economic uncertainty, this is an extremely important message to the economy, which reduces and in fact reduces the payment of non-discipline further. In fact, anyone who works for the country has, of course, a bunch of subcontractors, also has equipment suppliers and everything else, and could, because of the previously received payment for the work done, have settled his obligations to subcontractors and suppliers. This is a good solution, and that is why we voted it. But what is now coming back through this amendment is uncertainty. It is said that the payment period will be between 30 and 60 days. In order to keep this deadline practically 60 days in all contracts, I am prevented by the fact that the Government initially proposed that this deadline could be extended even at the discretion of the Minister of Finance if the liquidity of the budget was jeopardised. Respectfully, I am confident that, with such an accepted balance as has been proposed and is likely to be adopted today, the liquidity of the country will be high throughout the year, the liquidity problem or liquidity problem, because a lot of expenditure is planned and there will be no revenue. Since there will be no revenue, the State will retain payments in order to meet certain liquidity criteria, of course. With such a deadline of 30 to 60 days, we have done nothing because the payment deadline will be 60 days, it will not be shorter. He won't. To say, then, that the added value of this law is also a reduction in payment deadlines simply does not hold. Perhaps that sounds good, perhaps from the dictates of the article can also come true, but this simply will not happen. And for this reason, of course, we will insist on a solution that was originally enshrined in the law or that was originally voted on by the Committee on Finance and is also now written in the bill as the basic solution to which the amendment is tabled. I therefore believe that in such uncertain times we must not afford to transfer this uncertainty to the real sector or to the economy. And let me, once again, the government is not foreign to this uncertainty, for this is evidence of the basic text of the law that said that the payment period is between 30 and 60 days, that this period may be shorter and that this period may be longer. Now imagine that we are contractors for the country, what is the payment deadline for such a dictatorship? I don't know, and neither does that contractor. And believe me, no contractor is going to risk this deadline being a debt, but he's going to charge this nice to the state because he's going to insure these things, the insurance costs, the risk, and everything he's going to do for the country is going to be more expensive. This is said to further contribute to the pressure on the spending side. Therefore, if we are to take a serious step forward in reducing payment deadlines, we must support the basic dictatorship of this Article, which reduces the payment deadline to 30 days. I also observed a certain correction in the second part of the amendment in the direction of local communities and investment transfers, which are paid to the municipalities on a case-by-case basis. According to some rapid estimates, this is a step in the right direction, so we could also swallow part of that amendment, which was originally voted for by the congregations. However, as far as payment deadlines are concerned, we insist that they be clearly reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. As I mentioned at the presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, I have two documents before me. One is the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of 25. 3. At the meeting of which we have sat for 10 hours, and in good faith we have also agreed on something. The second paper is the amendment of 26. 3. four parliamentary groups. And, as has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the ZIP, if adopted, specifically, the amendment to Article 11 of the four groups of Members of 26. 3 Why? [[..]] Because we have agreed and accepted on the working body in the first indent of the amendment, which states: "In the first paragraph of Article 22 the words '60 days' shall be replaced by 'up to a maximum of 30 days' in the first paragraph of Article 1. I don't understand, without the presence of coalition representatives, we couldn't accept this amendment, but we did. I don't know why we're going back to the original dictatorship now, but if it's already been told that it's going to be day 60 and a dot and it's not going to happen. On the other hand, I do not allow or the Slovenian National Party will not allow the amendment adopted in Article 11 of the report of the parent labour body to be deleted from point 3, the very last paragraph, where it was nicely and rightly said, to the municipalities for goods and services provided by the drawing-up of European funds, creates an obligation to charge VAT when they receive the refund of these funds. This work, which was adopted on the home work body, was also included in the amendment of 26. The three four groups of Members are not. And also that work under point 5, the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in the amendment of 26. 3. Member groups, I do not follow up on the payment of investment transfers. So, the mother's working body accepted some amendments, we found agreement. That means that's why we accepted them. But now we're throwing up again for 10 hours working for nothing. Because we're going back to nothing because we're going back to what happened. I am asking, colleagues and colleagues to consider the contents of this amendment, article 11, which was adopted on the home working body and the content that we have received on the table today. If they do not know something, let them ask people who know a little more about this, that we will make a fair decision about the work and life of all people. It's not just one political option or another. It is necessary to have a fair relationship with all consumers, creditors and debtors today. Delaying, non-payment, lending municipalities with value added tax payments for funds received after two, three, God knows how much later, of course, is not fair. And this is what we tried to do through Article 11 and please, let's be so honest if the mother's working body has found a compromise in ten hours; and I think, I know, Mrs. Kamnareva has been present all the time and has presented the Government's views, right, but the mother's committee has said its position; now we have to make a deal. If we have already adopted the position set out in the report of the parent’s working body, let us insist on that. I don't understand why in two days such a change. In the Slovenian National Party, we will insist on the amendment contained in the report of the parent working body and will oppose the amendment to Article 11, paragraph 4, of the 26th Amendment. 3. 2009 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm asking, have we closed the debate on Article 11? Not yet. I'm opening time for discussion. Here you go. The first one has the word, Mr Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. It seems at first hearings like those deadlines and returns that in short, the state should settle its obligations in 30 days, and I find it difficult to believe the argument put forward here that operators should pay their subcontractors on a regular basis, etc. I think such an exaggerated belief in the business ethics of performers is out of place. If the operators were truly so ethical and would pay their subcontractors, as soon as they received funds from the State, they would probably not be in such a situation as it is now in the Slovenian economy. And if, on a global scale, this ethics really were to be maintained, I guess we wouldn't be in this economic crisis right now. I think that this is where we need to look for the causes of this crisis, not the solution to this crisis. I think that if, on the one hand, we believe so much in the economy that it will settle its debts with each other, we must also believe in the state that if it is necessary to do so within 30 days or earlier, if it is possible, it will still be in the 60s at the latest. There is no commitment on the part of contractors to settle their obligations within 60 days at the latest. Some of them never do. That's why they go bankrupt and we're here. I think these proposed amendments by the four coalition groups are a better solution in the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u63	Of course, there's no problem. We'll open the time to report again. Please. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u64	A very short response to what has just been heard. There is no reason why but the priors would trust a hundred percent to anyone, not only in the economy, but also in the family, it is also in Parliament, and so on and so forth. We continue to find ourselves in situations where we feel both played and not from the economy, possibly from politicians. But to sow a primal suspicion and unethicalism in the economy, which I find quite unacceptable. This way to support the economy with suspicion that there are mainly those who cheat, and this is really not support for our Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I myself will not support the amendment to Article 11. I am surprised that I was convinced that you were on the Committee on Finance, although I was not there, that you reached an agreement or agreed together that we would bring this matter together and adopt such a proposal to shorten the country's payment deadline to 15 days. Now you're returning this with an amendment to the state before that. I do not understand what happened in a few days to those Members who supported such a proposal on the Committee. We continue to listen to what a difficult situation we are in, and it is likely that this payment period by the State at this time is really unacceptable if we really want to help the economy. As I say, I object to this amendment and will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u68	Some coalition MPs obviously don't listen to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of the Government said he would lead this country by example. The State must be an example, and others will follow these examples. That's why he started saving on coffee and stuff, I'm sorry. If other citizens have begun to save during the crisis, it is only a deepening crisis and deepening it further. If we have decided, or if you have decided, that it is good to be an example for ministers, Members and others to lower wages and that they should share the fate of the economy with public servants, a kind of example, because some serious economic effects will not have this in any way, then it would be nice to follow this example also at payment deadlines to pay. And that's what we're talking about. This amendment suggests that the country should be a slightly better example of the economy in paying, but not a worse one. And now imagine that the economy would be the same as the state and would say the main contractor to the subcontractor: "I will pay you in the 30s to 60s, but I can pay you longer if I have liquidity problems." And that's what the other contractor would have done by the third. When would this third guy get the money?Oh, my God! Based on that logic, probably after a year or so. And I think with that logic, we need to cut these payment hands short and expect that from others. And one more thing. I would like to recall the legislation adopted that, unless the subcontractor receives money from the contractor for projects ordered by the State, the State may reimburse the subcontractor directly. So you can skip the contractor if he's the one blocking and not sticking to the agreed payment deadlines. So, last but not least, if we are to set a serious example and a better master's logic before economic operators, we must do it ourselves first. And this is the spirit and basic idea of this solution voted by the Committee on Finance. Unfortunately, the government is returning to its original base, and I see that the coalition, unfortunately, supports this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. There is no way that I can understand that we are back in article 11 on an old path that has somehow been mapped out. To at least write the '60s day' lecture, not '30 to 60 days'. Do you know what that means? That's the same thing when employees come to the employer for a salary, I'd say, "Come back again for a salary." What understanding would these employees have with this assumed or CEO of the company?Oh, my God! Let us also destroy the actual functioning of the Finance Committee. On the Committee on Finance, we are voting on the actual payment with a shorter deadline of up to 30 days. Now, in the National Assembly, in this great temple, he is trying again, but perhaps it will just go back to the way it was. Once again, I appeal to everything - why it is important to cut the deadline. You know, at the 60-day payment deadline, then they automatically start to say that if the state doesn't pay sooner than in the 60s, how can we pay faster?Oh, my God! I think that the state must be the first example for the economic sector to come with payment deadlines for 30 days, not 60, 90, the mayors even pay them in a year's time. This does not lead anywhere if you are ever moving payment hands in an economic crisis, then you are sinking further into an insurmountable problem. If we want solutions, we must surely accept this amendment, which we have already adopted on the working body. In fact, the payment deadline is 30 days, but it's not from until. The term can only be one, they can't be paydays from and to. I hope you understand the situation in which there is an economy in which the municipalities, in fact the whole of Slovenia or the whole world, are in, in the end, to listen to this and take a step forward, because this will create a greater payment discipline, and there is no excuse to say that tax institutions are not qualified and so on. Tax institutions, believe they're qualified. Tax institutions can check any employer at any moment, and that's fine. In 2006, we concentrated tax institutions from smaller tax administrations to large tax administrations in the economic sector. This is also true, because it has become more supervision, greater transparency, only if people are less conscientious in those jobs, that is the only question, but not that they cannot review the accuracy of the business rather than the 60th day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 11 and the amendment? I'm asking you again. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I myself do not fully support this amendment to Article 11, and I agree with the speakers who said that the proposal adopted by the Committee on Finance was more consistent. It also seems to me that the granting of arbitration, or the payment deadline of 30 to a maximum of 60 days, is somewhat misplaced and I think that the proposal adopted by the committee was more appropriate. Here we are also talking about the 30-day deadline in connection with the fifth indent, which discusses the facilitations that this system would bring to the municipalities in paying for situations relating to European funds. However, if we read correctly, this proposal also speaks of a 30-day deadline for the documentation to be submitted to the Ministry. So, 30-day payment period and 30-day deadline before we enforce this possibility of getting funds one day before payment. It is said that we are in time trouble, and this article does not actually seem to be fully operational to me. So I think that the proposal proposed by the Committee to enable municipalities to begin to comply with the VAT obligation when they receive the refund from these funds from the European Union or from other funds is more concrete and more resilient. For this Article 5 also says, "When the user submits complete documentation" and so on. So there is a lot of room for acting by the Ministry. However, our proposal was very specific, so when the VAT obligation arises, VAT is charged to the State when the municipality or some other beneficiary receives the reimbursement of funds granted by a decision. And when he gets that money in his G.I. account, he also pays VAT. This is a very operational and very specific matter that does not allow for any play in implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I agree with one of the speakers who said that some coalition Members do not listen to the words of the Prime Minister of the Government. Even more, they do not listen to the coalition partners, the mutual arrangements, they obviously do not respect or listen to the views of their own Group of Members, and they may be surprised that this Group of Members is preparing an amendment against which they are and which they did not know. And here, I think, this problem comes from voting on the Committee on Finance, which is why any reference to this Committee and its opinion, in short, to the fact that the coalition has already adopted such comments on the Committee and is now rejecting such comments at the plenary session, without purpose. I am convinced that since its inception, which has also been conditioned by the needs of the economy for a better environment, has taken care of its economy, brought it into the economic framework of the wider European Union, into a financial and monetary system that provides it with some kind of security, stability and so on. Of course, I agree that this relationship between the country and the economy is important if it is reciprocal. It says, when it goes bad, it goes bad for everyone, and even when it goes well, it goes well for everyone. When the economy is doing well, this country must also return it. I think that the country, which can do both in good and in bad, has done and does, but in the economy can have its own opinions. More or less these opinions can now be read on the front pages of all Slovenian newspapers and these opinions are black, black and bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I am convinced that what was the result of the Committee on Public Finance is in fact our common objective. This must also be pursued; therefore, the State must comply with its obligations at the shortest possible time. The fact is, there are some problems for technology to achieve this objective. If you are so loud today when you claim this from the current government, I wonder why these deadlines at this point, at the point of the VAT law and also at some other points, you did not require the government of Janez Janša. It should be pointed out that today, in the framework of the amendments to Article 11, we are talking about a smaller part of the state budget payments, which covers about 10% of the funds - i.e. the part relating to investment works, all the other payments are valid in the regime, payment or up to 30 days. In this respect, the situation should be looked at more objectively and it should be concluded that a shorter payment up to 30 days today is predominant for the majority of payments made from the State budget. However, to include this common objective in the text of the Law on the implementation of the budget, I am speaking to the fourth paragraph of the amendment, which says: "The Minister responsible for finance may also set a shorter payment deadline in other cases where this is necessary, either in order to ensure an efficient and efficient management of budgetary resources, in order to prevent the economic damage that would have occurred if payment were not made within a shorter period of time." In this respect, in view of the common recognition of this common objective, so that the country's payments should be reduced to the minimum possible time limits, I note, however, that the country needs a wider space of manoeuvre in these acute circumstances, in particular due to tight liquidity. That's why I'm going to support the coalition amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss article 11 and the amendment to this article? I guess not. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. And I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15, the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss this article? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21, namely the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment and the article? I guess not. I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 of the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Please, Minister of Culture Maja Shirca Ravnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In view of the views expressed by individual parliamentary groups, if this amendment or this solution, which means a change in the payment of the RTV contribution "does not fit", is not appropriate within this law. I have to explain because this is a process which, of course, requires very thorough explanations. The fact that we come within the ZIP is a change in the article or a change in the decision on the amount of RTV contributions, not in the RTV Act, to which it is intended and also of a purely political nature. It comes from the past, from previous years or from when the government of Janez Janša decided to have a better and cheaper programme on RTV Slovenia. It was a conscious freeze on the change of the RTV contribution or for the promise made to the management of RTV Slovenia that in the year when the RTV Slovenia was already shown and also confirmed the great, fatal consequences of the frozen payment and the house itself came into dangerous undernutrition financially, it was said that before the elections the RTV contribution would not change, so Janez Janša, but only after the elections. After the elections, of course, there was a situation where calculations showed that this contribution, which has not changed since 2004, under the applicable law - or if I simplify it, under Grims' law - cannot be changed for the following year because the key article says that it should be harmonised by September and then minus or plus 10% adjustment if the economic reasons for this are to be introduced only for the following year. In short, the government was before whether the discounts generated from another address were due to the Public Sector Wage System Act, which is supposed to bring RTV to Slovenia, so she says, EUR 10 million minus, to change, to regulate in a way that would be legal. Of course, it is very bizarre or unhygienic today when the MP who presented the SDS position and, when he advocated that this change, this amendment number 25, which speaks of the withdrawal of this solution by the Government, is unhygienic. That this comes from the very mouth of the one who created non-hygienicity in the previous period - I must stress this because of another problem that comes from RTV and which we have tried to solve; that is, from the fact that Mr Virant or the relevant ministries, trade unions and RTV Slovenia signed a promise last year that the Government will take care of the consequences of the introduction of a wage system that was not small for RTV. Mr. Virant had this in mind, knowing that the law did not give him these grounds. Since this was subsequently learned, it began literally, I apologize for the term "trade" or speculate with the budget money which he had directed to RTV - knowing that he could not for other things and other purposes - money for the rehabilitation of the payroll system. And this happened right through the Ministry of the Economy, when the government's decision transferred 1.2 million euros, saying that we give money for digitisation, which the law allows, and then it turned into pay. In short, a lot of political indiscretions have been made in the past for a public institution that, in the end, did not operate wisely, and we know that, and that is probably what he will be doing sooner or later. Also for the fact that, by the way, it is probably very questionable that the 2009 plan is taken on the basis of a decision, as if this euro, the so-called increased euro for RTV contribution, is already a fact. Indeed, the 2009 plan has been confirmed by the Supervisory Board, despite the fact that you have not yet confirmed the ZIPR in the National Assembly, which allows this contribution to be established at all. In short, it's hard in a few minutes to say all the inconsistencies that have been. However, it is difficult to tell the Government that it is inconsistent to try to normalise the situation and previous decisions by giving the possibility within the Budget Implementation Act to regulate the payment of RTV contributions in the proposed way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Does he? I note that no one wants to discuss, so I am concluding the debate on Article 25 and the amendment to this Article. I also note that we have exhausted the debate on the amendments and that since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th A item on the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence - urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Would you like a word from the government? I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members. The Act on Payment to Victims of War and Post-war Violence provides for a means of providing compensation for war and post-war violence paid under other laws. The beneficiaries of compensation are determined by three other laws, namely the Law on Victims of War Violence, the Law on the Correction of Justices and the Law on the Special Rights of Victims in War for Slovenia. According to the law currently under consideration, the rights under the said laws are paid by the Slovenian Compensation Society, i.e. they are paid in two ways - up to a nominal amount of 1251,81 euros and in RS 36 bonds in the case of amounts above that nominal amount. The last maturity of the bond is 15.9.2008, which means that the bond has already fully paid. The fact is that the current situation is such that several bond rights decisions have been issued, such as the ability to issue bonds, since the sum of bonds has been limited to an amount that has not been sufficient to cover all obligations. It is therefore necessary to increase the total of the bonds issued by 2 million 500 bonds in order to fulfil the obligations set out in the decisions received by the beneficiaries. The main solutions introduced by the amendment of the law are, therefore, the increase or additional issue of RS39 obligations, so that we can pay all the obligations or so that the Court can pay all the obligations for the decisions already issued. Furthermore, the law regulates the issue or manner of payment of obligations to those beneficiaries who will submit applications within an unlimited period of time, namely, that no more bonds are issued, but that full payments are made in cash. This is due in particular to the fact that, at this point, it is not possible to assess the number of beneficiaries and the extent of the required issue of the bond. We are also proposing another solution, namely, that the law so far did not ensure transparency in the decisions issued and that we are therefore under an obligation to keep certain records, which would make this transparency of decision-making and all the obligations arising from these decisions better than ever. The government estimates that the adoption of the law is urgently needed, because otherwise the situation may arise for the beneficiaries who have received the decisions to initiate judicial proceedings, which would, of course, result in additional costs. We therefore propose that you support the bill, as before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Mr Bogdan Čepič for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everyone. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 23rd meeting. 3. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for treatment and adoption following an urgent procedure. Such a proposal was also addressed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 17th session. 3. 2009 and also supported such a decision. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. That service also forwarded its findings and made some specific comments on the 2, 3, 4, 6, 15a, 15b, 15c and 7 and 8 articles of the Act. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meeting of the Committee. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. In the context of additional working material, the Committee was informed of the amendments, based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In fact, it follows from the explanation of the legal proposal that the Act on the Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence provides for the provision of funds for undisturbed damage and kind and the amount of compensation to be paid on that basis. A Slovenian compensation company, hereinafter referred to as the SOD, shall pay compensation to beneficiaries on the basis of this Act by paying compensation in cash up to EUR 1251.88 and the second part should be paid in bonds if the beneficiary under this law is entitled to compensation in accordance with a legislative decision exceeding that amount. The level of issue and other terms of these bonds are set out in Article 14 of the same law. In order to pay compensation under the law on the provision of these funds, our country has issued such bonds with a specified maturity and maturity, with an expiry period of five years. At the same time, due to the excess number of decisions in relation to the issue of such bonds, these are the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia 39, should also be increased accordingly. Otherwise, both laws, the Law on Victims of War Violence and the Law on the Correction of Unlawfulness, which constitute the basis for the recognition of the status of the beneficiary of compensation, do not provide for a time limit for the lodging of a claim, and therefore the decision to grant such rights may be extended considerably after the time limit of the commitment. In addition to the above, the text sets out a detailed record of the procedures and at the same time enables access to data for scientific purposes. The envisaged accounts of beneficiaries should allow for the effective payment of compensations and adequate supervision of the legitimate use of funds. In an additional explanation for the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the comments submitted were mainly contained in the proposal for amendments to the Committee and further highlighted some key points of that service which had not been taken into account under the amendment proposal. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered all the comments and amendments and has also adopted them and the amendments are listed in the report which you have also received. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted individual articles and a proposal for a law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law already included in the adopted amendments is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. You have also received the amended proposal through the report of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much again. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence by means of an urgent procedure. By adopting this proposal, we have been late for a good half-year, since it represents the maturity of the Republic of Slovenia bonds 39 of 15. 9. 2008 In fact, a legal void has arisen, which makes it impossible to enforce decisions on the award of compensation to victims of war and post-war violence who have already been given decisions and are also legally competent. In fact, such decisions are already profitable and could result in the non-admission of this law - and, consequently, the provision of funds - additional damage because the beneficiaries could also sue the country for the payment of these compensations. However, when this law was examined, there was a high degree of opacity of the accounts of the beneficiaries of the compensation from the various titles. We therefore propose that the Government prepare information on the decisions issued under this Act, the number of decisions issued, the number of beneficiaries, the number of different grounds in the law, the estimated total amount and the estimated amounts according to the individual basis of the law on the correction of wrongs. In accordance with the Law on Victims of War Violence, the number of decisions issued, the number of beneficiaries, the number of different grounds and also the law on the special rights of victims in the war for Slovenia should also be drawn up. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, should prepare an assessment of the situation and responsibilities for the non-compliance of decisions issued with issued bonds and find fault with the delay in dealing with this issue, as we know that it is more than a six-year delay and find out who the actual culprits are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Pursuant to Article 12 of the Act on the payment of damages to victims of war and post-war violence, the Slovenian Indemnity Company must, on the basis of a Commission decision to implement the law on the correction of injustices, calculate to the beneficiaries the amount of compensation to which it belongs and thereby issue a decision. Since September 2008, the Court has no longer issued these decisions in the amount of compensation. However, the Court did not pay compensation to those beneficiaries who had the decisions. The reason for this should be the maturity of the Republic of Slovenia 39 bonds, of 15. 9. 2008 The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence provides that, following the maturity of RS 39 bonds, those who have not yet received the decisions shall be compensated and paid in full in cash. At the same time, conditions are also provided for the enforcement of decisions already issued, which are pending the entry into force of this Act, which also apply for the payment of part of the compensation by issuing the bonds. The proposal for a law provides that these decisions continue to be subject to the provisions of the ZSPOZ and the rules issued on its basis, which means that the injured persons will receive the bonds in addition to the monetary compensation. The review of the law also sets out detailed records of procedures and decisions under the law on the correction of injustices. From the point of view of scientific research, access to records data is also made possible, as provided for in Article 102 of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. The detailed records of beneficiaries under the law on the correction of wrongs should allow for the effective payment of damages and supervision of the legal use of financial resources. We will support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Zares Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the amendment of the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. Despite our support, however, we would like to point out that in this case it is a law of intervention that eliminates the negative consequences of the mistreatment of the former government. By amending the law on the correction of wrongs, it caused a legal void or inability to fulfil legal obligations, i.e. to pay damages. In that law, the former Government had abolished the time limit for lodging claims, but had not foreseen the relevant financial implications of the measure. As it is said, the fall of last year, due to the failure of the Republic bonds, 39th edition, which means that there is no longer a source of compensation for the victims, there is an inability to pay them. The latter may also bring this action to the beneficiaries, which could result in costs to the State budget, not only on the basis of their eligible compensations, but also the costs of procedures and late interest due to the non-payment of compensation. In order to meet the legal obligations, the amount of the bonds mentioned must be increased by EUR 2.5 million and, upon their maturity, the compensation will have to be assessed and paid in full in cash. Indemnities recognised in decisions to be or to be issued after 15 September 2008 will not be able to be paid in the form of bonds issued by the Republic of Slovenia. 39th edition. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we really believe that regardless of the current financial and economic crisis, the principles of the rule of law must be corrected by the injustices suffered by citizens and citizens during the inter-war and post-war periods. That is why we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u90	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, everything has already been said, so let me add to this matter only that the time is running out for those who already have the right to compensation for their injustices to receive their compensation. It is also right that this will no longer be paid in the form of bonds but in cash. Above all, this is important for those who already have decisions, but they had to wait until summer for this to happen, and it is right to get everything in cash. It is also inappropriate, in our opinion, that those who are still seeking justice and obtaining an appropriate decision receive in cash compensation, which is already limited by law to some 8,000 euros and does not represent terrible sums and large sums, in particular for the individual. Often, this compensation is also in severe disassociation with the damage that has been done, and it is therefore right that this legal void be filled with the adoption of the law and that these compensations are paid in an undisturbed manner even in the future. Our parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u92	Again and again a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues, you, Mr President, and representatives of the Government! We do not understand anything in the Slovenian National Party. See, the Act on Compensation for Victims of War Violence has an anniversary of 2001, 2002 and 2004. So it's the law. Slovenia issued bonds to compensate victims of war and post-war violence. Nominal values - EUR 125 million 100,000. 30 million bonds, each worth 4.17 euros; payability - 5 years. The maturity date was September 15th last year. Suddenly, the Slovenian Indemnity Company found that it had issued 29 million 665 thousand bonds, amounting to 335 thousand less than envisaged, while also issuing more decisions. More! More! More! Every law, every provision has a certain period of validity, maturity. The court granted and issued more decisions than the bonds were issued, but now: "Pay. Pay the country!" The estimated financial implications for the Court are: "€10 million and €425,000". Oh. K. and another $2 million 850 for interest. However, when we read how many more obligations the Court has promised, we will arrive at EUR 32 million 500 thousand. In short, math here is not a deck. "Not a deck," just "not a deck"! Simple, elementary school, 1st grade, not a deck. Now what? Payments of compensation - "forever and ever, amen." Every year there will be 782 thousand new, new, new! Are we in a recession?Oh, my God! Yesterday the National Assembly was sitting all day, some part of the day, the other all day - with all due respect! 10 hours of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, saving, "sparmo", looking for options to help people not go to the Red Cross, but to go to sew in Mura. But we're just giving it here! The court promises. Promise! Simply, 30 million bonds he promised to give, he betrayed, and he promised much more. Yeah, who's allowed that?Oh, my God! Please, come on! And how we hope here when people stand in line for food and packages on the Red Cross, when we don't have money for basic simple reproduction, that we will raise the economy in this country, that these 2 million people will live, someone promises and converts for 32, for 100 million euros. And we'll pay for them! To whom and for what?Oh, my God! 2001, 2002, 2004 - were laws. That's when everyone checked in. War and post-war damages. All had the option, the deadlines were set, the bonds were set, the value of the bonds was determined. Pika! In the morning, I will also be a victim of war violence, because I was in the Slovenian war. And then there will be others, those who walked for 14 days, victims of war violence. It's not fair, it's not fair in this country, ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest once, not say it's right, it's nice! Everything was arranged, not to say that it was not now, everything was arranged - 2001, 2002, 2004! All the laws were, all the decisions were, the money was paid up to 1,200 euros to everyone, the bonds were issued. What else do we want?Oh, my God! How many more are we gonna find?Oh, my God! We're just gonna make up some new victims, and I don't know what else?Oh, my God! I don't care if it's post-war or war. It's not nice what happened back then and what happened. War is war, but it happened. The damages were made today, the laws were written, the time limit applies to everyone. And that's it. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Not at all, not at this time!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Act on the payment of compensation to victims of war and post-war violence authorizes the Slovenian Compensation Society, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, to conduct procedures and carry out administrative and technical transactions in the payment of damages, up to a certain amount being paid in cash and surplus in bonds. Since more decisions have been issued than bonds, the proposed law increases the bond mission by slightly less than €10 and a half million. Since the law on victims of war violence and the law on the correction of wrongs do not set a time limit for the lodging of a claim, it is necessary to determine how compensation is to be paid even after the maturity of the bonds. The bill also solves the issue of how it will be paid in full in cash. We have no reservations in the parliamentary group to the proposed proposals, and we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th A item on the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 6th A Dot of the Day - Defence Proposal of the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia - urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much again for your word. Your Honor! The Guarantee Scheme Act, which is currently under consideration, was adopted by the Government as an implementing act of the second package of development-oriented measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis. The measures, which are still primarily aimed at promoting bank credit activity and thus improving corporate liquidity, are covered by this second package and also by this guarantee scheme, which is ahead of us, are part of this package. In conditions of extreme uncertainty in the external economic environment, the proposal of the second anti-crisis package is prepared on the basis of the first experience of the countries of the European Union with regard to economic recovery or crisis prevention. We believe that the national measures of Great Britain, France, Germany and Finland and Austria, as well as the Netherlands and Denmark, represent very similar measures as proposed by this law in Slovenia. Allow me to present briefly these measures introduced by other countries. The UK has introduced a loan guarantee scheme for small businesses already at the end of last year, worth £350 million and a guarantee scheme for other companies worth £300 billion in January this year. By means of these guarantee schemes, it sought to cover long-term bank loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, with the State taking over a guarantee of up to 75% of the loans. The same was followed by France, Germany and Scandinavian countries at different levels and with different levels of State guarantees. However, all these schemes are largely similar to each other and provide guarantees to the State for the loans that the banks will lend to the companies. In short, it is about guaranteeing the state and taking over part of the risks of banks in relation to businesses. The Guarantee Scheme Act, submitted by the Government for consideration, aims to enable companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to have easier access to liquidity funds to finance investment, as well as to reprogram existing short-term liabilities in a smaller part, as they have proved to be still major problems in companies at the moment. The guarantee scheme covers companies in three rating classes, namely A, B and C. It is those credit rating classes according to which AJPES assesses their creditworthiness as good. The state assumes a guarantee of 80%, the difference of 20% will be taken over by banks. In view of the first-class insurance provided by the State guarantee, we anticipate that banks will be more inclined to lend and that in this way there will be further relaxation of the so-called credit crunch that has arisen as a result of the global crisis. Banks participating in the guarantee scheme will have to bear some of the risks themselves, as I have already said. The scope of the guarantees will be EUR 1.2 billion, and the amount of credits that can be issued for which guarantees can be issued will be from EUR 100,000 to EUR 70 million for each borrower. The law lays down certain conditions and criteria for obtaining credit and, on the other hand, more detailed conditions refer to a sub-legislative act. The implementation of the guarantee scheme shall be left to the Slovenian Development and Export Bank, which shall enter as an operator on behalf of and on behalf of the State. The law also provides for the commission to be paid to this implementing institution to the extent of 0.5% of the value.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u97	Madam Secretary of State, please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. [[The ad in the hall.]] Peace in the hall, please. Peace and concentration in the hall, please. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. You received the draft report on the bench. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I am sorry, the president of the Committee on Finance has now come in and I ask him to present the report of the home working body. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] First, the Chairman of the Committee, then the position of the Group of Members is presented. Here you go, mag. Anton Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We will secondly authorize Mr Visionak to do so under any of the following laws. Dear Members! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent of the labour force, has considered the proposal for a guarantee scheme law. In a complementary explanation of the bill, the representative of the Government explained the basic objectives and purposes of the proposed law. The proposed law is part of the so-called second package of government measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis. Its aim is to enable companies in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain liquid assets to finance investments in investments and in operating assets. In view of the first-class insurance provided by the State guarantee, it is envisaged that banks will be more inclined to act on credits, which will contribute to the release of the so-called credit crunch resulting from the global economic and financial crisis. The draft law lays down the conditions, criteria and framework procedure for the issuing of guarantees, to be regulated in detail by a specific sub-legislative act or regulation to be issued in accordance with Article 4 of this proposal. The proposer assured the members of the Committee that before the final adoption of the regulation, the Government would also forward this opinion to the home committee or to the National Assembly. While the text of the law will be sent by the Government to the European Commission's Competitiveness Directorate to review it in terms of its compliance with the rules of the internal market. More problems are not expected, but some amendments will probably need to be properly aligned with the bill. Members and members of the committee unanimously supported the proposed law in the debate, since the law represents potentially important support for the real part of the economy. In this context, the proposed law could undoubtedly be one of the more important laws to help mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. It is therefore very important that it be written in such a way that its purpose is truly achieved. Slovenia is not only in a credit crunch, but also in a sales, production or economic. At the time of its adoption, it is important to be particularly careful that we do not re-adopt a measure that does not work to the full. Its provisions must be designed to help the economy as much as possible. This also means, for example, that the loans that banks will give to the economy under the State guarantee must be affordable. The members of the Committee stressed that, while it was good that the Government had included companies in the guarantee scheme in the class C rating scheme, it was not right and it was not logical that this would not be treated equally. The debate highlighted that the members of the Committee would like to see a regulation to be drawn up on the basis of this law. The majority of the members of the Committee pointed out that it would be advisable to pursue such practices so that these regulations would nevertheless come to the parental committee and could be discussed in particular in these times. Following the consideration of the individual articles, the Committee, after a thorough discussion, unanimously drafted and adopted a series of amendments in particular to key provisions on the basis of which the law can be implemented in practice. The Committee has thus adopted some of the substantive amendments that I would like to make with particular emphasis. He practically rewrote the provision of Article 7, which defines the purpose of the loans for which the guarantee is to be issued, has extended the duration of the loans. The guarantee scheme included the reprogramming of short-term loans into medium- and long-term loans. In Articles 10 and 11, it has levelled the companies of all three rating classes, both in terms of the level of the credit obligation to which the State guarantee applies and in terms of the scope of the guarantee scheme. It reduced the level of commissions and reduced the deadline for the preparation of the regulation. Dear Members, before you is an important law, a law that can significantly improve the situation and prospects of many Slovenian companies. The law applies to about 37,000 companies, which represent the most important, best and most promising core of the Slovenian economy, so I propose that you support the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is to be made. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As late as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the mother's working body is late for the presentation, this law is also late for the National Assembly. In fact, let me remind you that the previous government and the current government have also cooperated and summarised, proposed to Parliament the Public Finance Act, which opened the possibility of additional guarantees from the State to the banks, and the Guarantee Scheme Act is the implementation of this solution, which was proposed last December. We have heard that some countries that have clearly paid more attention to solving this crisis and have responded to business problems have proposed such laws in December last year, and today we have the first reports in these countries on the effects of these guarantees that companies can receive through financial institutions under such laws. We are just discussing the adoption of this law, which is needed. And not just that! The implementation of this law is based on the regulation provided for in Article 4 of this Law, which is not yet ready. The government even proposed that this Regulation should not be adopted until 30 days after the entry into force of the law, i.e. sometime apparently in May, when it is likely that - six months later, this guarantee scheme, as it has begun in other European Union countries, would be in operation at all. Too late, ladies and gentlemen! That is why we are also witnessing such sad data from the real sector from the Slovenian economy every day. Therefore, I am very sorry that it took the Ministry of Finance for several months to prepare all several articles of less than 20 and around 20 articles of this Act, but it has not yet prepared a key document which regulates the more detailed conditions of the guarantee procedure, which also deals with more detailed other issues relating to the implementation of this Act. So, the purpose is good, in fact, it has been unanimously confirmed all the time, but unfortunately it is too late and the payment for it comes from the real sector every day in unemployment numbers and so forth. It is also important to point out that there is no indication of the circumstances under which this law will work which will be laid down in the Regulation. It is not known whether this will be a complicated procedure so that companies can enforce the guarantee under this law, because this will be governed by a regulation that is not yet in place, even though the President of the Government has promised to deal with important anti-crisis regulations in Parliament. This regulation is not yet available, and I hope that the Ministry of Finance will keep the words and Members of the Finance Committee informed of this regulation before the Government adopts it at its meeting. So we also expect that, therefore, both commissions and SID operating costs, which will be reduced to a minimum by an agent, that loans or guarantees or guarantees will be cheap for businesses to benefit from this, because they will be able to reprogram or hire new loans for new development programmes. These are still all issues that are not clear in strict conformity with this law, and we have therefore wanted and warned that we would also deal with a sub-legislative act that regulates the details at the same time on the committee. I must say that there are still some open dilemmas and problems with the implementation of this Regulation that I would like to draw attention to. The first refers to Article 7, which lays down the terms and conditions of the credit for which guarantees are issued. And one condition is that it puts the meaning and applicability of this Regulation on the head. This is that the amount of credit must not exceed the total annual amount of wages paid by the borrower for last year. This means that this Regulation is made for intensive, not for technological, capital-intensive employers. For example, a medium-sized enterprise with 100 employees with an annual salary of around EUR million can only apply for this scale. But they have these companies. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] multimillion-dollar short-term loans and development programmes, and this regulation will come to them very well. [[...]] There is also a lack of resources for the reprogramme. We have proposed that at least 50% of the reprogramme guarantees be 50 for new projects. It was accepted 80-20. So, through the amendments, we'll try to correct some of the inconsistencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law is part of a second package of measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis. As we see, the reduction in the flow of funds from abroad resulting from the global financial crisis and the failure of the international interbank market has created the need to release Slovenian banks' funds to finance the economy. The proposal makes it easier for companies to obtain liquid assets to finance investments and convertible assets. In addition, the initial legal solutions are built up by including the reprogramming of short-term loans into medium- or long-term or long-term loans between the purposes for which state-guaranteed loans can be granted. Due to the guarantee schemes or State guarantees in the Group, we are indeed assessing that banks will be more inclined to lend to companies. In spite of the guarantees provided to banks, the banking market has now stalled and businesses are almost unable to obtain loans. In the Group of Members, we are particularly pleased or welcome the solution by which we have achieved that companies in the class C rating scheme are also included in the guarantee scheme, as this has helped the economy more effectively in times of crisis. From the JAPES data on 31. 12. 2007 shows that there are 25,162 companies in the group of A and B companies and 11,950 companies in the group of C companies. Credit rating C includes companies that, according to the criterion of financial stability, have sound financial stability and fall under the business performance criterion as a category of good business performance. It is therefore a group of companies that, with appropriate State incentives, can still survive the financial crisis. Taking into account the fact that no other government measures are envisaged for such undertakings to facilitate the re-launching of the crisis, it is essential, in our view, that the guarantee scheme law also offers the possibility of obtaining funds for C-rated companies. As a result of the expansion of the volume of beneficiaries to obtain guarantees under this Act, the scope of the guarantee scheme has also increased to EUR 1.2 billion. However, we also welcome the common solution that, with amendments to the text of the draft law, for companies in grades A and B, we have been able to align them with those in grades A and B, because they clearly need the most assistance during the crisis. The government initially distinguished the creditors A and B of the credit rating class from the creditors of the C rating class, as the first envisaged a guarantee up to a maximum of 80% of all liabilities and for others up to 50%. It is therefore right that loans are equally directed to undertakings which have the greatest difficulty in obtaining loans due to the deteriorating economic situation. Let us note that this is the case for the most vulnerable companies, small and medium-sized enterprises. In the Group of Members, we are sure that the present bill will mitigate the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis and help improve the liquidity of the economy with a view to making it easier to raise funds on the Slovenian financial market.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let the guarantee scheme law not be a clearing area for what has begun and for inter-party measurement, but a training area for how to get money from the financial sector into the real sector. That's the only real purpose in my judgment. How successful we will be in this regard, and it will probably take some time to wait, since we do not have such rich experiences. This marriage, however, is certainly a long and difficult marriage. Compared to some developed countries, indeed, with a phase delay that is not known whether it is necessarily bad or perhaps something that has given us the opportunity to learn something from the experience of others and not make any mistakes that might happen to us. We will, of course, support this bill in the DeSUS Group. We are pleased, we can say, with the cooperation of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the process of producing a new text. We are pleased, however, that the whole range of good supplements has probably also been supported. The basic text is so perfect, but not only complete, we should probably also say that it has been improved. The point is that there is now less restriction on the acquisition of these guarantees and loans than was envisaged in the first text. It is a matter of showing a preference for the cost being as low as possible, for commissions to be acceptable and that they would not possibly be an obstacle to those who are required to do so. It has already been said, and it is probably worth noting that it is good that a group of companies with a C rating was included in this scheme and that the total amount of assets is divided by aliquota shares, and we hope that it will be used to help break this spasm in which the economy is located. It is also certainly good for companies to change their handicrafts strongly. What is good is also an increased quota to which it is possible to allocate these funds, or to allow a quota of wages for those involved in the project, and that a diction has been abandoned, which was originally planned to take account of the quota only to those who participated or serviced within certain production facilities. We are pleased that some of the frameworks that have been overturned have been released and that it is now possible to count on these funds both for new investments and for the continuation of the investments that have been started; to provide funds for both reprograms and revolving assets; to avoid strict selection, which has previously made it possible to think that maybe construction companies have been eliminated because they were not explicitly listed, like some other companies and industries. However, it is right to exclude those from the D rating class that would probably be too much of a risk to exclude those that are very often called tycoons, or those that could potentially be called "not yet tycoons", if they could run for redemption funds. Therefore, since we estimate that this bill already contained almost everything that was necessary to move the asset from the banking sector to the real one, and since this proposal has also been well supplemented by amendments from the committee, we will support it in the DeSUS Group. On the basis of the amendments that we have just received on the table, I can say that this text, once the amendments are adopted, will be further improved by us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u108	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. President! The Slovenian National Party estimates that the proposal for a law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, which is given for consideration by emergency procedure, is a very good law, absolutely necessary and thank God that we have it, so of course we will also support it. In the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased that this law - we hope so - will also enable the economy to have easier access to liquid assets, even though we know that it is temporary in nature to provide guarantees under this law. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party, it seems logical to us that they are included in this law and have the opportunity to obtain, of course, at a slightly higher commission, the companies we are talking about, so that the ratings A - that is, very firm companies, B ratings - are very good companies and C ratings - good companies. Logically, D and E, who are bad and very bad, can't be around here. At the same time, while the Slovenian National Party is very pleased to support this law, we hope that it will be implemented in a consistent and fair manner. We have also decided that we will operate informally through an organised service within the Slovenian National Party, but we will exercise control over the granting of guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of a package of development-oriented measures to mitigate the economic crisis, we have an important law ahead of us. The proposed law aims to enable companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain liquid assets to finance investments in investments and convertible assets. Economic companies that will benefit from credits for which guarantees will be granted under this Act shall be reported according to the JAPES data on 31 January 2016. 12. 2007 more than 80% of all companies established in the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the first-class insurance provided by this State guarantee, it is envisaged that banks will be more inclined to lend and that a so-called credit crunch resulting from the global financial crisis will also be generalised and that it is somehow impossible to account for. Banks participating in the guarantee scheme will have to bear part of the risks themselves. It is important that no guarantee can be given to finance the purchase of companies by administrations, nor are the guarantees to the financial company, banks, savings banks, insurance companies and pension companies. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are not most convinced that the total ban on the provision of guarantees for undertakings in difficulty in companies classified in lower grades and can be dealt with under the law on rescue and restructuring companies in difficulty, which is either the best or the right solution. We believe that some companies in difficulty, which are mostly export-oriented and at the same time strategically important for a particular region, could consider, limited of course, even through this law. I've got Mura in mind, but I think there might be another case. We also hope that the practice that has been applied to certain treatments or regulations when the Committee on Finance has had the opportunity to deliver opinions prior to the adoption of such regulations in the Government will also be applied in this case; that is, in the case of a regulation that will in fact be technically supportive of this law. We support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party because it is a good measure and hopefully it will bring the necessary start of lending by banks and the release of credit crunches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Saiovic has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much, President. One more nice greeting for everyone. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are pleased that the coalition has presented this important law, which will further improve the status in some companies, which are in difficulty because of the acute economic situation. We view it as an important proactive measure and therefore we fully support the creation of a specific anti-crisis guarantee scheme for businesses worth more than €1.2 billion, the main objective of which is to establish a medium-term credit market, which is currently a major problem because it does not work. We also believe that this is one of the most important anti-crisis measures so far, on which the fate of many companies and the fate of many employees depends. That is why we are so much more pleased with the formation of a consensus between all the parliamentary groups in the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the home working body. We also welcome the Government's knowledge that the effectiveness of such an anti-crisis measure requires the extension of the guarantee to companies of credit class C, because it is in this class that companies that would certainly need this aid most at this time. Of course, it is also true that probably non-payments in Class A and B are significantly lower than in Class C. In this regard, we also feel that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia an important part of the law governing state insurance for cases of cashing in guarantees. However, in a number of cases, public funds will have to be recovered from ownership and for a longer period of time, and these public costs will certainly be incomparably lower than they would have been if we did not put in place such a guarantee scheme at the moment. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it also seems important to highlight the legal principle of equal access to guarantees. All banks established in Slovenia are entitled to receive guarantees, but we point out the principle of compliance with the European Union State aid rules by setting up a maximum of 80% of the country's guarantee by charging the guarantee fee, the purpose of the use of the assets for reverse assets and also for investments, and by prohibiting the provision of guarantees for undertakings' obligations in difficulty. The principle of economics is also important. By collecting competitive offers from banks and, last but not least, from banks participating in the guarantee scheme, they will have to bear some of the risks themselves. Otherwise, taking credit risk is a normal component of banking transactions more significantly than the liquidity risk that our banks faced at the beginning of this crisis. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we see the main weakness of the law in the fact that the guarantee scheme is more or less targeted at companies from labour intensive activities, all other capital and technologically intensive companies, companies that create high added value on the market, and this scheme certainly will not help to obtain a sufficient amount of fresh money, but for all those companies that are still important to Slovenia, the possibility of acquiring them in another way. Now, with such stories, we are always at the forefront of the guarantee scheme, for example, the Mure case, which has been repeatedly exposed and I am sure, and this is also the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, that we should not, we do not, and we will not write off, but that other solutions must be found for them. This is not primarily a financial and economic aspect of the story, but also an important social aspect of the story in that area and the entire region in particular in order to avoid difficult social conditions. In the Liberal Democracy, however, we are aware that companies are anxious for financial reinforcements, so we support the bill, as well as the legislative amendments, and access to credit funds for businesses. We also expect the guarantee scheme to become operational as soon as possible. Here we appeal to the Ministry and the Minister to make sure that the promise given is made and that within 14 days it will indeed devote all its support and energy to the realization of this project, so that the measure becomes operational as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, co-workers with the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats supports the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and has also been supplemented by amendments on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Additional amendments have also been tabled today, which will make this guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia even more operational and allow all those economic operators that will benefit from securing their loans with State guarantee under this law to do so also successfully. And it would not have been because of previous credits that they had eventually rented for some other state aids, because they would have increased it with other loans. We are convinced that, by supplementing the basic government proposal, we have also been able to provide more favourable credit insurance for those companies and economic operators that are most needed in this form, both at the level of funds, conditions and at the cost of securing these loans. This is not an insignificant information; it is that the first proposal was very expensive, unattractive to borrowers, and now this is slightly more acceptable with the amendment of this law. We have in mind companies in group C, which are good companies, which are now the most vulnerable due to the financial and economic crisis. They have a good programme, they have a vision, they have a market, but because of the inability to pay both buyers and co-operators, they are now without the necessary investment and operating resources. In fact, this group of companies had to receive the most aid. Certainly, economic operators in Group A and B are also now in difficulty, but I believe and believe that the Group of Social Democrats needs to be directed towards those who need it most, have a good development agenda and a clear vision of how they will get out of this economic and financial crisis. However, I am very pleased that the Committee has also been told by the Ministry of Finance that they will also solve individual work organisations and economic operators in lower rating groups with good programmes, and that they will not come to these three credit rating groups because of various things. I am also pleased that, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have reached a relatively high consensus, which has also now been expressed in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, so that this law can actually come to life, allowing banks to better approve credits, and, of course, the governments that have agreed to take over part of the risk that might prove to be the payment of outstanding loans. Let us hope that this is small and that these state-guaranteed credits will be channelled towards development and thus ensure overall economic development and existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1a and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the examination of this Article 1a and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I guess not. I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and, firstly, the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss Article 8 and the first amendment of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? He does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 8 and on both amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Istok Podkrižnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm also glad that this proposal came to the table. This will be a measure that will help our economy. There's something I'd like to say about ratings. I think that the ratings themselves - most medium-sized and small-sized enterprises in Slovenia have actually been hit by this crisis in recent months, and this has occurred, I believe, because suppliers are extending or reducing these payment hands and customers themselves are prolonging them. We know that taxes, wages and other obligations that we know must remain here. As a result, these ratings have also deteriorated to these companies. I think these companies really need to be listened to. I am convinced that this law, if we go back to Article 7, to mention, in this first point, the second indent, when it mentions the amount of annual gross wages, it is said that it will not help these medium-sized enterprises, because these medium-sized enterprises invest intensively in development, are rapidly growing businesses and therefore have a major problem. And for these funds, I think they'll be too small for these companies. If we're looking at this, I think we're going to have to find another key here to really help these companies. These are the companies that will take development forward in Slovenia. Slovenia needs small and medium-sized enterprises. This, I think, is the point where we're going to get this thing to a better level, so these companies are going to be able to function normally. I wonder what the end of the year will be if these companies do not receive these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u118	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. That it is one of the measures aimed in the right direction, this broad support, which this guarantee scheme law was involved in on the home committee, and also shows support for the proposals that the opposition has put forward in the debate on the home committee, we have taken virtually all the decisions, the comments, the amendments we have adopted unanimously. It is only a pity that the three precious months are late, which is why we are also pleased that these final provisions have resulted in the shortening of the deadline proposed for the implementation of the regulation from 30 to 14 days, and we also believe that the Minister of Finance has assured that, according to the specificity of this regulation, which in some way interferes with the legislative material, this regulation will also have been previously checked by the National Assembly on the parent committee. Perhaps the only limit that can prove problematic, but we have had a broad debate about this and it has not been possible to eliminate it because of the European Union directives, is the limit that sets the amount of credit, and is linked to the volume of wages in companies, which leads to greater opportunities for access to these funds being made by labour intensive industries, but, as I say, unfortunately, this provision has not been avoided and with one common effort, I think, it has been written as it is for all. Now with regard to the amendment to Article 10. The current diction is that the individual loan, the principal, is from at least 100,000 to a maximum of 70 million euros. Theoretically, this means, given that this scheme is divided into three times 400 million, that some larger companies can exhaust this quota, which was probably not the purpose of this law. As I have had the opportunity to hear today, this amendment will receive the support we are proposing. This means that these funds are divided into the widest possible range of stakeholders, and I think this is the right thing to do, so we propose that this amount be set at a minimum of EUR 50 000 to a maximum of EUR 10 million. This does not limit anyone’s access to these funds. We allow all those in need of these funds to access these funds, and we are expanding the range of possibilities for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 10 and the amendment tabled. And I am putting into discussion Article 13 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why I'm concluding Pardon! [[...]] Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Blackach. Anybody else want some? Then I'll give you my word to Mr. Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The Committee also had a discussion on costs, and it was somehow adopted in previous articles that these costs of granting these loans had been reduced to a minimum allowable level. Thus, this last cost, which is now increasing, and I personally, in the Group of Members, also assess that what is now enshrined in the law is completely sufficient. Given the extent of this potential, we believe that the commission now provided for in the law is sufficient and that it does not need to be increased, as proposed by this amendment for, what, 250%. Although the percentage is small, from 0.02 to 0.05, but as a percentage, high jump. We believe that this is absolutely unnecessary, and we do not think that this amendment is good to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. This amendment came mainly because it was assessed with the SID bank which will conduct these procedures, that the price is 0.02% too low and will not cover. It is true that the first government proposal was 0.1% on the board. At that time, in the first amendment we proposed, it was 0.05, and later we reduced it in the debate itself, but it is true that we have also increased the utility of these loans from 5 years to 10 years and that some higher costs will arise here. Therefore, I propose that, as a percentage, there is quite a lot, and this is, of course, a relatively small amount to support this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Blackach, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u124	Yeah, it's not that small, petty, that amount. We are talking about a billion 200 million euros in potential, which means 0.02, 2.4 million euros and 0.05 million, as you suggest, 6 million euros. It's an essential difference. I firmly believe that the SID Bank will be able to handle this lower commission. I therefore propose that this amendment should not be accepted. I must say that on the committee, too, on the proposal of the chairman of the committee, Mr Rope, this number has been proposed, the one you are now amending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on Article 13 and the amendment tabled. We have thus concluded the debate on the amendments tabled. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 13.15. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the fourth session of the National Assembly, which we will resume in half an hour, as I said, at 13:15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u126	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be lit on the right side of the card. Before we move on to the voting process, I would like to inform you that, in the framework of the budget package of acts, we will first vote on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the annual management plan for immovable property of the State in a single value of more than EUR 300,000 for public administrations and for judicial authorities for 2009, the content of which is included in the Draft State Budget Balance. After the rebalancing vote, we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties, urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the Annual Plan on Real Estate Management of the State, worth more than EUR 300,000 per individual, for the authorities of the state administration and for the judicial authorities for 2009. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 4. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - consideration of the 2009 draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. I request applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the general part of the 2009 budget rebalancing, for a simple reason, because we are adopting a document that is completely out-of-date and based on the wrong assumptions of economic growth and in the general part there can be no basis for spending public funds below. The government had the opportunity to postpone the discussion for about a week, both on the financial home committee and on the plenary, and to prepare amendments to align the general part of the budget or the budget rebalancing with the new forecasts when new forecasts were announced to the government at the beginning of this week. That didn't happen. So he insists on something that's gone. This adds additional uncertainty. This rebalancing is excessively geared towards spending the country at all levels, with very clear behaviour that income will be significantly less than projected by the rebalancing. I agree with all those who need to strengthen consumption where it promotes the economy. However, all the consumption planned in this rebalancing is not such and should be thoroughly purified from this title and the Government has therefore had time but has not taken it. Another important issue is why we will not support that, in fact, after the new estimates of economic growth, we will be practically in debt to the part of the budget that is intended for some normal drive, not investments. According to the existing balance sheet, the volume of the debt and the volume of the deficit are expected to cover the volume of investments. According to a new assessment, since current revenues will be lower, for the same volume of investments and already ongoing expenditure in the budget, it will have to be cut after additional indebtedness, after additional deficits, and this is, of course, unacceptable in the given situations. We will discuss or decide something that is devastating for the future of taxpayers in this country. Of course, we cannot support such an approach in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u129	Social Democrats believe that the best anti-crisis policy is development policy. For this policy to be developmental, it must also be responsive. This budget balance is prepared on the basis of the well-known starting points so far. We know that we are living in a changing world, where we do not have any promises that economic trends will not get worse. We therefore expect that the Government will now approach the preparation of a new budget rebalancing that will make Slovenia even better able to face the challenges of time. We also support the balance because not only do we have to row together on this ship, it is also important to turn this ship in the right direction. By substantially increasing the resources for science and development, for the economy, as well as for investment and social transfers in this budget, we are convinced that we are directing Slovenia towards our common ideal, namely a society of knowledge, innovation, a society of high social inclusion and a dynamic economy. Social Democrats will therefore support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. So, I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian Democratic Party offered the coalition a hand. We wanted to participate in the development of Slovenia and to be partners in development. At the time of this talk, you refused our help, and the explanation was about this: we were able to face situations that were not so catastrophic at the time, without the help of the opposition. You have probably already found that this was a mistake, because the result of four months of rule is actually an out-of-date balance based on an estimated 0.6% of economic growth. Today, we know that economic growth is expected to be minus 4%. So, what can we conclude from this - that your measures were too slow and insufficient!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u132	Dear fellow Member Croat, this is no time for controversy! Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u133	I'm explaining why I won't support this rebalancing. This rebalancing is not an anti-crisis rebalance, but it is a continuation of system modernisation, as the Prime Minister of the government said yesterday. Modernisation, however, means reducing rights. I'm sorry, and that needs to be made clear. And I can't vote for a balance like that myself. I would have expected more, given that you do not need and do not want the help of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u135	If macroeconomic forecasts are kept or proved to be true, it is perfectly clear that we are accepting a document that is completely unrealistic and we know that today. Indisputably, the revenues projected to fall by around €200 million will be further reduced. On the other hand, there is a high probability that individual elements of expenditure will increase, and despite this awareness we accept something that will not experience its full realization. Nevertheless, the Government has not been prepared to see that there are non-realisation expenditure within the structure of this budget. Apparently, she was not prepared to learn this because she was leaving some room for manoeuvre to pay some compensation or something third. I am talking about the expenditure of €230 million 400 000, which is foreseen for subsidising reduced working time. So far, 40,000 employees have reached this target, amounting to EUR 14 million 400 000, which means that there is no likelihood that this expenditure will even be realised at EUR 30, 40 million. On the other hand, the Government maintains in the budget the expenditure of EUR 50 million for the reimbursement of investments in the telecommunications network, although the legal basis is very clear, Article 11 of the Telecommunications Act, which states that this cost is the expense of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Despite these facts, despite the clear legal basis, although we know that the forecasts that were a few months ago are no longer a fact and are not realistic, the proposal for a rebalancing remains unrealistic. It remains within such frameworks, which means that it will not be possible to achieve it. I'm afraid the submarine is swimming faster and faster to the bottom. It's only a matter of time before she falls for it or not. I am afraid that this depends on what measures the countries in our neighbourhood will take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u137	I won't support the balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you for that last sentence. That's what we expected. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. I will not support him either, for the reason that there is some very dangerous philosophy behind this rebalancing. We all know that in order to develop technology and to strengthen healthy cores in the economy, state resources need to be devoted to this. We have proposed a decommissioning of the economy in that segment of the economy, which is healthy enough to invest, that it has an idea of technological development for better quality, a greater added value. We have proposed a reduction or increase in the burden and exemption from the tax on investment funds. That was rejected. You are now in line with your philosophy of lifting - for example, only with the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, led by Mr Golobič, funds for 66 million. For technological development, even 117 percent. But these funds, gentlemen, to cover the economic burden in terms of investments, their investments, will be used to distribute to businesses at your discretion; and I am afraid of what this assessment will be. It is certainly a new option, a new development of opportunities for corruption, for corporateism and for all that we should fight against. It is sad that this budget, in fact, exploits the economic crisis and recession even for the purposes of political control of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Well, we're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 25. [[53 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 25 members.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for the budget rebalancing has been adopted. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to ask you to raise your head and look at the Members before putting to the vote if you would like to discuss it. Mr Grims raised his hand, at least two or three other Members would have discussed it and you did not allow it. I think that in this way to realize this session, as you imagined, I don't think it makes any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm really sorry. I looked at it at the end, but I didn't see any hands. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry there was a misunderstanding, but that wasn't intentional. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Draft Balance of Budgets. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. With regard to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I would like to point out that it relates only to the reduction of funds in the various sub-programmes within the framework of individual users, which is why this amendment reads in its entirety: "In the context of the first-mentioned user, this is the President of the Republic of Slovenia..." Therefore, to the budgetary user 1111 "President of the Republic of Slovenia and other users" we decide on the amendment, the first amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to the budgetary user President of the Republic and other users. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak. Please. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u143	And Renata, can't or how? [[..]] [[Laugh.]] In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment because it is an amendment that goes in the direction of what actually happened with lower forecasts of economic growth or economic downturn. [[..]] Savings, especially on some non-productive items, are more than necessary. I would like to draw your attention to another situation that we are facing now in the Republic of Slovenia, and we have never before. Slovenia has grown faster than the EU average by 4 percentage points in the last 10 years, or certainly in the last 4 years. According to recent forecasts in the government of this government, Slovenia will obviously fall faster than the EU average does. I think there's actually a lot of reasons for that. One of the key things is that the current government is not able to deal with the problems of reacting too late, inefficient and inadequately. Therefore, this amendment is an attempt only to look reality into the eyes a little bit and reduce some expenditure that is unnecessary spending. Therefore, I believe that the amendment was a bell, one of the first to know the necessary emergency measures that this government should have taken before. I think it's also the basic idea of this amendment. So don't be headless about spending over the possibility of creation, especially on those parts that are not targeted in the long term and whose spending will be more or less just a burden on the revenue side.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian People's Party or the Group of Members will, of course, support this amendment. She supported this because we believe that there are times when savings are needed in this country. Our assessment is that the budget or budget rebalancing for these times is extremely insecure, that the example set by the President of the Government and given by this house, namely the National Assembly, has been severely ignored or grossly ignored by budgetary consumers. I don't think that's right. Therefore, this amendment should only be a first step towards realizing that there is also a need to save on the public spending segment in these times. And I am sure, even as I said, if this amendment is not supported today, the government will come to this house very quickly with similar solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to user 1516 of the Nationality Office. We decide on the first amendment of the budget user Office for Nationality, sub-programme Support to National Communities. Explanation of voice. Please, Mr Göncz, National Community Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that in the case of the proposed three amendments, it is not a matter of where they should be at the forefront of some calculation, I will say, client interests. These are exclusively amendments which interfere with the basic activities of the national communities, Italy and Hungary - in both cases and in the third case of the Hungarian national community. In short, last year, an amount has already been provided, with which the basic activity of the national community has been rounded up within the framework of that whole, as we now propose by supplementing the amendment, because unfortunately this balance of this amount, which was provided last year, has not been achieved. As far as the bilingual supplement is concerned. This is a legal provision that has been in force since last year. And in the case of the third amendment it is an amendment which is indeed specific and is indeed necessary in terms of the basic activities of the national community. In short, if you vote against it, I think this is a contraction of the basic activities of the national programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Office of Nationality, a sub-programme to support nationalities communities. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the third amendment to the budgetary user of the Office of Nationality, the sub-programme Support to the Nationalities Communities. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u149	On behalf of the SLS Group, we will for the third time try to support the amendment relating to the Office of Nationality and try to do what we say is right, that other countries also do for us and therefore we walk abroad and fight for the rights of our nationalities in foreign countries. Let us consider this, a respected coalition, even for our nationalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But this time at this amendment, I would really like to appeal to everyone. In fact, it's the only newspaper in Hungarian. This newspaper was just before the collapse, and I think we need to find so much responsibility to prevent it and that the Hungarian minority will continue to have its newspaper. I think that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u153	Let me say that I voted for all these amendments because I do not think it is good to reduce the funds allocated through the Office for Nationality to the activities of these nationalities. I hear that they will be compensated anyway, that they will be replaced with other resources, but for the time being, what is certain is certain, and in the committee we have accepted these amendments in the belief that the words spoken by the Prime Minister recently will not in any case lead to a reduction of resources for both nationalities, but in this case, of course, encounter some strange disharmony. I will also vote in favour of the amendment in support of Hungarian nationality.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to user 1536, Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. We decide on the first amendment to the User Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Sub-programme Construction and Investment Maintenance of Local Roads and Public Routes. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 1. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to user 1537, Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. We decide on the first amendment to the user of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and around the world. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u155	With the proposed amendment, we propose to increase support for Slovenians both in place and in the world at EUR 250 000, as the funds are falling with the planned rebalancing. Funding for salaries and material costs of the Office is increasing and funds for constitutional obligations to support the indigenous Slovenian national community in exchange and funds for constitutional obligations to support the Slovenes around the world are being reduced. This, in our view, is unacceptable and confused with common sense. Instead of increasing support for the Slovenes, it is said that programmes are increasing administration, operating costs. Nor do we understand that this amendment is not supported by the Government, given the forecasts we have heard in the past, in view of the situation the Slovenians have been facing in the past and in view of the future activities that will be necessary to maintain the appropriate position of national communities abroad. A number of tasks still lie ahead of us in this area, and I do not think it is good that the activities that have been set in the past are halted or reduced. I do not think it is right to increase funds for the operation of an office and to reduce funds for the programmes that actually set up this office. It should be the other way around. Unfortunately, this is not the only case. In this rebalancing it is possible to find a number of similar cases when the funds for operation increase, for wages, for employees increase, for programme funds increase, and in this case for constitutional obligations to support the indigenous Slovenian national community in substitution and support for Slovenians around the world are decreasing. We suggest that this amendment be supported. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to user 2011, Ministry of Justice. We decide on the amendment of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Justice, the sub-programme on the administration of justice. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Why should this amendment be supported? Simply because I was already in the parliamentary issue of the complication caused by the Minister of Justice around wages at the National Reconciliation Study Centre, I have clearly pointed out that the coalition intends to do something about this centre, of course, in order to reduce the scope of this centre's operation. The scope of this centre is even more important at the time before us and at the time we faced it, and this is the time of discovery of postwar beatings. But we do know that this is exactly what the study center is doing. That is why we have proposed an increase in funds under this heading. The government, however, represents these funds on the so-called normative work programme of the Ministry of Justice. This means that he is taking, in some way or incurring, the funds provided for the study centre and putting these funds on a normative programme, from which we receive some strange laws. We'll deal with one tomorrow following an emergency procedure, then I'll talk about it, it'll be a law on lawyering. The means for a normative work programme at the justice ministry have increased so enormously that we suspect that this is a small business, which we will be able to talk about later. It is not normal for us to take where, after so many years, the state should invest resources to expose postwar incompetences and to disclose themselves, and to give where, in fact, it will serve, at least in my opinion, the legal-law lobby. And that's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u158	If I understand correctly, you will vote for the amendment. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user, the Ministry of Justice, the General Service sub-programme for judicial bodies. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the 2011 budget user, Ministry of Economy. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user, the Ministry of Economy, the sub-programme of International Cooperation and Participation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much, President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support this amendment because it is also a candidate. Why is he actually going? It is about helping or establishing, further establishing important infrastructure in countries that are the most promising economic partners of the Republic of Slovenia. It is more than clear that the State must establish a network of supporting institutions, which in particular helps small and medium-sized enterprises to break into these foreign markets. We are talking about the so-called economic representations of the Slovenian economy. Slovenia offers support to companies in many ways. One is through diplomatic and consular representations and economic councillors, who, of course, cannot cover, even because of the human resources constraints, the wide areas of certain countries. Therefore, these representations of the Slovenian economy are being established where the DKP does not adequately meet these expectations and the needs of the economy. Let me give you an example, in neighbouring Italy, where we have an embassy in Rome and we have an economic advisor there, JAPTI, a public agency for entrepreneurship, has set up a representative of the Slovenian economy in Milan. It is said in the northern part of Italy, with which we also have the most economic cooperation. There are still many such cases. The government has decided to save money in this area. She also wrote this in an explanation of the budget. That it will not develop support institutions to the extent envisaged by the programme adopted by the Government as well. We therefore propose that funds be increased at this point to provide appropriate support for exporters in their activities in these foreign markets. This is very important, especially during the period of economic crisis, because exports can only be encouraged in this way. Look at the other countries that have intensified their aggressive policies to conquer foreign markets, and we are saving here. For this reason, I believe that this amendment must be supported. I am aware that the implementation of these activities requires a lot of effort, organisationally speaking, to find the right people to find the right places to carry out these tasks. However, if it is not trying, if it is not going in this direction, then there is always an excuse that this money simply cannot be spent, that there is no absorption, so called. Therefore, I believe that support for the Slovenian economy abroad is needed through the establishment of the Slovenian economy’s representative offices and that it also requires money. One million euros, as difficult as this amendment is, is the minimum necessary to upgrade the budget of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Amendment 2111 will be supported in the Slovenian National Party because we consider it good because it contributes to the development of the Slovenian economy. The Slovenian National Party will support some amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Those we believe want to improve the budget. At the same time, of course, we expect that you will also support our two amendments, which we propose, in the same way in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment, the budgetary user of the Ministry of the Economy, the sub-programme of the Competitiveness Programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u163	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with this amendment, we propose to at least partially reduce the reduction in the competitiveness programme planned with a slightly less than €12 million rebalancing. Funds are being reduced by more than a third. We suggest that this reduction is made in such a way as to increase by EUR 5 million. It's a business center. It is 9 economic centres which are justified in the development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia until 2023. This is about encouraging the creation of new jobs in the whole of Slovenia with the support of these projects, for which European funds are primarily allocated, and thus directly affecting the more equitable development of the whole area, so regionalisation. This is one of the concrete measures that could, if fully implemented, lead to our country developing faster, more evenly and that people throughout the entire area have access to the same infrastructure facilities, especially to work, regardless of where they live. Unfortunately, this paradigm, which you also advocated six months ago when the mandate was taken up, is disrupted, evaluated, not only in this item, but in the overall budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u164	Mr. Chernač, the controversy is not allowed in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u165	Resources that are still important in order to contribute to Slovenia's more equitable development are being reduced in those programmes where European funds are involved. It is no wonder that in a global way the European Union funds are falling by EUR 13 million. It is no wonder that €52 million is planned to increase Slovenia's participation with a balance sheet. No wonder you're against this country developing evenly. For this reason, I propose that you change your mind on this and that you break this amendment. With the support of this amendment, at least part of this objective will be dissolved, which is somehow reflected in the overall budget balance. These are projects that are on the way, where project documentation is not only being prepared, but already being implemented. This is about supporting more technologically developed programmes, all of which is what Slovenia is expected to follow in the coming months and years. I therefore propose that you follow our example and that you support the amendment, which increases the funding of the Competitiveness Programme. We will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 2121, Office of Competition Protection. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition, the sub-programme Protection of Competition. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u167	This amendment is symbolic in nature or is an amendment to inform the Slovenian tycoon that the hunt for illegality, irregularity, in relation to concentrations in Slovenia, continues. The Office and the effectiveness of this Office, as well as the continuation of the procedures initiated, are highly dependent on the material conditions for the work of this Office. And I do not understand why funds are being cut in this area and why the Office is being denied effective, professional and legal work. Nothing helps if the President of the Government tells the director of the office, "if anyone tries to influence you, let me know, I do not allow pressure on independent work" if the funds and thus the conditions of the operation of this office are reversed. It is precisely this to feel at this symbolic level from this amendment or from the original proposal and, of course, the correction that this amendment wants to achieve. In fact, the Office for the Protection of Competition also encounters very forensic methods of detecting these concentrations in its work. We know that in his work he has a whole state apparatus, with an information officer on his forehead, but we believe that he needs to be provided with funds for services that he cannot perform on his own because of his staffing and, indeed, malnutrition, but we need to enable him to work and complete his initial affairs. This year, many of these matters remained, as many of them began to be done by the Office in 2008 and also in 2007. For this reason, I believe that, of course, it is also essential for a successful confrontation with the deviants we have seen in economic operators in the past. I am surprised that some offices or some authorities are significantly increasing their funds, especially those who are more or less successful and talk more or less, but their teeth are very warm or practically absent, such as the Anti-Corruption Commission. Here, when we talk about an office that has a lot of powers, which we have also given to the Office by law, it can impose huge sanctions, even banning votes in the Assembly, and the working conditions are being reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Look what we're talking about. We are talking about 420,000 euros that we intend to take away from this office. Of course, I will support our Group's amendment. Why? Also because of what's said in the government's explanation. See what has been written: "The resources provided for the Office for the Protection of Competition are sufficient to carry out the activities envisaged." etc., in 2009, "and are minimally reduced due to the wage policy measures agreed with the unions." This means that those few people should have so much lower wages due to the already agreed pay system with the unions. Of course that's not true. In fact, the second paragraph of the Government's explanation does not, in my opinion, belong here at all, because it speaks of the Register of Rules of the Republic of Slovenia, etc. It is managed by another institution, it is not necessary for the Office to do so, and that is why this office will receive EUR 420,000 less. It's not real. It is not real and is contrary to what the President of the Government also said in the speech, when he said that he had visited Mr Jani Sorsak and told him clearly that he would need anything for the successful work of this office to call him, but never again. That is why this amendment needs to be supported. As far as the government's explanation is concerned, I'm going to say, as young people would say, "Don't give me that." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u171	I will support this amendment. Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government, spoke on 21 November 2008 in the National Assembly when he presented the Government's basic actions, including on the independence of regulatory institutions and on his visit to Mr Sorsak, Director of the Office for Competition Protection. At that time he said, "He said," because the director of the office said, "to hear that the government will introduce austerity measures. And he told me that he was asking me, as Prime Minister of the Government, to provide the Ombudsman as an independent institution with the necessary money to obtain an opinion, to obtain the assistance of legal and other institutions, because this guardian is facing companies with a thorn in their heel that have lawyers who can pay very dearly. My promise was that he would get that money too." That's what Mr. Borut Pahor said. The government, in its opinion, says that this amendment is not necessary. The government proposes to reduce funds for the Office of Competition Protection. Mr Borut Pahor is President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to reapply. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Again, in this case, philosophy and the background of behaviour emerged during the economic crisis. This institution, which is supposed to prevent or detect economic crime and to really deal with Taiwanese businesses at the time of the ongoing transition, is being financed. Gentlemen, at the same time, we have enough money to raise funds for 700 000 to the Kosovo Commission, the Anti-Corruption Commission, to make it easier, even with some new methods, to trigger a new Depala village or Holmec or Patria affair and to eavesdrop on some journalists illegally. We've got plenty of resources there. Again, it has proved, as in the allocation of funds between individual ministries, to allocate funds to targeted people and to target certain people, according to what this government coalition plans to end the transition in this mandate. That is why, of course, I will support the amendment to at least a little resistance to this trend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u176	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u177	The reduction of funds on such items is unheard of. While you are saying that you are also fighting corruption and some other positive measures. After reading what Mr Minister said, I also recalled that Mr Sorsak said, "if anyone wants to bully you or bully you, please let me know." I think it's a bullying by the Office of Competition Protection and, personally, probably also by the director, the head of this office. I'm very surprised or not surprised. You confirm my belief that you break every word and that the rule of law, justice, the fight against corruption, that you care little. It is a matter of extreme bullying and a pity that Mrs. Kamnareva has left [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u178	Dear colleague Jerovšek, you must explain your voice, not comment on other decisions. You can't argue with the government anymore either, because he can't answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u179	I will support this amendment because it is absolutely necessary. I hope those who have some suspension from the coalition side will also support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to user 2312, Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the sub-programme Operation of Services and Public Institutions. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u181	We will support the amendment in the Slovenian People's Party and also ask for the support of others. It is the functioning of a public advisory service in the field of agriculture, which, if you have been careful, in contrast to all others, obviously also after the currently voted rebalancing of funds at a virtually equal level last year. Despite the fact that this work is the majority of the funds for wages and this deficit will occur. The Public Advisory Service is the one that, together with the Agency for Agricultural Markets, has first trained and prepared the area of agriculture in Slovenia to this level, so that Slovenia does not have a problem today in drawing these funds, with agricultural policy representing approximately one-third of the general European policy, Slovenia can respond to these calls and benefit from the funds. On the other hand, in these difficult times, where agriculture is increasingly coming in this crisis, this service needs money to prepare our agriculture for the challenges of this crisis, and that, even in the face of a drastic decline in domestic sales in both the milk and wine sectors, which is particularly happening recently, let us also train farms to start dealing with various alternative activities by diversifying their production, and this is what this agricultural advisory service is dedicated to, which we have also discussed with the Director of the Agricultural and Economics Chambers, that it will come into great difficulty this year, as some arrangements have not been implemented in the past year, and this crisis will be even more so in 2009. This amendment is supported and we also call on other Members and Members to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[33 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 48 members.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 2004/115, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. We decide on the first amendment to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Guido Kres, Emissary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is clear to me that this amendment or my amendment will not be adopted after the voting process. But you'd be surprised. Let me say that, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have proposed an amendment that would save a lot of money and thus indirectly allow for a transitional time reserve, or if you want to, save money, we explain to ourselves whether we are saving somewhere else, that we will spend elsewhere and thus encourage investment. This amendment of mine encourages investment in our Lithium area. This amendment of mine would also help to solve social distress. In our area, construction and construction are primarily related. If these investments were to stimulate better, faster dynamics, and therefore more resources, I am sure that we will be very helpful both in social distress and in the possibility of transitioning these companies operating in this area. Please support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the third amendment, the budgetary users of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll cut down on all three of the following amendments. The problem is that road infrastructure was very much destroyed in some municipalities at our end because of the construction of highways. These amendments are going to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the fourth amendment to the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the fifth amendment to the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the sixth user in the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 2511, Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the first amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, a sub-programme promoting efficient use of renewable energy sources. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The climate-energy package of directives adopted by the European Union last year shows the European Union's extremely aggressive fight against climate change. This conflict goes in two directions: the first is efficient use of energy and other renewable energy sources, bypassed by the reduction of emissions, in particular carbon dioxide. Therefore, in the previous mandate, the Government has also adopted an action plan for efficient energy use. And there has always been a problem with the implementation of these action plans, because there has never been enough money for this. Throughout the budget, the former government merely wanted to provide some more resources for energy efficiency and renewable resources programmes and to the maximum extent possible for the implementation of the programme adopted by the Government itself. However, the current government has not reformed the government's energy efficiency programme but has drastically reduced funds for these purposes. She said in advance that she did not intend to carry out this action programme in the current dynamics. This is another proof that it is working contrary to some plans, contrary to some strategy, some direction, let it be the course that the whole world has recognized, and especially Europe, which wants to lead in this area by example. Europe knows about the more efficient use of energy and renewable resources, that it cannot radically change the world's situation, but it can communicate and lead the other countries to do so. How, with respect, we will look at the face and how your ministers will walk around the European Union with these numbers, while we will look at this declarative awareness and commitment for these objectives, and on the other hand with symbolic means that do not follow this in any way. More than €13 million for these programmes is in the budget's balance sheet. With this amendment, supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want at least a little relief from the government's tsunami through programmes of renewable resources and efficient use. I wonder how you will meet the commitments made in the framework of the environmental directives negotiations. It's not the only thing. In the field of energy and new investment, too, the issue goes in a diametrically opposite direction. And you attribute the consequences to such policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. In the world, developments or trends are against the so-called low-carbon society. Data show that in an average developed country man is already causing emissions of 12 and a half tonnes of carbon dioxide per person per year. The objectives, the long-term objectives of the current known scientific discoveries, and some changes in society, industry and so on, show that it is possible to reduce emissions to three tonnes per person per year. The fact that there are insufficient resources for energy efficiency and for the introduction of alternative or renewable energy sources has also been pointed out at the end of this stage by NGOs. And it's quite a wide spectrum. They have justified the need for greater activity in this area. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the coming problems on the part of Brussels when another warning arrives, with perhaps a larger number of penalties than is the case here in the amendment. It also shows in this direction whether there are 5 million penalties, which is very much possible, more than 3 million 700, etc. A reminder from Brussels is very likely when it comes to non-reaction in this direction. This is precisely why I appeal to all those present to show that the amendment is to be supported, because at least, as my colleague has already said, it would alleviate the situation in the area where Slovenia may be dripping on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you. I ask again for an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u191	The area of efficient use and renewable energy is certainly one of the areas where resources should not be reduced. Not in such a way that they are practically halved. Not only because of the commitments made by this country, it has confirmed them in all the official documents and will now, by reducing them, violate them, but because we have not seen the energy crisis for a long time. We know what happened a year ago, and we know what might happen in the future. I think that Slovenia is at the point where it has to draw more radically on measures in this area. Yesterday, a fundamental misunderstanding of this area was demonstrated by the Director-General. It was expressed on his part that he feared that there were no projects and that this was the reason why they were shrinking. That's not the minister's concern. The minister is concerned that, within the available means, it is timely to ensure that those who can benefit from these funds can apply for appropriate projects or calls for proposals. Part two. The source from which these funds are provided, which we propose to increase, is a source that has no basis in existing legislation. The EUR 50 million provided for in the balance sheet does not have the basis in the applicable laws for the return of investments in the telecommunications network, since the Law on the return of investments in the telecommunications network provides that the obligation to return is the Slovenian Compensation Society and not the State budget. Payments are received, happening and all municipalities that receive these funds are received from the payer of the Slovenian Compensation Society and not from the Ministry of Finance or the State Budget. What am I trying to say? I would like to say that this area would be strengthened without reducing any other user. That's why I'm going to support this amendment, and I suggest you do it to the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u193	I will be happy to break this amendment myself, and I have already pointed out this incomprehensible change in the state budget or in the rebalancing. The rationale for this is very clear that the country where we are most exemplary in the European space, Germany, has also decided to find a way out and a challenge from the crisis through its active policy on energy efficiency and renewable resources. A lot of money will be invested in this particular area in Germany this year, which makes it all the more incomprehensible for me. As for the explanation that there are no projects and that there are no objects, according to my information, there is also a pattern in the policy of searching for these objects, because since last year we have been announced that we will be able to rebuild public buildings throughout Slovenia also at the municipal level, such as the necessary schools, which are energy-intensive, because they were built in the 1970s, many cultural homes, it is now my understanding that the Government is also in the spirit of some, I believe, centralistic manners, focusing these resources on projects owned by the State. I am afraid that next year, despite the fact that these are European funds, if we look for those who will be project promoters in this area, the Minister will sadly find out that there are no projects and that we will not spend the second year of these funds. Or maybe we can divert them to some kind of guarantee for some thermotechnologies.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you, President. I will support the amendments because, as I announced yesterday, investment in promoting efficient use and renewable energy is one of the key ways to overcome the crisis and recessional challenges we are in. Yesterday, I asked the Minister of the Environment specific questions. He has ensured that funds, if necessary to supplement programmes, will. I believe and hope it will be so, regardless of the outcome of today's vote. But, "just and case," just in case, I'm going to vote in favour of the amendment, because I think it's essentially a topic that we've also advocated in the coalition agreement, and it's a toy that the opposition can play with now. Of course, I want to be consistent with my predictions and with my conduct, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Renewable energy sources are very important to me, too, and CO2 reductions in general. I will therefore vote against this amendment because I think there are other ways to reduce CO2, for example, to speak a little less, to decide a little more effectively and we will produce a lot less CO2 ourselves in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We're voting. Peace in the hall. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 36. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, promoting efficient use and renewable energy. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm opening the application. You must now agree on who will explain it on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. It is essentially an identical amendment, so the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support it. This is an amendment to the Committee on Finance and monetary policy led by Mr Anton Rop. The only difference is that the source from which these funds are provided is another. In this case, too, it is a source from which no programme will be compromised. If this resource decreases, no programme will therefore be compromised. It is a matter of encouraging or subsidising part-time work, where we have often found the planned funding of €230 million 400 000 too high. This means that 640 000 employees in the Republic of Slovenia should apply the subsidy. There aren't so many of them in the economy. So far, 40,000 employees have been applying it, i.e. 14 million 400 000 euros or less than a tenth of the amount envisaged. That's why we're here. The main reason for support, however, is that it has been expressed on the Committee on Finance, I think very high support for this amendment. I think it is right to accept this because it allows for the implementation of certain obligations which have been signed by the Republic of Slovenia. It is also one of the concrete measures that can help to speed up the renovation of public buildings, inadequate kindergartens with asbestos roofs, inadequate school buildings, gymnasiums, schools with inadequate materials, one of the measures which can help to prove that Slovenia will actually prove that it wants to move into a low-carbon society, which almost all of us who are sitting in this Parliament in pre-election time. It is now that we act to show whether we have advocated this truly and have a serious purpose in defending it and deceiving the electorate. I think that this amendment needs to be supported, the amendment proposed by the Committee on Finance and monetary policy of this National Assembly, because it is one of the measures that will reduce the inadequate use of energy that we are witnessing not only in public buildings but in general. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this amendment and I propose that you support it for the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Effective energy use does not mean reducing energy consumption. Effective use of energy means doing the same or more with less energy. So you're improving your energy efficiency. Why am I saying this? Because I see that the current authority has an alternative energy efficiency programme in such a way that the failure to act in the event of a crisis will result in a significant decline in energy consumption. This is clearly a plan leading, according to those who do not support these amendments and propose such a reduction in these items, as a result, that it is unnecessary to develop some more technologically demanding solutions towards efficient energy use. Your Honor! It is true that energy consumption in Slovenia is declining and, unfortunately, inefficiency is increasing. And here is the concern and purpose of these amendments, which I support. I ask you to finally understand this once that if the Talum closes, it has nothing to do with more efficient use of energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u203	Exactly, if the Talum is closed, this has nothing to do with the efficient use of energy. However, if Talum were to be able to build a gas steam power plant for which an application has been submitted to the competent ministries for the issuing of the necessary permits for three years, then we could talk about more efficient use of energy. But I will vote against this amendment. Why? For the first time, because we have repeatedly heard the Government's explanation on the various working bodies that the reduction of these energy efficiency funds does not really mean a reduction in the implementation of already prepared projects and projects that are in the final stage of preparation and adoption. It is said not only that these funds are sufficient for all projects, but even if they were ready for the phase of the building permit or other necessary preparations for projects that would require additional funding, it is possible to provide additional funds for these purposes, as this is a matter of European funding under the 2007/2013 programme. However, the second thing I would say is that the source that is designated as the source to increase this amount is impossible. See what it says: to reduce the sub-programme to create new jobs and increase the flexibility of businesses by EUR 3 million 700 000. And you voted for that on this committee. I have to say I'm horrified, and I can't support such an amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u204	There can't be any controversy, colleague of Pecan's. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[32 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 43 members.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the sub-programme Improving the state of the environment, this is about the first amendment, the user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, namely the sub-programme Improving the state of the environment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[30 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 47 members.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment, the budgetary user Ministry of Environment and Space, the subprogramme, the improvement of the state of the environment. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. The proposal to reduce funds under item 4702 and the increase in the improvement of the environment justifies our proposal with an explanation, which is only a stone in the mosaic of what should have already been done. We are only proposing where we are already late, but the money provided for in the balance should provide a solution to the agony that has been dragging in the Mežíska Valley for a number of years, which has been contaminated with lead and thus endangers health for all inhabitants. The clearance of the Mishik Valley from lead has been carried out for too long, rehabilitation and under-care for residents, especially for children who are increasingly found to be exposed to pollution and are not expected to be improved almost immediately unless additional resources are provided. The age of 15 is absolutely too long, especially if we know that it is possible to reduce this time with little goodwill, only money needs to be diverted correctly for the purposes of a healthier environment. Of course, the story is the same in Idrija, where we face a similar situation and also here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u206	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u207	financing research in mercury activities and reducing the consequences of the burden on the environment with mercury. [[...]] All of this, however, will be successfully saved with more money that can be taken where it is least missed and given where it is vital. It is therefore right to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u208	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 72. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 72.]] We decide on the third amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Sub-programme Environmental Improvement. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u209	This is an amendment that takes measures to promote efficient use and renewable energy sources. This is the amendment of the Committee on the Environment and the space led by colleague Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u210	I ask that there be no controversy with colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament in explaining the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u211	It's not a controversy, I was just telling the facts. In the parliamentary group or I personally will support this amendment, however. I wonder, however, what is the meaning of this amendment, which provides the Dolenjska Waste Management Centre, the second phase, for a project which is completely abolished by the rebalancing, as it deletes 4 million 200 000 euros. I ask myself about the purpose of such an amendment, I ask myself about the actual intentions of the parliamentary committee in these projects, about the level, and above all about the sense that we are reducing already modest resources in the field of efficient use and renewable energy. But given that the amendment has been proposed by the rulings, there is no doubt that it would not have been accepted. That's why I'm gonna back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 7. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the fourth amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment of mine was essentially made for the same purpose as before. In particular, to accelerate the construction of these cleaning facilities in Lithuania and Zagor. This brings added value to this area, and this dynamic would finally enable all these people where these facilities are reserved today - these people on these plots cannot plan their development, whether agricultural or any other. That is why I also want this amendment to be adopted and the matter to be accelerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the fifth amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Milenko Ziherl on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I believe that this amendment shows support, mainly due to the pressing problem of the rehabilitation of the Mežiški valley, where there are major heavy metal poisonings presented in Dnevnik, a newspaper that we can somehow attribute to the coalition. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] The problem is more widely known, not just on the basis of one article. [[...]] The rehabilitation of mining in other places is more or less successful, it is in progress and we have somehow forgotten about the Meži valley. And just in the area of the Mishnah Valley, further efforts are needed to remedy the situation. Above all, I would like to point out that the item to be taken from, as already mentioned by my colleague, will be paid from the SOD and not from the budget. However, money may also be taken from other items that have an obvious sign of a vehicle park. That's why I'm asking you to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the sixth amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. An explanation for the vote on your behalf, Mr. Zvonko Chernač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u217	This amendment will also undoubtedly be supported, as it is supported or proposed by the Committee on the Environment and Space and I will support it myself. The only reason I stopped by was so that one of the rulers wouldn't get it wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much. However, I would really like to ask that you do not actually abuse the institutions of explanations of vote for controversy or addressing or ironic or cynical remarks to others in the Chamber. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 3. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the seventh amendment to the budget user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members - on its own behalf. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The point is that the center for - the Puconians are returning the funds, the ones we want to take through this rebalancing. I just don't get it. I also do not understand because, in fact, the country at the bottom of all the charts in Slovenia is being taken and, on the other hand, through other items, there is a significant increase in funding for projects in one other province, which is significantly more developed than the province of Prekmur. I am strongly protesting here, and I want these funds to come back.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the first amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme Planning, Water Protection and Management. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme Planning, Water Protection and Management. We're voting. Excuse me, self-explanation, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I don't know if it actually makes sense, but still. This is a solution to the pressing problem of the construction of high-water embankments on Mura. You know that they have been partially realized, but there are two very critical places left, and this amendment would in some way resolve this problem temporarily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u223	Given that the previous amendment has not been adopted and that this amendment represents at least a partial increase in funds in the same area or in the same sub-programme, I propose that you support it, of course, I will support it myself. I'm guessing the previous amendment bothered you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u224	Mr. Chernač, please don't judge how they think, vote others. Please tell me how you will vote and why, if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u225	May I? I don't do that, you keep putting some words in my mouth, I don't dare judge it. I also never went past what the rules of procedure set out, but I just remembered the ruling that they would not vote accidentally, but that the rules of procedure did not prevent me, and at the same time I said that this was also one of the reasons why the rulings would vote 'yes', that I would join this train or this submarine, and I would sail down with them. The Court of Auditors did not state what the Government explained that they were included in the balance sheet on the basis of the Court of Auditors’ opinion on investment obligations in the public telecommunications network and were planned in 2009. This is not what the Court of Auditors said in its opinion in the 2007 accounts, which it did not, because it was not able to do, because there is no legal basis for this. The Investment Recovery Act clearly provides that the bond is the SOD and not the State budget, not the Ministry of Finance. So there's no concern if this item, which is so fictitious and so fictitious, is reduced. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported and at least partially mitigate the radical reduction in infrastructure resources, which is still important for the lower Savinja Valley and the whole of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the budget user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the sub-programme on biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the first amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Sub-programme Special Programmes in Accidents. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Sub-programme Special Programmes in Accidents. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to the budget user 2523 Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme Planning and water protection and water management. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the sub-programme Conservation of Biodiversity and Protection of Natural Values. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u227	Of course I'll support this amendment. I regret that none of the government has been able to hear this, because today I find that there has been no one on the part of the Government, no minister, no secretary of state, no secretary of state, no minister for quite some time. I don't even hope to think that the President of the Government or his secretary-general would be sitting here by chance. Too bad, because they're going to miss this opportunity to hear this support for the redistributing amendment, you're not going to believe it, 90,000 euros. This is a very important amendment compared to the 200 million that the Government will transfer to the National Assembly without asking anything, from a fictional item over the course of the year for such and other compensations to those who speculated on independence and so on. But I will still support this amendment because the amendment will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Sub-programme of Conservation, Reconstruction and Construction of Monuments. In your own name? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Guido Kres, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This amendment is, however, about the provision of funds for the decent management of all open and hidden graves. We're talking about the pie. There's no need for big talk, but let's just support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the budget user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, a sub-programme on scholarships. It's the first amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. Excuse me. I'm sorry. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. The government is proposing a reduction in funding for the Republic's scholarships, which is unacceptable in our view, and we have tabled these amendments. At the meeting of the Committee, the State Secretary said that she was pleased that there were substantial amounts of funding allocated to the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, amounting to EUR 379 million. However, significantly more, so none of this will be available to students and students. Moreover, they will have 7 million euros less for scholarships. This is how we like to say that knowledge is the one in which we have to invest in young people, and we have set ourselves the goal of increasing scholarships by 10,000 additional scholarships. With the change, i.e. the reduction of funds on this item, we may barely be able to obtain the new 3,000 to 3,500 scholarships promised by the Secretary of State. The other thing that bothers us in this matter is that you have not aligned this with the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Obviously, this will be a permanent practice, since they did not give their consent to the new law on scholarships or novels. Does this mean that we will no longer take into account housing associations? Although in some areas we are doing this very intensively, for example in law enforcement. We propose that you support the amendment, as we propose that the funds be allocated or redeployed from the item partially subsidised full-time. For the information we have shows that this item is very poorly exploited. So it means that there will be quite a lot of resources left on this item and therefore there should not be a problem of redistribution to the second item. Apparently, you planned pretty badly here, and this item is heavily overblown, while in scholarships we will definitely need these funds if, as we say, we want to provide an additional 10,000 scholarships. We will support the amendment in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you. I will explain the second amendment in the scholarship sub-programme submitted by the Slovenian National Party. He wants to go with him. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u234	Comrade Barovic, we are now under the first amendment. I suggest you report back when we vote on the second amendment. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u235	Yeah, yeah, the same subroutine, I thought it was the same treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u236	No, no, we're going from amendment to amendment. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of voice in your own name. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to restate why I will vote against this solution proposed by the existing amendment. If we want to understand what is going on with scholarships, of course, we have to cut down a year ago when the previous position passed the law on scholarships, in which it reduced the possibility of obtaining scholarships. Since it changed the criteria for obtaining scholarships and started to take into account the child allowance, the remuneration for parenthood and did not at the same time raise the criteria for obtaining scholarships or censorship, of course a large proportion of the potential beneficiaries of scholarships fell. If we want to change things, we need to change the law. And this marriage is planned and will be accepted for the next school year. The applicants warned us that the existing funds are sufficient for 8,000 new scholarships, which will begin in the next school year, the censorship will be raised, and this will be strongly raised to allow new scholarships to be entered, while also allowing scholarships to be obtained to those special populations that have been eliminated in the previous system. That's what they say. It's about kids with special needs and stuff. It has also been said that we will consider a comprehensive reform of the scholarship system, which will be even more comprehensive and increase the funding for scholarships, in particular with the development component, that is to say through the provision of human resources scholarships. In short, let's not fool around about what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the grant sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you. The Slovenian National Party proposes that €1.550,000 be allocated to the sub-programme of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Despite the Government's explanation, which we have under this amendment, which we are now following, let us say that there are still many young people who, due to recession and God, do not give, the coming crisis, cannot go to school with the help of parents, but, however, we are reading the Government's explanation, and we are reading that 8,000 additional scholarships are still available by the end of this school year. We want rapid and effective development. This development can be achieved through science. Science is what students bring. They have bigger and better conditions for their work, they will bring more. That is why I am counting on students to be worth the EUR 1,550,000 to be taken into account by the Office of the Government for Religious Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 69. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 69.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the sub-programme Social Protection of the materially threatened. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you very much. To remind you and to ask for your support, and at the same time to explain that we will support this amendment, at least in our Group of Members. It is an amendment, difficult to say domestically, 63 million and several euros. At the same time, we propose to reduce relatively little funding for individual budget users. What's with the money? These funds are intended to provide pensioners with what they have been promised, and support is therefore needed for this amendment. Of course, they were promised much more. During the pre-election period and in the post-election period, they were promised 300 euros. As this was overlooked in the Treaty, in the Government's normative programme, because it was not prepared, we tabled the law ourselves, and this amendment and support for this amendment is solely linked to it. With the support of this amendment, we want to achieve that the law already in the procedure could enter into force this year. It means that pensioners would receive €150 twice in two meals. Amendment support is also needed because we have detected in coalition species a relatively unusual or diversion or ignorance of this problem. In fact, someone says we'll make sure of it, then the secretary of state says no. Yesterday's debate also showed me that some people don't know, don't know, I know, and we know that there are pensions under 500 euros in Slovenia. They exist to support these pensions and to give them this supplement - let me reiterate that there are 200,000 pensioners who have less than €400. And these people are meant for this. I am extremely pleased with yesterday's announcement by the DeSUS Group that it will support this. And I thank them very much for that support. But after this vote, I'm going to press F9 to check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain on their own behalf? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u243	I agree with this amendment, too. This amendment must be supported, for the pre-election promises were great, how they would have low pensions - and so on. At the present time, we must be aware that in the countryside, farmers have pensions of less than €200, not less than €300 or €500, as they say. In fact, I will closely monitor how the pensioner's party will vote, and then also put these things in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u245	With regard to this amendment, I would like to say that there is also a law in the parliamentary procedure that would allow for this payment in 2010, or if this amendment had been adopted, already this year, in two instalments, as you made a governing commitment at the time of the signing of the coalition treaty. The argument that this cannot be done is neither sustainable nor realistic. It was said that the situation did not allow the payment of the supplement to those with the lowest income or the lowest pensions. We are talking about 250,000 pensioners who do not receive more than 300, 400 and 500 euros a month's pension. This argument that it is not possible to do so does not hold back because, on the other hand, wages are enormously increasing in almost the entire public sector. Justification of why you are doing this, but you've done it yourself in the explanation of one of the amendments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed this amendment because we believe it is an amendment that will, on the one hand, relieve the social distress of many, a quarter of a million Slovenian citizens and citizens, and, on the other hand, allow increased spending if we can say so because we know that those with the lowest income will indisputably spend these funds here at home. Those who have such low pensions will not go as those who have 10,000 euros or more a month's reward, a million euros of retirement, will not travel abroad and fill the foreign economy, and this money will stay here, in the domestic economy, and help create new jobs. I will, of course, support this amendment and hope that it will receive support because it will not compromise any of the programmes put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u247	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, be very welcome to support. I just find it very difficult to prove that pensioners and pensioners living on 200, 300, 400 or 500 euros a month can normally spend a month. All those of you in this room, I'm sure you're aware of that. And there certainly is no one in this room who can survive with this money. It seems unreasonable, unacceptable and irresponsible to me that the Government does not support this amendment. At the same time, I am sure that today this coalition roller will also overtake this amendment, although I am sure most, although I know that the pensioners were the very ones who contributed greatly to today's composition of this coalition. And believe me, people won't forget that. The ones you take today to those who need it most, believe me, they'll remember that. And God forbid those same people should ever vote for those who are supposed to be their representatives in the National Assembly. I will be very happy to support this amendment once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Znidarsic. The explanations of vote shall be completed. Procedurally. Then, if you don't have a procedural procedure, please later, we'll re-apply to explain the vote on our own behalf. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I will personally support this amendment, because I know that there are many in Slovenia who have a pension of less than 200 euros; I said 200 euros. In short, I am also talking about farm pensions, and surely these people do not have a decent or decent life. And it's really hard for me to watch some people smile at me here. I don't think it's funny that this is a serious matter and it would be right to support this amendment and allow at least as many improvements to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Franc Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment for two reasons: for the first time in the principle of righteousness. We have dedicated or the Government has earmarked 230 million to solve the problem of the unemployed, which would eventually arise due to lack of production and procurement. Everything shows, as it has been said, that not a third of these funds will be used, that is to say, enough money will be left for these purposes to help the other group, which also dominates the group of people who are below the poverty threshold. And these are pensioners with the lowest pensions. I think that these people really need to be given at least a minimum in terms of a double contribution, so that they may be able to pay some of the bills before they get into even more trouble. That is why I think, gentlemen, they are resources and it is not right to neglect another group that is also falling below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. This is one of the most important amendments we accept in this rebalancing. In the first place, of course, we are helping those who have the lowest pensions in these times of crisis. First of all, not to say second, but also because parents who are retired are ultimately helping their children and grandchildren who are unemployed from day to day with these pensions. This is critical in already, in the places from which we come, from other places, not from the central Slovenian region. I believe the coalition will support this this time, because Minister Karl Erjavec has announced 1,000 euros in pensions. This will not happen with this amendment, because Matey Kožuh was new to the men before the elections. She explained: "Love us! You like DeSUS to establish such a state that it will no longer be necessary to adopt a law on a single pension allowance, but that it will be a blessing every month." If this amendment is not supported by the coalition, but also fine, because I expect, in principle, by DeSUS, that within an hour he will also get out of such an unorthodox government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? So I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u255	I will not support such demagogies. I wonder if you are ready to support the same dragan supplement for all young people after [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u256	My friend Yuri. [[...]] There's no controversy. Explain your voice. You have enough options to express your point of view Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you very much. That's what I'm interested in, because when I find out about this, I'll be able to make the best and best decision. But if we don't [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u258	You can't find out anymore, sir, because they can't argue anymore because the debate is over. [[...]] Just an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Then I'll ask myself. So I wonder on my own whether those who support such an amendment are willing to support the Dragan supplement at the same level for all young people under 30 who do not live with their parents. And let them be willing to support other amendments. It's de-ma-go-gi-ja! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I do not want big words, but I want to explain that it pays off and that I will be most pleased to support what may be making it impossible for some to despair over life, because they are disappointed because those most basic human values are being evaluated. I therefore also justify the fact that not only pensioners in Slovenian society, but also other spheres of the population, are in an impossible position. We have proposed this in order to really tackle what was the interest and desire of all of us who represent Slovenian citizens here in the National Assembly. I am sure that, with the support of this amendment, we do not do what is a long-term goal, but at least temporarily mitigate the worst, what people expect us to do to ensure a normal, decent life in Slovenian society. This is also why I have to support this, because the pensioners on the terrace of the home in the days before, when I gave them coffee, they gave me their money back and said, "We'll pay for it ourselves, and you in the National Assembly do something better for us." And that is why I will support this proposed amendment and at least morally satisfy the wishes of many pensioners and pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u263	Thank you. I certainly intend to support the amendment because it is helping a wide range of populations, which are particularly vulnerable in these times of economic crisis. It is worth noting that it is older people and that, during the economic crisis, they have significantly reduced their chances of making a smaller profit on the side, which may have been a way of solving their economic and social situation, when it went very well and in this way they have made it possible to survive with dignity. As the crisis has not yet reached its bottom, it shows poorly that it would be significantly more vulnerable to income and thus livelihoods than the half-millionth population of Slovenian pensioners. The amendment therefore shows support for at least a slight improvement in the situation of those most vulnerable groups within the pension species who do not have privileged pensions that do not have high pensions living in very difficult conditions. I support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u264	I'm asking you again. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'll support this amendment because I think it's not only good, it's urgent. We have all seen in the course of this budgetary debate that the situation is serious, that it may be even more difficult elsewhere, in other countries, but it is also becoming increasingly difficult for us, and there are more and more people who need help. And we're going in order who needs help right now. In the first place, it is certainly those who are losing jobs. We realized that every month after 8,000 people were on the road, they lost their jobs. These are solved by a second salary. The next, who certainly need help, are pensioners, especially those with the lowest pensions. As we can see, there are pensions of less than 400 euros and it is probably not necessary to be a prophet and to find that 400 euros is hard to spend and hard to patch up a month and a month. Such pensioners are found to be about 200,000. Survival is hard. On the other hand, and this seems extremely important to me, we have 200 million Euro reserves in this budget. And this pensioner's help is 63, so to speak, only one third. However, it is an item in the subsidy of working time. There is a fictitious item of EUR 200 million that will remain and with which the Government will certainly be free of charge. Why we blind ourselves and have an item that will not achieve its purpose and that will remain unused, but here we have people who need help. I think it's the amendment that can actually help and can hit that target group that needs help. Pensioners with less than 400 euros are certainly in need of such assistance. So once again, I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u267	I'll support this amendment myself. I think that this year such an amendment is all the more necessary and also to provide this supplement to those who receive the smallest benefits. At least in the countryside, inter-generational cooperation is still very good to help those with difficulties in this decision-making. Certainly, so far, many of the euro from the pension has also been poured into the pockets of young students, students. For this bond between old parents is very good among grandchildren, and with this you can be very calm of news that money will go into the right hands. As far as resources are concerned. I see that my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party have been asking me where I am going from 150 to 180 million money since Radovan told me on my counter. I also see that, given that the Government has a very large amount of resources in the reserve on the item for these additional jobs, it can do so peacefully in its redeployment and I hope that now that it has heard this for the fiftyth time, it will also take that into account. And also for the benefit of the young generation, colleagues - support this amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u268	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u269	Of course, I am pleased to support this amendment, because, as is known, we have introduced a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party that will allow our pensioners to pay this supplement, and this will also, of course, be the basis that you will not be able to reject this law in the coalition at that time with such a cheap excuse. Such a marriage or such an addition is more than necessary for our pensioners at that time. If we remember last year, when we also accepted these supplements, how much demagogies, how many seductions there were, the times for pensioners were significantly better, more optimistic than they are today. Many pensioners should be apprehensive about whether our real pensions will now begin to diminish. I assure everyone, with my conviction, that we will certainly not agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but obviously in the coalition, we can make such a decision. Therefore, I hope that you will now pursue those goals that are more than necessary for our pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will vote in favour of the amendment, because it is obvious that some are defending themselves from helping pensioners who are mostly living with their pensions. We never promised in the Slovenian National Party that they would receive high pensions, but we are always ready to help. This time, too, when the amendment to improve the status of pensioners is accepted. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, support the amendment, as I did on the Committee on Finance, on the labour force, and as I did with the warning that I am willing to do otherwise if the Government makes sure that those who are most at risk and most in need of assistance will also receive it. The result on the committee was 7 in favour, 7 in favour, and one did not vote. The result achieved in the government, however, is 3.5 - a linear one that I can call without the embarrassment of nebulosis, which does not speak of anything that is not worth 63 million and which is ignorant of up to 10,000 and up to 100,000 who are in need of help. I will do without regret today, as I said, what I think is right. But the reasons for this are as follows. First of all, the social ones most at risk are needed. Secondly, this was negotiated and recorded in the coalition agreement. That was the case, I know, because this is what the Prime Minister and I were negotiating when he wasn't, and when I wasn't in the coalition. And thirdly, this was agreed before I voted on my mother's working body. So changing overnight arrangements is not something that should be paid by those who are most at risk with the most vulnerable pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u274	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? Please, Mr. Tanko, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. I kind of have a problem with the fact that the coalition, especially the Social Democrats, now that they're in the government, has somehow turned from [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u276	My friend, the explanation for the voice. There's no need to comment on the coalition in any way, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u277	This amendment, tabled by our parliamentary group, will be supported mainly by the fact that you have found in the coalition the power to regulate the special status of the Secretary-General by law, since the Government increases salaries for officials of five payment classes at each meeting, while the 5 payment classes are as much on a monthly basis as we are prepared in the law to allow those who would have the greatest assistance, that is 300 euros. [[....]] And I don't think it's right for the Government to manage with such ease those supplements that they don't need, that they can survive with the 40th grade and raise them by 5 pay grade, that for 300 euros of wages, and in the case of the most vulnerable people, this social note is completely lost. We have stated in the Constitution that Slovenia is a social and legal state, with this amendment we are trying to take a step towards a better social state. I am very surprised that the majority of the coalition, although even on behalf, in the title of the party, this social note does not support this social emphasis. And as for the challenge, how we will act if a marriage is tabled. You know, we didn't object in the National Assembly, either, when two members of the coalition arranged a joint household in the same Chamber, in the same Member's apartment, or perhaps we won't object to any other social solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u278	Thank you very much. This concludes the explanation of vote. Procedural mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you very much. We do not blind ourselves to the fact that the country is in a difficult economic crisis, and we are aware that it is not possible to pay 63 million - half now, half later. We have always defended the social situation of the poor in this country, especially the pensioners and last year we did not oppose a single supplement, although it did not intend to alleviate their social situation, but it was intended for elections. I must say that it would have been easier to get along without a single allowance and pay more easily this year when the situation and situation of the worse ones are. But that's how it happened. We're here today either to make a coalition deal or not. I am still in favour of implementing it, and I am sure that the Government will bring this law into its normative part of the programme this year and that we will, in any other way, continue to be in this year's financial capacity, some have forgotten to say that the agreement on payment under the financial possibility that we will pay this year's one-off allowance to the poorest, the most social assistance needed in this country, including the pensioners. However, since we still need some information right now, for a final reflection on how the six other Members of our Group will vote, I would ask for a 30-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you very much. According to the rules of procedure, I'm taking a break. The meeting will continue at 16.10. The meeting shall continue at 4.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u281	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We're continuing our session. The leader of the DeSUS Mag Group wants it. Franc Žnidaršič give a comment or an opinion? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. During this meeting, our Group received a message from the Government that a single-added law will also be included in the normative part of the Government's 2009 work programme. It is clear, however, that we cannot lift the proposed budget balance today, so six members of our parliamentary group will vote against an amendment that aims to undermine [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u283	Peace in the hall! Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u284	the proposed budget balance. [[...]] Indeed, we believe that this budget balance is only possible at this point in time as it is proposed. When things change, I also believe that we will correct or correct the moment and then adjust the actual situation to a new budget correction and then provide the necessary means to pay the one-off allowance in a manner and to the extent that this is objectively possible in these unfavourable times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u285	Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u286	Yes, please. Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Really Group, please, according to the information we have received, for a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I'm doing a five-minute vacation. The meeting will continue at 4.20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u288	I ask Mr. Cvetko Zalokar Orazem if he wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to user 3311, Ministry of Education and Sport. We decide on the amendment to the budget user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, sub-programme Sports Programmes. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the first amendment to the budget user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, sub-programme Primary Education. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! These amendments and the means envisaged are intended for the restoration of the school in Libelić. Libeliče is not a typical Slovenian place, but is a sacred place of Slovenian patriotism. And in fact, it's a shame for all of us if this place isn't properly regulated. I proposed years ago that this should be a separate municipality to make it an exhibition window for Slovenia, because in 1922 the Libelicans rejoined their village again after two years of effort. Unfortunately, at the 80th anniversary of this big event, when the government was unoriented, it did not celebrate this great event, but rather a municipal celebration. I hope the attitude towards patriotism in this option of yours has changed at this time. For it will be difficult to excuse the failure of children to have a suitable school and a suitable facility in this place. But I'm afraid, because yesterday I found out that this coalition didn't support the national celebration of the year of Slomšk and that not really, though [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The Committee on Culture has adopted everything unanimously and does not implement it. [[...]] And this is a disastrous attitude towards Slovenian patriotism, to patriotism and I call on you, colleagues and colleagues, to show, through the support of this amendment, that you are aware of what the Libelicans have done in the past for the Slovenian state and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u290	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, sub-programme Primary Education. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr Jerovšek? Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u291	Thank you very much. This amendment is intended for additional funds for the construction of a gym in the municipality of Makola, in the town of Makola, which is a very underdeveloped area in Haloza. Last year, we managed to allocate funds to a different government so that this investment could start. Of course, the entire financial structure is not guaranteed, and unfortunately it seems that if this is not voted out, children in Makol, in an undeveloped place without a gym, will still be sentenced to be second-rate children. I hope that you will support this amendment, because the president of the Committee on Education and Sport has been, I think a month ago, there and she promised that these funds would be provided. Last Friday there was also Minister for Education, Mr Luksic, and he said he had also promised. So, I do not expect duality, I expect coalition parties to be as credible and that this amendment and this gym will allow these people in the undeveloped Makols to build that these places and these children will not be permanently second-rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Moving to user 3511, Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment to the user of the Ministry of Culture, the sub-programme for the preservation of cultural heritage, this is the first amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment to the budget user Ministry of Culture, sub-programme Conservation of Cultural Heritage. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the budget user of the Ministry of Culture, the sub-programme Media and Audiovisual Culture. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Draft Budget as a whole. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Although you volunteered too late, you still have the opportunity to on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, mag. Vizjak, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u293	On behalf [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u294	On behalf of the delegation, I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u295	Then I'd suggest they fix my time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u296	Fix time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President of Parliament. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support a specific part of the budget or the balance of the budget, just as we did not support the general part of the balance. In fact, a particular part reflects a lack of awareness of the situation in which the State is located. Moreover, even where they could go the other way and cut into spending a little bit more, some hidden sources of funding for the future, such as the already mentioned share of resources for subsidisation in addition to working time, and 50 million for investment in the public telecommunications network, at least those amounts could be allocated to some form of fulfilment of the coalition contract and the commitments you made before the elections. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot remain indifferent to such deceitfulness and, last but not least, cynicism. In fact, this budget rebalancing is in itself nonsense. The reason for this is because it will also cause difficulties in the composition of the 2009 balance sheet. In fact, some will start spending these items, which are now legal, those close to the trough and close to government customers, will also receive faster this money, and the majority will unfortunately not, and most of the balance balance will then be deleted. And even though they have the same starting points today, certain items will be forced, but certain no, but those who will be in favour of the coalition will be forced. I would like to stress that this will further affect some opaque and also the lack of consistency of public spending. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party we cannot follow and do not want to participate in such non-planning. The coalition has seen a great deal of a lack of planning by the previous government, especially in European funds, and this is now reflected in an exposed form within this balance. We all know today that what is in the balance today will not be spent because it is not allowed, because there will not be so much revenue for this, and yet you will probably agree, unlike us, to raise your hand for a special part of the balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We're voting. Breakup. I'm giving them a chance to explain their voice. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Please. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u299	Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to back this up on my own for more than one reason. One of these is certainly not accepted before the amendment, which we have warned about both in the opposition and in the coalition. I thought it was right in the debate here in the State Assembly by DeSUS, when he made it clear that the time had come when they would not give up and would not give up. I'm afraid I can't believe what happened, that in a few minutes they went over theirs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u300	Dear colleague Puksic, the explanation for the vote of a special part of the budget, I have given you my word for this, not for commenting on the decisions of another parliamentary group. If you don't continue this way, I'll take your word for it. This is the first reminder, in accordance with Article 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u301	Mr President, perhaps at some point someone should take the floor, even when someone speaks abusively, when he speaks profligately and even by means of methods of hostile speech, he attacks fellow Members. In this case, I am talking about why I will not vote. In fact, I simply cannot believe that we have also cut those who have today, as you said before, 300, 400, 200 euros and so on, as well as less, in fact 170 euros in pension. And when we talked about this problem, that these old parents are also paying for those bills that are now virtually unattainable for some parents, it is not possible to pay them where there are 15, 16 euros a month to pay for lunch for children in schools. In short, I can't believe there's so much in the National Assembly in the last five months. Before the elections it was promised, you elect us, we'll do anything for you. But today you can see, you've been elected, and you're going to strangle them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u303	Thank you. I myself will not support a specific part of the budget, for several reasons. Certainly the most important reason is that many of the good proposals have fallen, that there are no funds where even NGOs and professional institutions have warned us. In addition to what has been said, verbal communication, there have been non-verbal communications, we have witnessed an emergency call, the voice of the people or the work of the people, and I would be very happy if we received at least half of the items. However, it is still shocking to hear one of the previous votes when we did not even get the necessary funds for the pensioners. That's why, as I said, I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u305	Dear Mr. President! So, I will not support the budget rebalancing because I am sure that the budget balance is not development-oriented, does not promote economic development, does not promote technological development and does not build on realistic assumptions. And secondly, I will not support him because no amendment of the opposition itself has been adopted. That's unacceptable, irresponsible. I am convinced that at least the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in order to resolve the social problem of pensioners and pensioners could be supported and not supported. This is the President. This is incomprehensible. And I don't understand this coalition where DeSUS is also a party that should represent the interests of pensioners. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u306	Mr Pojbič, for the first time, we are talking about the last part of the proposal for a rebalancing, not the full balance of the budget. I ask you to explain your vote, but not to explain what you think about how other parties vote in this House. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u307	Mr President, I have said what I think I am behind this, I will insist on this, I will rebalance the budget, at least as it was prepared, and I will not support this particular work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u309	I must say, I am quite sad that I will not be able to support the budget's rebalancing, because as many times in recent years I have called on the saints to support my proposed budget. But we cannot support it because it is primarily a budget that certainly does not reflect the current gravity of the situation we are in. Nor was the amendment, which could otherwise be amended by someone else, which we prepared in the People’s Party and warned us where to start saving, accepted. In fact, no amendment of the opposition has been adopted, and this is a very bad signal for me to work in this National Assembly, even for the future, at a time when the situation in Slovenia will certainly be difficult and a number of difficult decisions should be taken together. I'm sorry I have to vote against it. Nevertheless, I would like the Government to exercise this budget very responsibly and that, in the part where consumption is now open to a great deal, it will be somewhat held back so that it will not have much more difficulty in adopting the balance that you will bring to the National Assembly sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u310	Thank you. Since there are still requests for explanations of vote, please apply. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u311	I cannot support this act because it is a reflection of that policy of ideological exclusion of the government coalition, which initially rejected all the timely proposals for laws that could avoid recession; then it did not agree to any coordination on this act and today rejected everything by the opposition of the proposed amendment. I cannot vote in favour of this act, because I would also support the transfer policy, which on the one hand speaks of a common boat, and on the other hand wants to row only with left oars, which is why this boat is still turning on and is not going anywhere. I cannot support this act, because the sum of that ignorance and incompetence of the government coalition, which in just a few months our boat, which has rushed at a speed plus 7% economic development, has turned into a red submarine, which is now 4% minus below the level; and I cannot vote in favour of this act, because the reflection of that policy of the windstorm, which does not even recognise that the starting point at the takeover of power was better than any previous coalition, because it was a positive balance sheet result before you and I will believe that you will change this image and then I will be able to vote in favour of your next budget act when you also agree to negotiate a reduction in value added tax and, above all, agree that the issues of the so-called deleted offices are in constitutional law. I will also make a procedural proposal to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u312	Mr. Grimes. You have completely missed the purpose of substantiating the vote. You're clear through, in other coordinates. Please finish if you intend to continue like this. You're done! Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The balance of the state budget is certainly one of the most important documents and it would be right to accept it with the greatest possible consensus and rule I always support budgets, even though I am not satisfied with it. But for this proposal for a rebalancing, I must say that I am more than disappointed, because such a proposal as it is, the government and the coalition themselves note that you will change it as soon as possible. It means that this act is completely irrelevant at the moment - or even when you accept it. This act is not development-oriented. However, you have shown your willingness to cooperate by not accepting or confirming any amendment tabled by the opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party. They were good, constructive proposals, they had no impact on the other budget users, but you rejected them by your majority, of course. In particular, I am concerned that you did not support an amendment that would allow the adoption of a law or law that is under consideration when we are able to pay our pensioners the supplements they urgently need. This law has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, rather than by the Government, despite its promises. I believe that there will be no support in the coalition for this law, which means that you will be misdirected again, as always. Therefore, as I have said, I will not accept this law or this draft budget and support and hope that you will prepare the next one that will reflect the real picture in Slovenia somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u314	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I will not support this particular part of the budget's rebalancing because I have been disturbed by one superiority, in fact by an arrogant coalition. Of course, I did not expect the support of our amendments, although the positive would be surprised if any were supported. But that the coalition did not support any of the three amendments of the Commission for National Communities, not even that amendment, which proposed €50,000 for the operation of the media or the press, which is actually a great deal of arrogance and self-sufficiency, if we have money, we don't need you and "fuck" you with your suggestions. Even those who are actually non-political, which includes some dignity and last but not least the communication from Slovenia to other countries, neighbouring countries and which cover some respect for national communities as important categories in the Republic of Slovenia. This, this amendment, especially this third amendment, which speaks of 50,000 euros, is symbolic of the functioning of this coalition and of arrogance and demonstration of power. This is bad, I do not remember that the coalition would ever reject all the amendments of the opposition, especially the amendments proposed by the national communities, and therefore, of course, I will vote against the specific work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u317	Thank you very much. I cannot support this particular part of the budget because the coalition voted and acted scandalously in the vote on the amendments. In fact, you have opened proposals that will support and increase the social distress of our people; you have not supported proposals, for example, for the Office for the Protection of Competition, with which the Office would successfully fight the tycoons but support the tycoons, you are working to make one more poor and the other even richer. You also made a clear point in the case of the reconstruction of the school in Libelič, that your patriotism is the Spanish village, that you are not prepared to support it. And you've also shown that you divide people and children into first-class and second-class children. You are considered to be representatives of first-class citizens, but you despise second-class citizens, in your opinion. Unfortunately, there has been a phenomenon of duality, ignorance and neglect of people and children as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u319	See, I propose in particular that the College of the President of the National Assembly examine the possibility that, in addition to the usual publication of the outcome of the vote on the National Assembly's website, the outcome of the vote was rejected and that the possibility of the lowest pensions would also be attached in writing to the payment of the following pensions. This would be a major contribution to political culture in Slovenia, because any pensioner could see what electoral fraud was really the last election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u320	Your proposal represents a clear abuse of procedural rules and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as a whole. We're voting. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'm asking you to sign up. The opposition can have more than one word. First there will be an explanation for the vote, and then you will have a chance of a procedural word. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u321	Of course, this balance cannot be supported. It cannot be supported for several reasons. This rebalancing cannot be supported because it means the fraud of voters, it means the breach of pre-election promises, it means the breach of a permissive commitment. This rebalancing means a broken promise made publicly in the National Assembly by the President of the Government on 21.11. concerning the Office for the Protection of Competition, where additional resources have been promised to combat distorted acts. This rebalancing cannot be supported because it is not based on the applicable legislation. On the one hand, this rebalancing provides for expenditure that will not happen and thus allows the Government to redistribute more than EUR 200 million of its own will and wishes. On the other hand, this rebalancing cannot be supported because there are misestimated inflows which will not be realised at the level envisaged. This rebalancing cannot be supported because, on the one hand, it substantially increases the material costs and costs of the operation of the country, and therefore the use, on the other hand, makes it impossible for the resources to function normally for those in these situations in which we are sinking more and more each day. This balance, respected colleague and colleague, cannot also be supported because your Prime Minister is very angry with you and himself today, because by accepting or rejecting any of the opposition amendments, there is a definitive division between yours and ours. On your part, none of the amendments proposed by the opposition have been adopted, even though they have been substantiated, justified, useful both for the state and for citizens and for your ruling coalition. I won't support the balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Rebalance is the result of hard work, on the one hand of the Government and all those who prepared it, and on the other hand of the National Assembly. The balance with the changes adopted, and with this result, expresses maturity and also expresses honesty and awareness that this is not the last balance in 2009, because we have an economic situation for which we have always been fair enough not to blame the previous government, so I expect that the current opposition will not blame this government on itself. I will also support the balance because all coalition partners have shown a lot of wisdom and maturity and the awareness that at this point there is no way to implement what is necessary - and this is intergenerational solidarity - and that this will be settled this year. I will join this effort myself and I will vote in favour because those who know audiovisual culture well know that the Red Submarine in the movie Red October eventually survives, and those who wanted to sink the Red Submarine are destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Chairman. The correction of the bad budget is a good correction, so I will be happy to support it. A correction that spends close to €300 million on social transfers, which, of course, is also due to the global global crisis, but sometimes, when we had a flow of honey and milk, about a year and a half ago, of course for these times, we have not saved unfortunately anything and therefore an even greater fund for social transfers. Mr Vizjak wishes to speak, Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u326	He's not getting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u327	Thank you very much. It's simple. I support the balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u328	Thank you very much. We're voting. Procedural, please. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President and the President. Today, you have repeatedly violated the rules of procedure when voting and when discussing amendments, as well as the general part of the budget or the budget rebalancing. You did not allow Members to sign up to explain your voice, you missed it, you were warned about it. And also now that I have asked for a procedural proposal, you have violated Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that a Member who wishes to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure has a procedural question that the President should immediately request it. And you didn't give me your word right away or when I asked for it, and even now that you've done all the work, you've forgotten that I asked for a procedural question. I suggest that if you wish to conduct this meeting normally, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, prepared by Mr Anderlič, the first-signed, to take this book into your hand and slowly, you read and predict things in peace, which are on the order of the day. And before every prediction you make when you move on to a new part, that is to say by explaining to the vote, see if there is anyone else who would like to speak and explain his voice. It was broken several times today, and I've already warned you about it once. I suggest that you stick to the Rules of Procedure and that Members of Parliament too, whether this topic suits you or not, whether you like the content or not, let us give our opinion. You were a member of the opposition yourself. Look at your magnetograms, your voice explanations, and you'll see how you used the rules of procedure. You were also the Minister of the Information Society, and you might also know how things work out and you don't do that. I ask you to follow the rules of procedure and the established house rules in the National Assembly. And now I'm predicting that I'm going to volunteer to explain my voice in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u330	Dear Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, what you have now wanted to say in the form of a procedural proposal is a serious breach of the rules of procedure. You wanted to explain your voice. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Mr. Jože Tanko, explanation of voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u331	Thank you for your word and for your kindness, so I've also been given the opportunity to explain. There is a gentleman known from half past history, "Mr. Nenet." I'm sure all those of you sitting next to me will remember that very well. This nickname was given because it was always against, it was former Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, Mr Andrej Gromiko. In the way that you have voted on the amendments tabled, I can compare you to "Mr. Nenet". Everything we have proposed has been rejected. I think it's an excess of arrogance, an excess of use and abuse of power. Neither of the amendments we have proposed has affected the structure of the budget. Everything was coordinated and balanced. As a result, nothing on the expenditure side would change for one cent in terms of increased consumption or higher deficits. Even when we proposed an amendment to resolve the coalition treaty, after consulting the Council, you strongly undermined this proposal. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u332	Dear colleague Tanko, you're adamant, you don't explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u333	I must say that I will not undermine this part of the budget also because you have always found enough time and resources to provide funds for widowed persons by military pensioners who do not need these funds and do not fall within the category of socially disadvantaged persons, to increase funds and advancements, extraordinary advancements, in the offices of the ministries for five payment classes, that is more than 300 euros after you have determined it, and that you have tried to save Mr Cwickle by special law. [[...]] I think it gives me conditions to say that this change of budget is grotesque, farce, burka or whatever you call it. That's why I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u334	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 27. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the specific part of the proposal for the budget rebalancing has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 24. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. I ask the representative of the Government and the chairman of the committee whether the balance of the state budget in terms of revenue and expenditure is harmonised. Please. Mrs. Helena Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u335	Thank you very much. In the light of the amendments adopted, the general and specific parts of the budget are not harmonised, so I propose that we prepare a harmonisation amendment to be considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u336	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion just heard, I find that the balance of the state budget is not harmonised. Within half an hour, the government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the national budget's balance and then be addressed by its mother's working body. That's why I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly for an hour. We'll continue at exactly eighteen o'clock. However, I would like to remind you, or inform you of the members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that the meeting of this Committee is held at 5.30 p.m. in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item. So we continue at eighteen o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u337	the working body. [[...]] So they don't end up sooner than 6:30. That's why I'm predicting we'll continue our session at 6:30. I'm asking for optimism.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u338	I'm sorry, but I'm informed from the working body of the financial committee that they haven't started their work yet because they haven't got a revised amendment and a few spares, which is probably better if we don't take it every ten minutes. [[...]] I'd be here predicting a continuation at nine o'clock. Don't get mad at me - even if it helps.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u339	We continue on the 4th item of the agenda, this is the debate and vote on the Government's amendment to harmonise the 2009 state budget balance. You have received an additional report to the 2009 draft budget rebalancing as well as a proposal for a budget rebalancing with the harmonisation amendment. Does the representative of the government or Mr. Minister want a word? Mrs. Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u340	Thank you very much. In the light of the amendments voted, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment relating to the General Budget and the Development Programme Plan. This harmonisation amendment has also been endorsed by the Committee on Finance, and in this way all three parts of the budget are coordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Does the mother's working body want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the text to representatives of the parliamentary groups who have the right, of course if they so wish, to explain their position on the harmonisation amendment within five minutes. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the balance of the state budget. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2009 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 17. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the 2009 Rebalance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. On the basis of paragraph 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a further proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Finance Committee and the monetary policy of mags. Mr Anton Ropa, Member of Zvonk Černač of the SDS and Mr Willi Trophynik of Zares, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the basis of the decisions taken by the National Assembly, prepare the final text of the 2009 Balance of Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Please let us vote on this proposal. I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're going to break five. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 We continue with the second reading and the debate and decision on the amendments that have been tabled in the draft law. The amendments are submitted to Articles 1, 11, 14, 15, 21 and 25 and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There were 68 votes in favour and 68 in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to article 11 of the law. It's a debate. Explanation of voice. I give time to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. They've been reported to be the Lord of Mags. Andrej Vizjak, I give you my word. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u342	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. With this amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u343	On behalf of the SDS Group, there would be no doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u344	That's right. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to announce that the Group of Members will not support this amendment, because in fact it is unusual that some members of the Coalition initially supported the reduction of the country's payment deadlines to 30 days and less, and in fact now all coalition groups are proposing an amendment to renew the payment deadline, that is to say 30 to 60 days. I believe that due not least to the aid to the economy, but also to the economy, the payment deadlines should be reduced and payment discipline provided. So this amendment is once again a departure from this principle of shorter payment deadlines. The Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed an amendment to shorten payment deadlines to 15 days. Then we reached an agreement on the Committee on Finance, which was also supported by the Committee on Finance, that the payment deadline is no more than 30 days, that is to say that the State pays up to 30 days on its own. Now coalition parties are renewing this deadline and entering uncertainty. In fact, if the time limit is between 30 and 60 days, it is a big difference whether the time limit is 30 or 60 days. And of course, this uncertainty is at the expense of the state budget and public finances, because this uncertainty will be charged by those operators who will apply for calls for certain investments for the country. So this will cost the country, on the one hand, and on the other hand this solution will also go in the opposite direction from helping the economy in these unenviable situations of the economic and financial crisis. We want to relax our credit crunches, we want greater liquidity of the economy, and we are not going here with simple moves against the economy. More! The key argument is that certain investments cannot be verified within 30 days and that this is why this period has to be extended. However, because of some investments, all payment periods will actually be able to suffer here. Well, the parliamentary group won't back it up. It is also possible to act very counter-crisis if we want, but apparently most have made a different decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u345	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SNS Group, Mr Bogdan Barovic will explain his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u346	Thank you. I will continue with the words of my previous interlocutor, I stress once again, irrespective of political colours. I'd like you to understand something. It is true that he is the producer of the ZIPra, the complementary proposal, the Government. However, I think we all know, all 90 Members and Members of this National Assembly, that the National Assembly is the one who adopts laws. And that we have established working bodies in the National Assembly as some predecessors, as some messengers who give their opinions and their instructions to all Members and Members. It's all good and it's all good. The meeting, which lasted almost 10 hours, was arduous but useful one. There were divergent opinions, but the last articles and amendments to this article were adopted. The amendment to Article 11 was adopted and it was clear that the text "day 60" should be replaced by "days up to 30" and "points". The amendment was also adopted, where the last indent of point 3 also referred to the payment of VAT to municipalities after the receipt of the funds. And this was accepted by the mother's working body by several or fewer votes of the opposition, positions, but this amendment was adopted. And the first question raised in the Slovenian National Party is this: Why does the mother's working body decide something unanimously - but the decision was, as it was, but it was unanimously adopted, for the amendment that I spoke about a little bit earlier - if then again the government, through the coalition groups, has this right, prevails? Is it necessary for the National Assembly, or are we Members, and is the mother’s working body necessary? Why do we decide something and also decide if this decision comes back to its original form? This, for the first time, is not fair and it is not fair, and for the second time, it is also not substantively useful because ZIPro supports the balance and we want a good economy and a 30-day deadline and paying the value added tax, which was given as a proposal for municipalities, is useful for the economy. And why this change? If this amendment is adopted, the Slovenian National Party will not support ZIP. However, we ask you to have some stamina, and if we have agreed on something on the parent’s working body, let us insist on it. However, if this amendment is not adopted, the Slovenian National Party of ZIPRO will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Can I put an amendment to article 11 to the vote? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 19. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] The amendment to Article 11 has been adopted. I'm putting an amendment to Article 14. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 14. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 14 has been adopted. I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 15. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the amendment to Article 15 has not been adopted. We are moving to a vote on Article 21. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the amendment to Article 21 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 25. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to Articles 1, 11, 14 and 21. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to any of these articles? [[No, no, ……]] The amendments will not be tabled and therefore we can move on to a full vote on the law. I note that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service and by my mother's working body that the text of the law would not have been harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u348	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this amendment of the Budget Implementation Act in 2008 and 2009 for a number of reasons. The most important reason for this is that it was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. It is that this law continues to be inconsistencies of this law and deepens the non-consistency of the legal system in the Republic of Slovenia, as this law regulates areas that are not simply subject to this law. These are salaries in the public sector and this is the amount of RTV contribution. So this law becomes some kind of convenient form, some kind of nadakone that always takes everything into itself, which is politically or otherwise not an appropriate coalition to do in the laws in question. We could completely change the public sector wage legislation in this budget package. We could also change the RTV Act in this budget package and therefore resolve the issues you have raised in the ZIPRO. In fact, you have also deliberately opposed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has pointed out this as a general comment to ZIP. Well, you've taken advantage of this argument of power and you've overturned professionalism and also some rational approach. Secondly, which is also an important and fundamental reason why we will not support it, but also certain substantive solutions. We could significantly reduce payment deadlines if we wanted to, we were on the right track, the Finance Committee even confirmed that. But then another desire and ambition reached into this and the result is that, in my opinion, they will not change the payment deadlines. If it is written that the payment deadlines are between 30 and 60 days, I believe that after most of the sixtieth day or 60 days - and we have done nothing. It would also be difficult to change at any time into future payment deadlines in the thirties if we had the will and determination to do so today. It is difficult for me to imagine that any other government would extend this, because it would be difficult to exceed some of the standards achieved. Thus we have not taken an important step forward here, and this is also one of the important substantive reasons why we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their personal name? No, no, no. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. I note that 66 Members and Members voted, 46 votes in favour and 18 against. [[46 voted in favour.]] [[18 against.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We shall proceed to the vote. There were 65 votes in favour, 63 votes in favour and 2 in favour. [[63 voted in favour.]] [[Two against.]] The law was passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we move on to the 6th point of the agenda that was interrupted before the amendment was decided. This is a proposal for a law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments to Article 1a, Article 7, Article 8 and Article 10 and Article 13 were tabled in second reading. I am moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour, 63 votes in favour and none in favour. [[63 voted in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment to Article 1a is adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 15 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 15.]] The amendment to Article 7 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 15. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 15.]] The amendment to Article 8 is adopted under number one. Here is another amendment to Article 8. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 30. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 30.]] The amendment under Article 2 to 8 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 47. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment to Article 10 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 13. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In a personal name. I ask you earlier, someone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Tanko, please, in your personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u350	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. One of the greatest achievements of this day will probably be to raise the commission by two wholes five times, what you're predicting with this amendment. I think that the Committee has reached sufficient consensus that this commission is 0.02 and that it is sufficient. And now the coalition comes with an amendment that increases the commission by two whole five times. I think that all this talk about saving, about worrying, you're breaking up with exactly this kind of solution when you're allowing the commission to go up two whole five times with some amendment. And I think you need to think about what you're actually doing in the coalition. In short, the direction is completely inconsistent with what you're saying; on the one hand, saving and on the other hand raising commissions for two wholes five times.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Please explain your voice in a personal name, mag. Tone Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u352	Nicely greeted! I think it is appropriate, however, to say that we have accepted virtually all the amendments unanimously on the home committee. This is probably one of those laws that was passed and dealt with with with with with the broad agreement of the coalition and the opposition, in order simply to take action, to the law that would act to help Slovenian companies. And practically at all points we have come up with good solutions and do not hold to what you have said, Mr Tanko. We, with our amendments, with the amendments of the committee, have substantially reduced all the costs of borrowing credits. We have substantially reduced the premiums, both for A, B and C ratings. Also, at the cost of borrowing credits with a premium or 0.05 costs, we are significantly lowering the costs, depending on the initial proposal. We believe that a 50% reduction in the cost of keeping records for these schemes is sufficient, and I therefore propose that we accept this amendment proposed by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u353	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] The amendment to Article 13 has been adopted. I note that the National Assembly has adopted amendments to Article 1a, Article 7, Article 8 and Article 13. I'm asking qualified candidates if anyone thinks they can draft an amendment to the law in the third reading. Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u354	The government has a harmonisation amendment. We propose that the term "banks" be replaced by "trustees" and that the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. the amendment to Article 9, be included, is missing there and this needs to be coordinated accordingly. At 1.a you have accepted the amendment where this has fallen out, and this should be repeated once again under Article 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Without question, the Government has warned that the adoption of the amendment has led to non-compliance with Article 1 and has prepared a harmonisation amendment. I ask once again whether anyone would like to table an amendment to the proposed amendments. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u356	Thank you very much. I'm predicting we're going to table an amendment to the third hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u357	I propose that we give the applicants time to submit the amendments by the beginning of the Assembly tomorrow and to suspend the meeting for that time, decide on the amendments tabled and on the proposed harmonisation amendment tomorrow, in the vote after the votes cast on the agenda items we have at the meeting tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item as well as today's session. Thank you very much. Good-bye tomorrow.
