ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u1	Please take your seats. I begin the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Victory by Jelinčič Nobleni, Joško Godec, Roberto Battelli and Janja Klasinc. I have invited the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to agenda items 1 and 14, the representative of the Council of State, to agenda items 8 and 9, the President of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, to the 12th agenda item, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 18th agenda and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 10 April 2009. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing the agenda or extending it, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Please, procedurally, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. I would like to know if the Penal Code will meet the business conditions. The Committee's meeting has already been convened before the hearing, or is it still possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u3	So, as you know, this proposal for this law is being dealt with as a matter of urgency. This means that it is time to submit a report to the competent homework body before the point is considered. This item remains on the agenda. Or there'll be this treatment, and we'll see when we get to that point. More than that can be said today. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Good bye to all of you! On April 16, we submitted a proposal in your name to extend the agenda of the meeting. We have also proposed to include on the agenda the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and deputies of the Commission of Inquiry of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who were responsible for the preparation and execution of the count of so-called deleted in 2003 and 2009, because of the suspicion that the results were officially published, results are tailored to the political needs of some public function holders and so on that I do not read any further. I note, however, that you have not included this request in this meeting or that we will probably not decide on it as a proposal for an extension of the agenda. I would like to know why the item is not included or is not included in the procedural proposals for amending the agenda of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The first thing, of course, is that this commission of inquiry has not yet been set up; today, it will be within this session. At the same time, we did not get the appropriate material with the names that we could decide on and clearly such an extension, a proposal for enlargement, after the agenda items were set at Friday's college, then by yesterday until 12 o'clock of the new proposal with this possibility. Therefore, of course, we cannot vote on this proposal for enlargement today. I would also mention, I think that of the twenty investigative commissions of late, only two so far have been such, where at the same time we have been able to accept the membership or composition of members of such a commission. That is why we are now going to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 5th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the session of the assembly, which will be resumed at 15:00, with agenda item 1, which is questions from Members and Members, Ministers and Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue or move on to 1. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 29 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of the question referred shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. On the first four questions, the opposition members and the coalition MP will be answered by the Prime Minister tomorrow, Tuesday, 21 April 2009 at 10 a.m. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a debate be held at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The following ministers and ministers apologized for this point today: Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, Dr. Igor Lukšič, Minister of Education and Sport, Dr. Mr Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, Mr Samuel Žbogar Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space from 17:00 on. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u7	Mr President, now that you have indicated how many ministers are absent, I ask: Has the government fallen? Usually, some of these ministers you mentioned have announced leaving the government and, apparently, are already doing so. Until the government falls, those who are not duly detained should sit here in front of Members and answer Members' questions. But if the government has fallen and the coalition has collapsed, then the assembly must first be informed. The government seems to have fallen apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u8	The answer is simple: The government has not fallen and don’t worry too much. If I fell, I'd fall in this choir and not anywhere else. As far as participation is concerned, I must also say that we certainly cannot be happy with such a number of excused ministers and ministers. The fact is, some are travelling abroad. However, we will draw the Government's attention to the fact that parliamentary democracy is an extremely important factor in parliamentary democracy and that due attention must be paid to this. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. First of all, Dr Patrick Vlačič should answer the question from the previous sitting, because he is absent, he will have to do so next time. Unless Members of Parliament, Mr Franci Kek and Peter Verlich, do not request a written reply. Mr. Kek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We'll get back to you and you'll get a written answer from the minister. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Well, I understand this very correct comment by my colleague, Mr Jerovska, that ministers do not participate in the answers to the questions raised by the Members. The fact that there are 18 ministers, I think the six present, indicates that only a third of the government is here. And given that we had a college on Friday, when we set the agenda and then, based on these college arrangements, we also redistributed the individual points, when individual cases will be dealt with from Monday to Friday, then it would be very appropriate to warn us on Friday that three quarters or two thirds of the government team will not be present. This point could be moved to a different day, just like the answers of the Prime Minister on Tuesday, as well as the responses of ministers. I mean, when we're looking at a disbanded government team like this, it's not appropriate, and our public is getting a very bad message. Apparently, two-thirds of the government's team is performing a white sentence and not attending meetings and not answering. In the event that they have other obligations, however, they could easily say to the college and move this point to another day so that the point could normally and peacefully take place as envisaged. I propose that, in all the following cases, when you find that many ministers will not be present, you also arrange for a proper hearing of the questions sent. This would probably be good, since the questions of the Members are not intended for themselves, but have some content and should also be adapted accordingly to the work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The absence was justified by six ministers or ministers, and I expect others to appear and be here in the Chamber. Mr. Verlich also wishes to proceed on a case-by-case basis. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have asked the Minister of Transport about the freezing of European funds for the motorway programme and this linkage, the alleged linkage, to the vignette system of discrimination. This is what I expected, so I asked the oral question, because it is extremely important that the Minister responds as soon as possible. I have been waiting for an answer to this question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I have not received an answer, today the Minister of Transport apologizes again. At this point, I would like to say that the Minister of Transport has not even answered my written question within 30 days - that is, as regards the conflict of interests of the President of the Slovenian Railways Supervisory Board, Andrej Godc. So, this points to - I don't know, the President of the Government said that ministers would survive in the National Assembly more than in the Government, and now I'm surprised, and I'm really asking you to make a strong statement to the government that the ministers will come and answer our questions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Puksic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers of the government! I propose that, as put forward for the Prime Minister of the Government tomorrow at 10 a.m., we also put the questions before the ministers. This is in accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For the following reasons, namely, we have not received any information as to where they are or whether the ministers are justifiably absent and are not attending a meeting of the National Assembly today, but, according to some information, at least some of them are supposed to be present today at the Ljubljana City Council. And given that there is a debate about a topic that would permanently mark crimes against humanity, and because today is also the birthday of one of the greatest dictators in the history of humanity, Hitler, I think from this title Members and Members should not protest even to those who are here, and they are not guilty of this, of the questions sent by Ljubljana because it is not only a city of citizens and citizens, but Ljubljana is also the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, so all citizens and citizens. Therefore, as a Member of the National Assembly, which I have a question for the Minister of Higher Education, if you do not interrupt, I publicly and clearly declare that I am protesting in such a way that I do not ask him the question of a Member of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u16	I cannot put this procedural proposal to a vote on the suspension or transfer of this point, which has already begun. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, you can't, Mr Pukšič, the point has begun. Before considering the point, we could suggest moving points, but this is no longer possible. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We're moving on, Mr. Puksic. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, answered the question of mag. Joyful Žereva in relation to milk production. Please, Mr. Secretary. Procedural Mr. Saiovic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much, President. I wanted to show my good faith, but I wanted to give up this matter procedurally because you missed it, but it's okay. My procedural initiative is to continue this meeting as soon as possible. Since I am already a member of the second term, I have several good memories and experiences from the previous term when that bench was much more empty in front of me. At this point, I see three ministers and four ministers of the voluntary work, 32 questions raised by the Members, and I am sure that all these questions will be answered. However, as for April 1st, it is already over, as well as some date for a disputed person from the history you mention, I don't think he deserves any attention in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Minister, Dr. Milan Pogačnik. I ask you to answer the question of the Magi. Joyful Žereva in relation to milk production.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Radovan Žerjav asked the question: What measures are envisaged at the Ministry of the Stabilisation and Association of Milk in Slovenia, with a strong reduction in the buying-in price of milk? For the introduction, I would like to say this: in Slovenia, the number of dairy farmers has been declining in recent years, as an intensive restructuring process is under way in Slovenia in the milk sector, which is reflected in the increase in agricultural production and the reduction in the number of agricultural holdings by milk production. This is a similar process that is also taking place in some other new members of the European Union. Thus, between 2002 and 2003, 13,900 dairy farmers gave milk to 473 million kilograms of milk and, in 2008-2009, 8,000 breeders gave up about 519,000 million kilograms of milk. The amount of milk is increasing, but indeed the number of breeders is falling, and some smaller ones are turning it over to larger production systems, thus increasing market orientation as well as the economy. This restructuring process will undoubtedly continue and will be reflected in the concentration of livestock in the agricultural economy. Nevertheless, Slovenia is still lagging behind the average of large economies in the European Union. In Slovenia, there are about 12 cows for the agricultural economy, 20 for Europe and 50 for the 27th and 15th. As far as ransom prices are concerned, these have really changed. The reasons are different. The high prices were in the past period. We know that in 2007 and 2008, the purchase prices for milk were extremely high. Then it is a reduction in feed and energy prices, which somehow mitigates the consequences of the crisis, it is a global financial crisis and higher production in some countries outside the European Union and so on. Slovenia did not avoid these situations as part of the common market, but despite all the comparisons between the prices of the purchase milk in Slovenia, in 2008 33 cents per litre, while in January 2009, we recorded a smaller drop, not a significant drop, so the price in January 2009 was 30.41 points per litre. Nevertheless, not only Slovenia, the European Union has also drawn up a list of stabilisation measures. Slovenia, together with Austria, Hungary, Slovakia and Germany, decided to prepare a special memorandum for the last meeting of European agricultural ministers, proposing a number of measures to mitigate the milk crisis. Part of these measures have been taken into account and the measure, which speaks, for example, of halting the rapid change in quotas, has been rejected by the Commission. In any event, the measures implemented in the European Union and also in the European Union are support for private storage of butter, intervention buying-in of butter and skimmed-dust, as well as export incentives. In Slovenia we have also prepared other measures under the 2007-2013 rural development programme, which are mainly intended to support investment and milk production. These measures, which have the title of adding value to agricultural and forestry production, have been presented here for a total of EUR 28 million in different forms of options to which milk producers can compete. A new call for agricultural investment will be launched in May 2009, including investments in milk, such as investments by young farmers, investments in free farming on organic farms and investments in livestock. The funds will amount to around 12 million euros. However, there are other measures at the national level, such as co-financing of milk lines, which would partially cover the costs of milk transport to breeders in remote areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Minister Milan Pogačnik will answer Mr Guid Kres's question about the means to remedy the effects of the storm, and I remind you, Mr Minister, that you have only two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u21	With regard to Mr Guid Kres's question, I thank you for the question - it is last year's storm. It's a very short time at my disposal. I'll do my best. Last year, 7 million €700 000 was earmarked for the purpose of providing economic security for farms to co-finance insurance premiums, 40% of which is co-financing of insurance premiums. This year we increased this quota to 50%. Since there were three major storms last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to assess these damage. On the basis of the data obtained, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food decided to pre-pay direct payments to those agricultural economies that were significantly affected by last year's storms. An amount of EUR 4 million was paid in October last year after confirmation by the Commission of the European Union. An invitation to tender was also issued at the Ministry for the allocation of funds under the measure of modernisation of agricultural holdings for the renovation of agricultural premises and other buildings and for agricultural purposes, as well as permanent plantations of olive groves damaged in natural disasters in 2008. The indicative amount of grants amounted to 2 million, the tender is not yet completed, so the funds have not yet been spent. On the basis of the data obtained from the Department of Protection and Rescue, the Ministry has also prepared a programme to remedy the effects of damage on damaged agricultural land, it is a special measure, and this story is somehow being prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the State Commission to address the consequences of damage to things, and it is also designated with the Ministry of Environment and Space. The total necessary land recovery resources for all three neurons amount to EUR 5 million, with the 2009 programme providing 1 million more money, while the remaining funds will be settled and paid by 2012. The same is true of forest rehabilitation, and that was your question. The Forest Department has developed a rescue plan, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate...]] providing for recovery in the years 2008-2009 and 2010. [[..]] In 2008, the government's decision was a million €42 000 budget reserve, of which the amount was spent [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I have two questions for the minister, and I gave them in writing. The first concerns the role, importance and work of the Council for Criminal Law and the second refers to the invitation to tender. Indeed, the work was published on Friday or Saturday on a very interesting public invitation to tender, which I will talk about in the second part of my question. As far as the Council for Criminal Law is concerned, Mr Minister, the situation is such that you often mention it in the National Assembly. The Criminal Law Council advised you on the Penal Code, advised you on the Law on Lawyery and so forth; but I wonder what the Criminal Law Council is - what is it anyway? In fact, in this country we have courts that give principled opinions in this country, we have a National Assembly that adopts authentic explanations of individual laws - and you are advised by the Council for Criminal Law. The Council for Criminal Law is headed by you, you are a politician, and that means that the Council for Criminal Law is a typical political body. As a typical political body, we can probably agree on this. He recommended the Law on Lawyering - we know what the purpose of the Law on Lawyering was, quite differently from what you wrote: the aim of the Law on Lawyery was to charge lawyers' pockets. He recommended a new penal code, which, as you know, I stopped him as Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, and I am still convinced that I did the right thing. In fact, all the services, from the Supreme Court to the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government, and last but not least until the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament, have said that the Penal Code of Dr. Lovra Šturma is all right, and this world is giving you the wrong, completely wrong, signals. I'm asking: How is the world, and how much money do you spend on it? I was also struck by the invitation to tender, published - think, honourable Members, that there will be no mistake - published 14th and the invitation to tender shall be valid until 17th of this month. It means three days! Three days to publish this invitation! Mr. Minister, you are here looking for advice on strategic relations with the public. I stress: counseling, not performance! And you're offering ninety thousand euros for that. Ninety thousand euros for public relations advice in one year! Excuse me, Minister, Mr Borut Pahor may be President of the Government for twenty years and can save another twenty years - which I respect to save on coffee - but he will not save as much as you throw out of the window with this invitation to tender. Read point 2. In fact, in point 4 is the deadline with the conditions for the submission of tenders even "copy - paste", here you are talking about internal audit reports; it is said, pure stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u24	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I must warn you, Sir, dear fellow Dr. Gorenak, that only one question can be asked. You've been talking about two questions, and I don't have a question before me, so I'd say the Minister has only one question to answer. Of course, there may be enquiries and so on, but only if you want an additional or other question, you need to ask this or report this question, of course, for the next meeting. [[...]] The Minister of Justice has the floor, Mr. Aleš Zalar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Gorenak, for the question. First of all, with regard to the Criminal Law Council. This Council was established on the basis of Article 20 of the Law on State Administration. May I remind you that this article stipulates that the Minister, any minister, may establish an expert council as his expert consultative body to deal with professional issues in the administrative areas of the Ministry or to advise policy-making. So it's not a political body, it's a professional advisory body, which is foreseen by the law adopted by the National Assembly. Under the law, the Ministry of Justice is responsible, inter alia, for the drafting of legislation in the field of criminal law. To this end, this Council has been set up - to advise on the acquisition of views and opinions on rules and policies in the field of criminal law. This is therefore not a working group to write amendments or additions to individual laws, but it is a group of experts who are supposed to have a comprehensive review of the situation in this area, especially given how sensitive the area of criminal law is and how often the changes that are taking place in this area and which the Government is planning. This body, therefore, as the consultative body of the Minister, has no direct role to play in relation to other branches of government. So he gives only his professional opinions on the tasks that the minister or ministry has under law. With regard to the work of this world itself, I would like to correct you, because the Council is not competent and has not been asked to give any opinion on the Law on Lawyery, because this area does not, of course, fall within the area of criminal law - and the Council has not expressed itself on this issue. He spoke about the issue of the Penal Code, the issue of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act and the future of criminal law. With regard to funds for the work of the Council, I can say that the resources envisaged are only as far as the travel costs are concerned to those members of the Council who are not employed in the national authorities. No other funds are foreseen for this purpose, nor have they been paid so far. So far, two meetings have been held and one non-Ljubljana Council member has both notified these travel costs. They amounted to €27 once and €37 twice. And only these funds, i.e. for the reimbursement of travel costs, are also provided for the functioning of the Council, for which the administrative and technical tasks are carried out by the Ministry directly. With regard to the public call for the provision of strategic advice services and public relations activities, first of all, let me tell you that this invitation to tender is not linked to the functioning of the Council for Criminal Law, although of course it is not excluded that, for example, in a situation where the so-called great novelties of criminal procedure would also have to be carried out by certain strategic communication, given how major changes are envisaged in this area. The main reasons why the Ministry of Justice has issued this call are elsewhere. In fact, Slovenia is starting to chair the Council of Europe this month. And the Ministry of Justice has an extremely large and wide responsibility under the government programme in this area, which can even be compared to the EU Presidency to some extent. The second reason was that at the Ministry of Justice we found that we have great difficulties in communicating with the public about the area of EU law. Although, according to our assessment, about 60% of the Ministry of Justice's normative activities fall outside the area of EU law, the public's interest in the issues governed by this law and, consequently, the understanding of this law is very poor. So in these very focused areas, we want to substantially strengthen public understanding of what this country is preparing and what regulations are being drawn up - either at home or as a member of the EU - in what way these rules will achieve people, what people can expect and so on. In some parts, this issue may also concern some of the more important national legislative projects. However, the time limit for the publication of the invitation to tender shall be fixed by law. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Explain first. Of course, the question put correctly, Mr President, and the Minister has also understood and answered it in the context of which I thank you. Look, Mr. Minister, the Council for the so-called criminal law - I accept that part of the answer when you talk about the law on lawyers. You may not have talked about this in particular, but I am afraid that something is very wrong with this Council for Criminal Law. I mean, if I go chronologically. You first say on TV: "Sturm's law does not allow the punishment of minors."you give all Slovenian minors a green light so that they can steal - in their own words - because they will not be punished. And then the Council for Criminal Law will come to the attention of one hundred percent or almost one hundred percent of the people who find that this is true, and the Council for Criminal Law claims that this is true. So, we have a terrible legal void in the penal code. You take this, you come to the government, and you make this very clear to the government and the government accepts the amendment of the penal code. And as a matter of urgency, we fly into Parliament quickly. With the Government's Legal and Legal Service saying, "No, there's no legal void!" Then he said to Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service, "No, there's no legal void." The higher court in Ljubljana decides, "No, there is no legal void." But you insist on changes to the Penal Code regarding the opinion of this world. That seems absurd to me, so I also waited to explain to you, with the work of the committee. However, I think, as far as the second part is concerned, this is the invitation to tender, Mr Minister, there is not a single word in this invitation to tender about what they will do. The only thing written in this invitation is that the most favorable bidder will be this and that - the one - who will - will get 29 thousand [[End warning sign]] This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. Nowhere does it say, in a single word, that the European Union is not mentioned, there is nothing mentioned in one word. That money would be much better given to those people who are having a hard time living today, you know. That's why I'm asking you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Minister Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u29	With regard to the specific question of the Council's decision on criminal law or its opinion, it was the opposite: first, the Council adopted an opinion on what it thought about the Penal Code, and only then, as Minister, did I speak about it in public. These opinions are very different. The opinions of the courts are different, both first-degree and appeal. This is evident from the fact that the court is now the one that demanded an assessment of the constitutionality of the Penal Code. And the Constitutional Court is addressing this issue, and I hope that it will be addressed with absolute priority, given the importance of this issue. There are great differences in understanding which Penal Code applies, if any. The Legislative and Legal Service in Parliament and the Government's Legal and Legislative Service claim that a new criminal code should apply. According to the interpretations taken by the courts, the old criminal code should apply. According to some interpretations of certain courts, no criminal code should apply. According to the majority of the members of the Criminal Law Council, it is supposed to be such a legal void that it cannot be filled with interpretation, given that the fundamental legal principle of "lex certa" in criminal law applies here. In short, it's a matter of considerable uncertainty. If, until this amendment of the Penal Code - and I apologize now - we are actually discussing a topic that should have been dealt with on your committee, but it was not because you interrupted the meeting - if we leave the situation as it is, it can happen that today we have a militia, which means that no one can be punished if he is a minor, for any crime. And these were the reasons why, in my opinion, it was right that the Council for Criminal Law also held a debate on this and gave its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I will ask for a discussion under Article 246. Why? For the first time, because I am so much more confident now, Mr President, that I did the right thing. In such different opinions, we will indeed await the opinion of the Supreme Court, if not the Constitutional Court. And I'm sure it's the right thing to do. Thank you for your help in making this decision. And why do I suggest we discuss this in the general debate? That is why, Mr Minister, you have not said a word in the second part of the question about this invitation to tender. This invitation to tender should be withdrawn immediately, according to my assessment, because this invitation to tender belongs to Kos, Drag Kos, to look at it, in particular from the point of view of whom she "declared" and you have not answered anything, now in the second part, regarding this invitation to tender. 29,000 euros would make me much happier if we gave them to the Pomurkas and bought 10 tons of meat for those people who have nothing to eat. It would be much better if we put that money there. It will be significantly better if we give it to Karitas or to the Red Cross or anywhere in this country than to give it to a task that is not specified. This invitation to tender does not specify what the task will be; otherwise, see, on page 2 of point 4, you will be paying for this item every 30 days on the basis of an account for each individual internal audit carried out. Yeah? Are we now talking about internal audit or are we talking about public consultation? I'm not saying it's you, but it was someone who made you "copy-pasta" some kind of public order, quickly put it under your signature or the secretary-general's -- and that's not good. I am sure that this matter must be referred to in the debate I am talking about, as well as in a similar matter. I personally make it clear that it is not permissible to give 29,000 euros, which means 25 years of retirement, if you want, to someone just like that. In addition, if you look at the number of annexes that are in the back - in three working days, Members and Members of Parliament, no one is able to fill out all these forms; in three days no, you need to be informed in advance so that you can prepare such a public invitation. Therefore, Minister, I call on you and I will withdraw this request if this invitation to tender is withdrawn, but if it does not, I ask for a discussion on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday 21 April 2009, in the framework of the vote. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, ministers! In the current Spatial Plan of the Municipality of Miklavž in the Drava Field of 2004, part of the forest on the western edge of the village of Miklavž is listed as a building plot, although the legal basis for this has been abolished. This area was declared a building plot in 1990 with a software design for the Maribor-Zlatoličje motorway section, which was a complement to the then social plan of Maribor. In 1998, this software design was abolished due to the change of the highway route in the changes and additions to the Maribor social plan. Six months later, two new municipalities were established in that area: Miklavž in Dravska Polje, and Hoče-Slivnica, who adopted their first spatial plan in 2004. The Municipality of Miklavž in Dravska Polje in 2004 as the legal successor of Maribor Municipality did not therefore take into account the annulment of the status of the building land since the land in the area of the forest on the western edge of Miklavž in its spatial plan without valid legal basis took over as an area of building land. In this place it is also worth mentioning that the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Miklavž in the Drava Field of 2004 cannot in itself be the legal basis for the status of the building land, since it did not redefine the status of the building land for that area on the western edge of Miklavž. Thus, there is now a reasonable suspicion that the spatial plan of the Municipality of Miklavž in the Drava Field is unlawfully inconsistent with the applicable provisions of its legal predecessors. This suspicion also substantiates the fact that the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica took its part in the forest area, which was declared a building plot for the proposed motorway in 1990, in the spatial plan in 2004 as an area of forest land, taking into account the abolition of the status of the construction land in 1998. That's why I'm asking Minister Erjavac, and I want to ask: What is his opinion or opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and Space regarding the legality of the current spatial plan of the municipality of Miklavž in Drava Field in 2004? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u34	Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, too, for the question I have been asked. But I must say that I have a slightly different question in writing that it is not as specific as you verbally asked me. But in a written question, you ask me how the Ministry of Environment and Space exercises control over the work of the administrative authorities in the adoption of spatial acts in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government. Therefore, for a specific example, what my opinion is, at this point, I cannot answer because I did not expect such a specific question. In general, however, I can say that municipalities, local communities are the ones responsible for the area of space regulation, and the Ministry of Environment and Space exercises sole control over the legality of spatial acts and other general acts. .................................................. Thus, the Ministry of the Environment shall not exercise direct control over the professionality of the work of the administrative authorities, unless it concerns powers conferred on it by national authority. The Ministry of the Environment exercises its control over the legality of spatial acts in two ways: firstly, it is called pre-trial supervision, that is to say, in the very procedure for the adoption of spatial acts, so it provides for the Law on the regulation of the premises, namely, that the municipality submits to the Ministry of the Environment a municipal spatial plan, then the Ministry of the Environment examines this plan and also transmits it to the other operators of the area, namely the Ministry, for bodies with specific public powers. As I have said, at this time the Ministry of the Environment will also review whether the act is prepared in accordance with the Spatial Regulation Act and also whether the act has complied with the guidelines and determinations of State spatial acts. If the relevant act is prepared, then the Ministry of the Environment shall confirm such an act, provided, of course, that all operators of the regulation of the premises have also given their consent. Then, too, he matured to be confirmed by the congregation council. If one of the operators of space regulation gives negative views, for example, I do not know the Ministry of Culture or any other ministry, for example, for agriculture, then such a matter goes to the Government and the Government decides to approve such a spatial act. However, another form of surveillance is called ex post surveillance. Here, however, is an example of supervision when it is carried out on the basis of a client initiative or a civil initiative or that we receive an initiative from citizens. In this case, we examine whether the spatial act is in accordance with the Constitution and if we find it unconstitutional, then the Ministry of Environment and Space proposes to the Government to submit a request to assess the conformity of such an act before the Constitutional Court. In this case, we may also require the harmonisation of this act with the Constitution, but it may also be provided that the implementation of such an act is immediately suspended. Thus, this particular case that you have given me should examine and examine whether it is a spatial act which is contrary to the Constitution and, if it is contrary to the Constitution, then it would be possible for the Government to take the initiative to submit a request for a conformity assessment before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the fact that apparently two municipalities of Miklavž and Hoče-Slivnica interpret the legal legacy of spatial acts from Maribor Municipality in a diametric way, something has to be done. The programme design for the Maribor - Zlatoličje motorway section from 1990 included approximately 14 hectares of a large regulatory area in the area of forest on the western edge of Miklavž, providing for the construction of a replacement primary school, as the highway itself would require the demolition of an existing school. This regulatory area is now located in the forest in the territory of two municipalities, Miklavž and Hoče-Slivnica. The programming design which declared this regulatory area an area of building plots was fully repealed in 1998. It is clear from the spatial plans of the municipality of Miklavž and Hoče-Slivnica that the municipality of Miklavž continues to have its part of this area as an area of building land, while the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica considers that this area of forest land is precisely due to the cancellation of the programme design for the motorway section of Maribor-Zlatoličje in 1998. The municipality of Hoče-Slivnica has never declared its part of this former regulatory area as a forest land, because it has only taken over the situation from the spatial acts of its legal predecessor Maribor Municipality. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How is it possible for two municipalities to interpret the same spatial acts of their legal predecessors, which equally concern areas that are part of both congregations, so diametrically opposite? On this basis, will you reintroduce any of the procedures laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government in Chapter 10 of the State Authorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u39	As I've already predicted, we're going to take a look at this. It is truly unusual that one congregation interprets the same spatial plan in a very different way, the other congregation. In this way, we will look at what is going on in this matter and also then act in accordance with the powers that I have already described in my first reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Čepič will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Minister, Dr. Ljubica Jelusic! The Defence Act in its 84th Article requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international operations and missions. The Service in the Slovenian Army Act in Article 22 provides for different forms of cooperation in the implementation of obligations undertaken by the Republic of Slovenia under international treaties, and this is a matter of cooperation in the military field. In civil matters, this is governed by another law, namely the Law on secondment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations. Of course, it is an important cooperation between both military and civilian persons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you have repeatedly raised the issue of the role of the National Assembly in monitoring decisions on the participation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and civilians in peacekeeping operations and missions. In recent times there have also been expert discussions and initiatives by the Ministry of Defence in conjunction with other ministries of integrated approach in the preparation of a strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions. I hope that you still believe that the National Assembly can play an important role in informing and giving initiatives in the cooperation and guidance of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as others involved in civilian missions. So I ask you: What will this comprehensive strategy look like? And: What has the Ministry of Defence, including other ministries, done so far for the greater debate role of the National Assembly? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u43	The Honorable President. Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Chapich. Dear Members and Members. I thank you for this extremely important question because it is one of the key defence-professional issues that we have faced as soon as we have come to the Ministry of Defence. In fact, the life of international operations and missions is such that it happens continuously and decisions need to be made very quickly. But these decisions can also be very fatal. It is therefore necessary to identify a way to achieve a greater degree of involvement of the Slovenian public, in particular the political public in considering or addressing these issues. We therefore felt that it was right for the National Assembly to have a significantly greater role to play in this regard than has been the custom so far. You have already cited some of the laws in which there is a certain way of travelling to international operations and missions, but the fact is that this way defines primarily the powers of the Government, but less defines the possibilities for dealing with or the role of the National Assembly or even Parliament as a whole. What was an essential starting point for us when we started both in the Government and at the Ministry of Defence to think about international operations and missions was that, on the one hand, we wanted to get adequate support both in public, as well as in the political public for international operations and missions, and on the other hand, we wanted to have a comprehensive review as a country of all types of operations; both those who are international operations and missions under the law on defence, as well as those which are civilian missions and are set out in the Law on Civilian Missions and in international organisations, as well as those who are running under the Law on Natural Disasters and are actually international rescue operations. As gentlemen firefighters and firefighters are with us today, I think it is good to say that there are many firefighters involved in these international rescue operations. We then adopted a decision in the Government on the debate role of the National Assembly on 9 April this year to establish a procedure whereby a greater role can be played by the National Assembly, in particular when deciding on new operations and missions and on the termination of certain operations and missions in which the Republic of Slovenia is already involved. We have already used this procedure in operation "Nato training mission in Iraq", which was a two-step procedure. The government first accepted the intention of what it would do with a particular operation, and then this intention was communicated to the National Assembly. We then discussed this initiative in the National Assembly in two parent bodies, in the Committee on Foreign Policy and in the Committee on Defence, and on the basis of this debate, and on the basis of an additional assessment by the Government, we then took a decision. These types of two-stage treatment would like to be used in the future as long as new operations are concerned and as long as the old operations are discontinued. Even in the case of major, substantial changes in existing operations, we would be pleased if we could also use such a procedure. Let me say that I will be very happy if we can say a word together in the coming days about our Slovenian responsibility, as maritime states for events along the Somali coasts, where there are also ships, even though they are no longer under Slovenian flags, but still bear Slovenian names and have Slovenian sailors on them. Therefore, in this decision, adopted by the Government on 9 April, we have also taken a decision to establish a comprehensive strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in participating in international operations and missions, and in doing so, as you have already pointed out, we have carried out a series of consultations. These discussions started already in January this year, from a consultation on what types of bases we already have in the past with regard to a possible strategy, to how, despite the various laws under which referrals are taking place, we can establish a single view of operations and missions, to how we can talk about these operations in the future or all of this in a single integral document. May this year, we hope to be able to present this document to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u45	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. The Law on Lawyers, the so-called Sturm Law, provides in Article 5 that the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia shall maintain a list of lawyers and lawyers representing the parties on official duty or providing services of free legal assistance. The law also provides that the Chamber of Counsel is obliged to forward this list to all courts and to notify them of any change. The law also provides that the lawyer has freely decided on the listing and that he may propose to delete it from that list. However, following the submission of the proposal, he is obliged to act for a party for another 30 days. Dear Mr. Zalar, Minister of Justice. So I'm wondering: How many lawyers and lawyers in the Republic of Slovenia were entered on this list on 30th day. 6. 2008; 31. 12. 2008; 31. 1. 2009; 28. 2. 2009 and 27. 3. 2009? I am also interested in law firms: how many lawyers are employed in these companies that are registered on the list of companies representing clients on official duty or providing free legal aid services? I am also interested in the maximum amount that has been paid to the lawyer or to the lawyer from the budget for all actions in a particular case in respect of representation under official responsibility until 31. 12. 2008 and the maximum amount paid after 1. 1. 2009 I am also interested in the maximum amount of reimbursement in the public procurement review process; it is a charge, a lawyer and other costs, where the contractor has succeeded in the audit, and the contracting authority and the State has been determined by a decision of the State Audit Commission to pay the costs. I am interested in the data for 2008 and I am interested in the maximum amount of reimbursement in the public procurement review process in the same way - fees, lawyers and other costs - for 2009, i.e. after 1 January 2009. In these cases, of course, I am also interested in what is essential: how much was the value of the contract which was cancelled in the audit and how much was the value of the contract in the reopened procedure? For example, Markovac's case is such an interesting story where the value has been halved and we are talking about saving some ten million euros. These questions are of interest to me because we have not received the answers to them even when you changed the Law on Lawyers following an urgent procedure, nor when an initiative was adopted for a constitutional review of the subsequent legislative referendum of this law, in which you referred to the unconstitutional consequences that might have arisen, but were not justified by anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. First of all, I must reply that the Ministry of Justice by law is not obliged or entitled to maintain the information that you have requested regarding lawyers and law firms, so we have to obtain this information from Friday afternoon until today, and the data is incomplete. This information shall be kept in the District Courts. Given that you are requesting data on a particular day in 2008 and 2009, I will surely be running out of time to explain to you what the situation is. But I will start with which courts have not yet provided answers: District Courts of Slovenj Gradec, Ptuj, Murska Sobota, Novo mesto and Ljubljana mainly not yet. Otherwise, the number of lawyers represented in the cases "ex offo" on 30.6.2008: Celje 66, Koper 38, Krško 20, Maribor 87. Number of lawyers who worked in matters of free legal aid: Celje 47, Koper 21, Nova Gorica 44, Krško 21, Maribor 81. This is all the situation on 30.6.2008. Status on 31.12.2008: Celje 64, Koper 38, Krško 20, Maribor 84, at "ex offo". Status with BPP: Celje 45, Koper 23, Nova Gorica 43, Krško 21, Maribor 81. State 31.1.2009: Celje 64, Koper 6, Krško 21, Novo mesto 29, Maribor 80, free legal aid: Celje 45, Koper 3, Nova Gorica 6, Krško 22, Ljubljana appears here with data 198, Maribor 81. In front, 28.2.2009: Celje 64, Koper 6, Krško 21, Novo mesto 29, Maribor 77. Free legal aid: Celje 44, Koper 4, Nova Gorica 28, Krško 22, Maribor 67. And another 27 March 2009: Celje 64, Koper 6, Kranj 43, Krško 20, Maribor 77 and Novo mesto 29. For free legal aid: Celje 43, Koper 3, Nova Gorica 29, Kranj 43, Krško 21, here is again Ljubljana 193, Maribor 67 and Ptuj appears here with the only data 32. This is now the information provided by the courts on the number of lawyers, and you must take into account that this information must be linked to the notices sent to these courts by the district lawyers' councils that all lawyers withdraw from these lists. With regard to the number of lawyers employed in law firms, this information is not available at the Bar, so I can't give it to you. Nor is the Ministry because it is not lawful under law to collect such data. With regard to the amount of payments in the "ex offo" cases and free real assistance, these data are not collected, the Central Supreme Court does not have them. Partially, according to individual courts, we managed to obtain data on the state of affairs on 31.12.2008, but this is certainly not a comprehensive review for 2008, namely: Celje 11.603, Koper 10.341, Novo mesto 9.943 Euros, Maribor 19,610 Euros, Slovenj Gradec 7.553 Euros. These are, according to the Courts, the highest amounts for "ex offo" representation. According to the state on 1.1.2009, for example, Koper messages EUR 11.842, Krško 3.399, Novo mesto 5.375, Maribor 19.776, Slovenj Gradec 7.370. These are the data we have been able to obtain in this short period of time. About the audit. In the State Audit Commission, by law, they do not keep records of the data you are asking for, so we have specifically requested this information. We've been informed that since the Law on Lawyers is [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] has entered into force 1. 1. 2009, this is mostly for applications not yet decided, ranging from €79,267 to €31,550. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Chernač? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, the law is very clear in Article 5 that the list of lawyers is chaired by the Bar and not by the Court. It is the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia which is obliged to provide a list of lawyers to all courts and to notify them of any change. I'm sure you don't know that. Nor do you know that district councils of lawyers are not the ones who can decide on the entries or deletions in this list, but only any lawyer as an individual can make that decision under the law. Lawyers in these congregations were also warned about this. As a result of this, your information, which you stated that the district councils have taken a decision on the exemption, cannot be considered relevant, but rather as a misappropriation of the public. The information you provided shows that it is not true what you claimed when we dealt with the law under urgent procedure, and that it is not true what you claimed in the National Assembly when you convinced the ruling majority that there would be urgent and harmful consequences if no constitutional assessment of the subsequent legislative referendum on your law was adopted. The information you gave suggests, in part, what we have argued all the time, that it is not true that lawyers in these lists have written that the truth is different and also the numbers you have just mentioned indicate that the number is about the same as it was. Moreover, it has increased in some courts. It is unacceptable that the competent minister does not have this information, he should have it when the law was dealt with on 27 March following an emergency procedure in this National Assembly, and no later than 8 April, when he based it on these unreliable data, that [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Unconstitutional consequences arising if this National Assembly does not adopt a constitutional assessment of the subsequent legislative referendum. [[...]] Please fully answer my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u51	I have to turn down the deception. The Ministry of Justice, in the legislative procedure relating to the Law on Lawyers, transmitted to the National Assembly the information received from the courts and the Bar. And it is clear from this information that lawyers have collectively withdrawn from these lists for representation under official duties and for free legal aid matters. I also spoke about this as a minister here in the National Assembly several times. However, it holds your information that this case shows the need to regulate this area of lists on which lawyers are appointed. This was also one of the reasons why we decided at the Ministry and Government to propose a change of law to the National Assembly. In this regard, I can assure you that, as Minister, I will make sure that these lists are updated, regardless of whether the old ones will be established, i.e. the current arrangements, whether there will be a new one, or whether there will be a new one in the Constitutional Court's opinion on the referendum initiative, because it has proved to be the practice itself, and now I have to say that the practice of bringing lawyers on these lists is not uniform, is not entirely in the spirit of law, is linked to situations where someone comes to court with a lawyer under the authority and then the court gives this lawyer the status of an attorney on official duty. There is a gray fox here and the Ministry of Justice will in any case address this issue in a way that will be updated in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u53	Of course, my question was not answered. It was not fully answered. The answer is extremely flawed, I did not get a whole range of information about what I asked, although I announced this question exactly as I read it today by 12 noon on Friday last week. It is unacceptable that the competent minister does not have the information on the basis of which he justified the amendment of the Sturm Law in the National Assembly and, a few days later, based on the request for a constitutional review of the subsequent legislative referendum, that there will be unconstitutional and harmful consequences because there will be no lawyers to represent "ex offo" or provide free legal assistance. We heard today that that's not the case. There are over 200 such lawyers in Ljubljana alone, if I do not count all the other courts in the Republic of Slovenia. I said in the debate when we discussed this that even if there were only one, there would not be these consequences that you were justifying. We can see that the problem is not that it was hypothetically presented and hypothetically intended. I think it's a very delicate matter. It is that Mr Zalar has deceived the National Assembly and deceived the entire Slovenian public, knowingly, without knowing it. That's what the minister calls it. In your place, Mr. Zalar. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u54	Mr. Blackach, you wanted procedural. It's gone now, and it can't be a controversy. Please plead the procedural matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u55	I would like to say procedurally that in the answer, neither in the first part nor in the second part, it was not nearly answered to my question. For this reason, I propose that, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the next meeting of the Minister be held to discuss the Minister's response to my question, in which precise, specific data, as requested in the question, should be obtained, because it is essential for me to review the extent to which a specific public contract has been made, given that the audit has been carried out, that it is appreciated. The Markovac case tells us about a few 10 million euros! Here are the legal costs of secondary importance. And next, I think it is necessary in this debate to determine whether this hypothetical case, which Mr Minister referred to in the debate, has actually taken place in Krk or not. And if it did happen, there were no consequences that could have arisen, as he reasoned, because there would have been no representation under official duty. In the National Assembly, by the ruling coalition, we listened to the intimidation of people as criminals walked the streets because there would be no official representation. Today we see that this is not the case. Mr. Justice Minister has himself assigned this to him. It is necessary to discuss the answer to this question not only because it has been incompletely answered but also because the National Assembly and the entire Slovenian public have been misled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question of the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 21 April 2009, in the framework of the vote. I ask the Member, Mr Ribič and Mr Yuri to understand. Mr France Tsukati will now raise the question of the Member of Parliament to the Minister of Health because he will later take over the meeting. I hope you understand that. Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Thank you to your colleagues, too. Mr Minister, we are back in dental care, and we will probably both agree that one of the features of Slovenian dentistry is that it is becoming increasingly accessible and that quality is sometimes worrying. As many as 24% of adult Slovenians do not go to a dentist, they are virtually never defined anywhere. The next feature of Slovenian dentistry is also the modest capacity of dentistry. One dentist comes to 2,600 adults; in Europe this number is significantly lower; it is acceptable to 1,600 inhabitants per dentist. The dental supplies split in ten years. I emphasize, halves, compared to other health spheres. Ten years ago, dentistry still received 8% of compulsory health insurance funds, now just 4% not to mention administrative burdens, which in the last year or in these months are so much burdensome for dentists, that practically for a third of their time it takes up direct administrative matters and, of course, there is so much less time for patients. During this time of accession to these problems, the Institute for Health Insurance will receive funding by the number of patients identified, which means that the budget will remain the same, despite the increase in the number of dentists allocated. And once all adult Slovenians have been identified, of course, they will be 30% less than they are today, because the number of dentists will increase from 1,900 to 2,600, that is a 30% increase, and of course they will also be 30% lower. In addition to all of this, dentists are justified, as are patients. Why does this mean the quality of dental care? They will only resort to the cheapest services, such as tooth extraction, and then offer the patient a self-paid implantation of a new tooth.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Secretary of State for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u59	Dear Dr. Tuck. In some part of your question, I would agree with the findings. However, I will try to provide some additional information in my response, which I think show a slightly different light. It is difficult to answer the question of what is wrong with our dental policy. It is also difficult to answer in a similar way what is happening with our health system as it is a fundamental problem for us that we do not have a long-term orientation and a long-term or at least short-term strategy not in the field of dental health and not in the field of health policy in Slovenia. The development of health activities in our country has been running for a number of years, I would say gently, uncontrolledly, partly unplanned, in line with the interests of individual groups of operators or the environment, less in line with the needs of the population. However, the situation in this area is a picture and proof that without planned targeted development, both in dental and health care in general, there is no expectation of better results to the satisfaction of insured and citizens. Above all, the situation in dental activities has changed uncontrolled privatisation. The fact is that Slovenia - here we diverge, Dr. Cukjat, with one piece of data, I copied it from the data that the European Community has - per 100,000 inhabitants of 61 dentists, which is above the average of the EU, 25 members where they have 59. It's not an essential difference, it's a comparison. It's hard to talk about deficits in this area. However, of all 1,231 dentists in Slovenia, 505 - 40% are employed in public institutions, 597 are made on the basis of a concession and then, respected Dr. Tukjat another 160, who are pure private, is said to be without a concession. However, concessionaires behave differently from those who work in public institutions. Following complaints from the insured; as you do in your question, these complaints are not limited. We note that individual concessionaires adapt their working hours to their needs. He doesn't do many of them on Monday mornings. He does few on Friday afternoons. Therefore, with the new law and legislation that we are preparing, we want these things to be settled. Following complaints from the insurers, it is noted that individual ambulances of concessionaires have been closed for longer than permitted and there is no agreed compensation during the holidays and in other cases of absence. This, of course, reduces access to dental services for patients who cannot afford self-paid or superstandard services. We have done, doctor-respected, only one measure when, together with the Institute, we have requested that those dentists who have only 400 defined have to take on several defined ones to relieve this burden compared to those who have a thousand or more. I must tell you that we have not taken any action in the Ministry to impose additional administrative burdens. True, your conclusion is correct, Dr. Tsukjat, 4.4% are earmarked for dental care, of all funds. In terms of figures, in 2008 it was earmarked for dental care for sixty-six million from compulsory insurance and twenty-six from voluntary insurance. With the new legislation, we are serious about addressing these problems and problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u60	I'm asking you to complete your answer. Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you for the answer, which I am not very pleased with, and I would like to ask for further information. See, the payment system and what the Health Insurance Institute now introduces has nothing to do with whether the dentist is a concessionaire or an employee in a health care facility. There's no connection. Data on this is also covered for hair and black and white cannot be said that one is lazy, the other is good, one works only five hours a day, the other 12 hours a day. We know how it is. It is true, Mr Minister, that this is a very dangerous intervention, a drastic intervention in the way dentistry is financed, without having previously done some political project to resolve the whole issue. That's it. And I think a great deal of damage will be done if you miss out on what you've been predicting. This is no longer a matter of the Department of Health Insurance, but it is a matter of the Ministry: to guarantee quality. In the draft Health Act, you even plan to set up an institute, a health quality assurance agency, where dental care also belongs. With this, Mr Minister, which was introduced on 1 April, no one knows how this will proceed, and it is all confusion. This will bring down the quality we have. But here is no longer just the responsibility of the Department of Health Insurance, but it is your responsibility. I would ask if you would answer: What will you do to prevent this intervention of the Institute of Health Insurance into politics, the principle of dental policy, and to exercise the interests of the State?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister for an additional reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u63	Dr. Tukjat, we both know very well that in Slovenia we have a dentist who has defined thousands and more insured people and on the other hand a dentist who has three hundred and twenty-eight. That's not fair. We are seriously preparing, we have had a series of conversations and we have asked the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society, the Association of Dentists to join us in the new planning and concept of dental development in Slovenia, from the prevention of which we have not talked about to regular treatments. I am counting on this to be very quick and, in accordance with the proposal of the Health Act, we would have these things ready when we arrive at the National Assembly. However, I personally see that there is a major problem mainly in this part. And I think that part of the question comes from when I talked to the president of the dental section at the Slovenian Medical Chamber, with Mrs. Merkel, and we discussed these topics, and when I suggested that we should introduce some way of controlling how services are paid to have a precise picture of what the insured pays, what the insurance pays and what the voluntary insurance pays, I received a written reply by email that we can talk about all things, but not about price controls and records. We've got problems here. The Ministry will come with a programme and I will ask the National Assembly or in the public debate on the new law for your additions and proposals. The measure, when proposed by the institution, agreed by the Ministry that those dentists with minimally defined people would increase this, and this was not an additional administration, but simply a levelling and some help to do more. Another piece of information. Concessionists, Dr. Cukjat, do 100% of the program concluded with the institution, public institutions no year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. The Minister of Finance is away. Please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear Members and Members of Parliament! At the time of the adoption of the new Income Law in 2004, we in the Slovenian People's Party argued that payments under agricultural policy measures would not be included in the income from basic agricultural and forestry activities. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food have taken the view that, due to the current regime of cadastral income, agricultural policy measures must be included in the Income Act. It was also promised that the ministries would prepare a new law on the identification of cadastral income based on a new methodology for calculating cadastral income. As a result of this new regime of cadastral income, agricultural policy measures are to be excluded from taxation under the Income Act. Therefore, the distinguished Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the Minister for Finance, I ask: When will the new Cadastrian Income Law be prepared and implemented? When will the new methodology for calculating cadastral income be prepared and implemented? When will the new methodology for calculating cadastral income be prepared and implemented, or when will appropriate amendments to the Income Act be prepared on the basis of the implementation of the two above rules? Currently, the current tax regime of Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmer, respected by the Minister, does not allow a fair and stable system for calculating the tax base for agricultural activity. As a result, Slovenian farmers in this extremely difficult economic and social situation are even more burdened than they could otherwise be. That's why I'm asking you to answer my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question to the Member of Parliament. I will only be able to respond to the part that falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. This issue is a major part of the work area of tax rules under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In 2008, we received information from the Ministry of Finance on the average amounts of subsidies for 2008 and 30.10.2008 we forwarded our opinion. While our opinion was different from that of the Ministry of Finance that payments for an area with limited opportunities for agricultural activity are environmental payments and, in our opinion, exempt from income, the Council of the European Union regulation of 2005 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development also defines. At the Ministry of Agriculture, we believe that the areas with limited factors and these payments should be regarded as environmental payments, because payment is fully conditional on the fulfilment of the standards for the environment, safe food, health and animal welfare, which are the basic condition for the implementation of this Regulation and are also linked to the principles of good agricultural and environmental performance. Beneficiaries shall have significant obligations under this Title, as they must grow for at least five years on approved and declared areas, otherwise they shall even refund payments. And I would also point out that Slovenia is strongly exposed to areas with limited factors, which are 80%. Also in the agricultural development strategy that we are preparing, and in general, the view is that we want to preserve the population of the area, that we also want to preserve the cultural landscape, and that is what is happening right on hilly farms, on mountain farms, on farms in Kras, where cultivation is the most intense. It is our opinion that we should comply with the Council regulation on support for rural development. In this regard, we have so far held two talks with the Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, we have not reached agreement, but the discussions are actually continuing and I hope that we will try to reach some agreement in this area, especially because last year this was different than you were probably informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you. On the basis of Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Minister of Finance answer my question orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you. The Minister of Finance will respond to the next meeting. And now Mr Franco Juri will ask the question of the question to the Secretary-General of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers and ministers. In recent discussions with representatives of nationalities in Slovenia and with their organisations, these are interested self-government communities, we have seen or have been presented to us by the interlocutors with concerns about informal hints that the Government will combine in the process of reorganisation some of its own structures of the Office of Nationality with some other offices or within a government service, where all segments that are somehow linked to the policy of equal opportunities would be covered. The concern of minority communities, namely Hungarians, Italians and Roma, stems from the fact that in the Office of Nationality they have the only true interlocutor in the Government, which came about precisely with this specific purpose to exercise the constitutional and existential rights of these nationalities. This is a three-community situation that belongs to them under the Constitution. After all, two have a specific seat in the National Assembly. It is expected that the government will act with great discretion when there is any change that might come to the disapproval or concern of these communities. In this case, we have actually experienced concerns. I ask the esteemed Secretary-General: What does he really hold, or is he really thinking in this direction? How do you feel that indirect problems will need to be informed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Thank you very much for the question, Member. Indeed, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of the discussions on how the public administration and the public sector are broader, has instructed ministries and government services to prepare possible amendments to the labour systemisation acts and to explore the possibility of possible integration of individual services or bodies within the departments and to prepare a proposal for organisational changes. The General Secretariat of the Government has the following. The General Secretariat of the Government is one job. It has about 160 employees, and there is also the Communications Office, just over 40 people, then there is the Protocol of the Republic of Slovenia, and then there are four, five small government services: the Office for Nationality, the Office for Religious Communities, the Office for Equal Opportunities and the Office for the Protection of Secret Data. Historically these government services were created in different times, something else is from, if you want, the past time, some of them were created during the previous governments. Finally, it has tried certain laws, including the law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment adopted in 2004, to ensure that all personal circumstances are treated equally. However, the creation of the Office for Equal Opportunities and the creation of an advocate within the Office for Equal Opportunities is the same treatment according to personal characteristics, for which the law states that it must be ensured regardless of gender, nationality, race, ethical origin, religion or belief, disability, age and so on, and so on, has so far been regulated only for the issue of sex, and this has to a certain extent insufficient. Therefore, as Secretary-General of the Government himself, after a few months of work, I have found that, as Secretary-General of the Government, I can properly direct the work of those services directly related to the work of the Government and the preparation of the work of the Government. However, services that deal with individual issues of a personal nature are, in fact, not adequately directed by anyone. While we have directors there, these are very small jobs, five, six, seven people: a director, an assistant or someone who deals with finance, someone who does public procurement, and then two or three people on professional assignments. One of the considerations that have been drawn up is that, somewhere in this mandate, the Government would develop a government service, which is a higher body, a stronger body than an individual body, at the Office of the Government for Development and European Affairs, and try to do so within the framework of this government service - the working name is currently "Government Service for Equality" - to concentrate and direct the work of all offices covering individual issues. This does not mean that the individual budgets of the current offices would unite, I would say, in substance, but we would still have separate programmes, but we could provide at least a single financial service, a single human resources issue, including a single legal system regulation. Let me just give you one case. For many years, the Court of Auditors has demanded that this issue be adequately addressed in the field of financing of nationalities and members of ethnic communities in Slovenian municipalities. The office or office has not done so, just as it has not yet addressed a number of other issues. At the same time, we have committed ourselves in a coalition agreement to try to prepare and upgrade legislation on the specific rights of indigenous communities this year and to regulate matters accordingly. The assessment is that if the government service were to combine the strengths of these individual small government services, these issues would be dealt with more quickly and more appropriately, especially when we deal with these issues in the government procedure. The proposal, which is currently in coordination with the Office of the Government of Law, if we find that the systemic basis is for this, we will also submit for further consideration, in particular further discussions with members of the nationalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. I'm afraid these assurances will not be enough to appease the national community. It is afraid that such a merger may lead to the divorce of the specific role played by the Office of Nationality at a time when minorities are subjected to some pressure or loss of funds, as was the case with the last budget rebalancing. The feeling is that all of them, including these systemic solutions, will eventually be affected. That is why I hope, and from this last part of your response, I also understand that nothing will be adopted without discussions with the directly interested, that is, with the self-government communities. I call on you to actually take into account the principle of consent, the principle of acceptability by directly interested parties. These are communities which are constitutional and are mentioned in specific articles, which are also based on international agreements. This specification is probably important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador, for your warning. I must say that even in the first talks I had with the two Members, I mentioned this possibility and also said that all the solutions would be coordinated with representatives. I have to re-emphasize here. See, when we met at the General Secretariat of the Government on the topic of the 2009 State Budget, more than 20 people met at the meeting because it is so fragmented that individual offices deal with some 100,000 programming resources. These are the facts. You have two choices. One is that, in saying, we "hold" and we have individual offices that sometimes don't even know what individual offices do. On the other hand, these offices, both the Office of Nationality, the Office of Religious Communities, the Office of Equal Opportunities, do not provide adequate protection to individuals when it comes to the issue of their infringements, if you wish, of particularities. I therefore assess that by setting up a government service - and a government service run by a director of the government service, they have a stronger role in government procedure than individual offices - to ensure and strengthen protection, it is true to prevent violations of the principle of equal opportunities and of all rights, which go both through the constitution and under existing legislation both to national communities and to other communities involved in this, such as religious communities as all other personal characteristics. And the fundamental question is whether, at the end of our mandate, we will end up with three more, four more, in saying, 'do': for young people, older ones, I don't know who else, but we will have a strengthened government service to deal with this issue. Some countries have special ministers for this. For example, Norway: The Minister for Equal Opportunities, which covers another part of the social affairs and the fundamental question is whether, for example, we will divide the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs into three ministries, whether we keep this ministry as one ministry and we will also have a government service, which forms on one side of the policy and monitors what departments work on individual issues, divided into many cities. We have the Office for the Protection of Secret Data in the General Secretariat, but at the same time we have the Defence Preparations Service within the General Secretariat. The integration of these two services is simple and completely possible and means, above all, if you want, not only rationalisation, but more efficient work. And with these little government services, the story is similar. The funds are not shrinking, resources are pooling, resources are being rationalised, and I believe, above all, that the work of such a government service to ensure equal opportunities and all personal characteristics will be much more effective than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will raise a question with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I ask the following questions from the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior regarding the provision of security in the courts: How is security provided in the courts, both in the courtroom itself and outside the courtroom, in relation to the parties and witnesses in the courts, the judicial staff and others present? What about the powers of security officers and the police to ensure the security of the courts in, outside and outside the courtroom? A while ago, we witnessed an incident in the Ljubljana court, which shocked the Slovenian public when members of the Romani family Strojan attacked the witness and wounded the witness even more easily. In doing so, at least some media outlets have reported that the security guards did not restrict the authority to interfere with the fight. Does that mean we'll be shooting next time and the guards will just watch? In what way, and how must security respond, and how quickly? I also wonder: How is it possible that, according to the incident, the police were informed about this only an hour after the event and, in fact, the process continued? Is this in accordance with all the rules? Like I said, the witness was even wounded in the fight. And I also wonder: Were there any proceedings against Mrs Strojanov, who also started the fight? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. With regard to security in the courts in general, I can say that it is provided by both security guards and in certain situations by police officers and guards, or by judicial officers, when they are present when they accompany the accused or the accused. This security policy in the courts is systematic. It is therefore a regular function and a planned function. It is true, however, that occasional cases require more stringent action, and we face two situations in practice. One is when the judge or the President of the court assesses that a security situation could arise and then requires pre-trial assistance or the security service itself, which is before the court, or also the police. However, another situation is when the judge does not consider that such special protection would be necessary and a security incident occurs. In such a situation, of course, it depends on who is in the immediate vicinity. We do not have a system in Slovenian courts, as in some other courts in other countries where there is a permanent presence of a security officer in the hearing room when the main hearing is held. Thus, security itself is guaranteed by this physical protection. The powers conferred by security guards are all from warning, identification of persons, surface checks of persons, luggage, vehicles, prevention of access to unauthorized persons, the use of locking facilities, the use of physical force to secure life, human health and property, the detention of a person until the arrival of the police, the carrying and use of weapons when it comes to securing the lives of persons and the deterrence of a direct attack and the security assistant himself in the hearing room. These security measures are then supported by technical protection. This technical protection covers everything from anti-fragile systems to the system of movement control, luggage control, alarm systems in the courts, in particular the so-called "panic" switch, which essentially alerts the judge to the problem and, in such a case, to the immediate intervention of the security guard. Of course, it depends on the size of the court. In larger courts where larger areas are concerned, this response time of the security guard is slightly worse than in smaller courts. Then there are the fire control systems, which are now being used up-to-date and installed on the courts, of course, and the Ministry of Justice has certain powers to re-establish this security system in the direction if only possible, if financial conditions allow us, as they know in the US and in part also in Spain, a system called US court-martial, where we have a special security service that deals fully with all these security aspects. To conclude, the Ministry is also preparing a specific operational plan of action with the police, which will be the basis for protection and action in such cases as you have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you. The secretary would like to see you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Let me just fill out the minister for a minute. The police respond when they are informed of a safety event, then by intervention and a certain number of police officers. In other words, when considering the security situation of a particular area, it is meant that in some areas the court is a court and that it adapts its activities by observing, by patrolling police officers. However, where there is a suspicion of a criminal offence that may be committed at individual main hearings before a court, it shall, together with the court, plan measures to ensure the safety of the individual trial. With regard to the specific case you mentioned. The police were informed after a while. That's when she responded. She was at the scene in nine minutes. There was no more incident back then. The victims were then invited to make a motion for prosecution. That's what they did. The police thus acquired a damaged list, video surveillance footage, and continue to identify all suspects. Police officers will press charges against suspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u85	I thank the Minister for what he said, but the President of the Senate has asked for additional protection and in fact there have been two additional guards. In addition, Mrs Strojanov was not charged. She was there as a public, and probably in this case, if something like this happens, it's quite incomprehensible that then she's still after the interruption, after an hour this representative of the public, who is obviously dangerous, or how to say, may cause some re-fight, still present at the hearing. For me, I'm going to say it's pretty strange, because as far as I know, the judge has the opportunity to remove those who interfere with the treatment or who could cause any disturbance in that regard. Madam Secretary answered me. Apparently, there will be some proceedings against Mrs. Strojan. However, I wonder: Is not a court-martialed fight also considered a pity for the court, since, at last, we can expect similar cases again in the courts? I think the court has to say that too and have some relationship, or we will soon have various incidents in the courts. Please complete your answer here. Was the witness able to continue the procedure if she was wounded, as the minister said, and the police obtained data on the injuries?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you. Can I help you, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u87	You're right. The judge or any judge shall have the possibility to decide that the removal of a person from the hearing room is required if he or she considers that this could interfere with the course of the hearing. Why the decision of the judge, as it was, was taken in this particular case, I do not know. That wasn't your basic question either, so we didn't specifically check it out. In this case, however, something else appeared - that the court, at least in particular, Ljubljana, did not immediately inform the Ministry of Justice of this event, although it would be necessary to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, all courts will once again point out that they will do so as soon as possible. Also because we have an employee at the Ministry who is a specialist in this area and can advise immediately on what measures to take in the event of a security problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you. Madam Secretary, can I help you? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u89	I don't think there should be an event like this at all, which suggests that we probably don't have that much security. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on the reply of the Minister and the Minister. I would like to add, however, because you have now given some more information whether the Ministry will then act against the court if it does not inform you of this, as it should by law, as you yourself have said. And it's even more strange that the police then did a house investigation with the witness instead of with those who caused the incident. Well, I don't know if that just indicates that you wanted to act and help the witness. I propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you. The reply of the Minister and Minister to Mrs Jerajeva's question, or the initiative to discuss the answer, will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 21 April 2009. Mr Luka Juri will now ask the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the coworkers and associates and the government team and a nice greeting to the minister! In the past year, there has been a case where two municipal councilors have been violated the right of resignation. Despite the fact that almost a year ago, an old resignation statement was still not resolved, but a substitute congregation councillor could not take its place. There was a situation where the councillors whose saints had resigned were deprived of a substitute councillor and then a suitable number of municipal councillors according to the election result. I believe that this is a grave violation of electoral law and electoral rights by a majority in the municipal council, which does not allow for the discharge and confirmation of the substitute municipal council. More specifically, it is the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper. What is even more problematic is the fact that one of these councillors was later elected as a municipal councillor at the replacement elections in Izola. In spite of the legal provisions, he is currently a municipal councillor in Cyprus and in Izola. Let me add that not only did the municipal council with the findings and the decision on the resignation of the two councillors delay, but after the decision on the decision had been ordered by the Administrative Court, the municipal council rejected the finding, which, by its very nature, was merely a finding. That's why I want to know: Does a councillor or a councillor have the right to resign from his office without having to be confirmed by the congregation or city council in question? Can the municipal council reject a finding on the resignation of a saint and thus effectively prevent him from being replaced or prevented by a voter? I also want to know: Is it possible in Slovenia to be a municipality councilor or a councillor in several municipalities at the same time? If possible, what is the state doing to prevent abuses in this area? In the end, I want to know: Is the minister considering that, due to the possible abuse of the institute of a finding on the resignation of a municipal councillor or a saint, she would change the procedures currently in place in the field of the discharge of the appointment of a new councillor or a councillor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the question. In accordance with Article 37a of the Law on Local Self-Government, the resignation of a member of the municipal council is one of the reasons for the early termination of his term of office. The term of office shall expire on the date on which the municipal council finds that there is a reason for the early termination of the term of office. In this case, when the congregation council finds that a member of the congregation council has resigned. The finding is a formal basis for replacing a member of the municipal council in accordance with the law, with a new one, with a list of candidates of the same name. The municipal council cannot refuse to adopt a finding on the early termination of the mandate, as it is only a matter of determining the fact laid down by the law. Such conduct would be illegal in this case. In the event that the municipal council does not adopt such a decision, a member of the municipal council may request legal protection before the competent administrative court, which shall determine the illegality of the conduct of the municipal council, and in this case the administrative court may return to the municipal council for a legal decision, but may also decide on a substantive decision, that is to say, the matter itself, as it has already done in the case of the Roma councillor in the New City. And if the municipal council, even in this case, did not respect the decision of the administrative court and would not confirm the finding, what happened in the case of the municipality you are referring to, anyone expressing a legal interest may again request protection in the administrative court, which will be re-judged in one way or another. In the event that the municipal council persists in its illegal conduct even after a second decision in the administrative court, there is also the possibility that the law allows that this may be the reason for the initiation of the procedure for the early discharge of the mayor and the early dissolution of the municipal council, provided that it is determined that such a measure alone could provide and protect local self-government in the municipality. On the question of whether they can be members of the municipal council in two municipalities in Slovenia at the same time, I answer you that there are no such options in Slovenia, as there are no options in other European countries, as citizens can only run where they also have their permanent residence. The case of the electorate being elected in two municipal councils cannot therefore come because the candidacy in a municipality where he does not have a permanent residence is eliminated on an official basis and in the process of running. However, legal remedies in this regard are provided throughout the electoral procedure. With regard to the amendment of the legislation in view of the abuse of the Institute of the finding, I believe that there is no need to amend the legislation in this case, since appropriate legal protection is provided, as previously mentioned, and that the way to ensure the legality of the work of the municipal council is left to the judiciary in this case and in this area, in accordance with the Slovenian legal order.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for an extensive and extensive answer. I would like to add that the Administrative Court has already ruled on this case by rejecting the appeal of two municipal councilors that it does not wish to rule instead of the municipal council. And that at the moment in Slovenia we have a case where the municipal councilor has been a good half year at the same time municipal councilor of Izola Municipality and municipal councilor of the Municipality of Koper. That's why I want to know: Do you think, even in view of the most extreme possibilities that you have mentioned, that intervention by your service is necessary in this case? And: Do you believe that these judicial routes should continue, perhaps even to the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u97	Since I do not know these additional details, I would certainly advise that we use all the legal means available in this country to protect the rights of citizens who run in this case for members of the municipal council or who want to exercise the right to run in another municipality and to obtain appropriate municipal councilors in the first congregation. First of all, I would advise this institution and only if it really turned out that these institutions are not satisfactory would it be worth considering defining the procedures under the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, do you want to ask a question despite the Minister's absence?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u100	Here you go. You will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u101	Yeah, the question is content, not people who are or aren't. Well, to begin with, to break this monotonousness, I'm glad that in nine years I don't remember seeing more ministers in front of me than ministers, which I like; I just love the ladies sitting there, and I know them well. The question is very simple and I will start by saying, Mr President, that I will also ask for an oral answer. The question is: How does the Ministry of the Economy intend to act in cases where entrepreneurs voluntarily and unjustifiably publish the liquidations of healthy businesses or businesses operating positively? I explain the question with a few questions and arguments. First: To the extent that the balance of the state budget and several hundred million euros in aid provided and demonstrated by this country, if so-called modern entrepreneurs under A are not obliged to accept, so they are not obliged to accept this aid, and under B, they do not want to accept the aid that this country and this government are preparing with packaged measures, seeking money, together giving it to: "Besides entrepreneurs, we are helping you." And they say, "We don't want this help, we're gonna throw the workers on the road. Who's the state protecting?" An additional supplementary question or an explanation to the original question: Either the newly baked capitalist, I will read phonetically, and the "managers" don't know what they're called, who just want profit. Before the economy flourished, it was "cassified" by exploiting workers, a huge profit was made and put in their pocket. As they now see that this recession has barely begun to come the second year, they want this same profit through the sale of companies that are healthy. Who, then, is this country protecting? Either these managers or this country will once realize that it has to protect workers who only want to work, even for 500 euros. They work for 500 euros, but they want to work, to create new value with their work. Who is this country protecting? In any event, I would stress that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and all other services will be given to these workers, in any event. If a modern businessman throws them on the road without excuses, they will be at the back of this country. The old river says we have to work in a crisis. And I'm asking for the end, and who should do it if managers throw them on the road?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you. Would you like the minister to answer you orally at the next meeting? Yeah, okay, I get it. He'll answer at the next session. The Minister of Economy, although absent, also wants to ask Mr Darko Menich a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting. Despite the absence of the Minister, I would like to ask a question and also expect an answer at the next meeting, perhaps a further supplementary question later. The question is: Is the national energy programme in Slovenia in line with commitments such as the Kyoto Agreement and the directives of the European Union, that is to say with the climate energy package? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you. As I understand it, the Minister will answer you in writing. Do you want your lips?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u105	I'd like an oral one, because then I'd have another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u106	Mr Franc will ask the Minister of Transport a question, which is also absent. Do you want to ask a question anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't ask a question, but I'd like a written answer to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thanks. It's gonna happen. Mr Marjan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Economy, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nicely hailed minister, ministers! Messengers and Members! In accordance with Articles 240 and 242 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am submitting an oral question to Mr Mate Lahovnik at the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. More and more from the media, as well as personally, from all of Slovenia I am being called by economists to see more and more bankruptcys of companies. Even companies that might still be able to operate at the end of the day, but prefer to make decisions and bankrupt businesses for certain reasons, as previously announced by the fellow Member, Mr Bogdan Barovic. My specific question: How many companies in the Republic of Slovenia went bankrupt from 1 January to today? How many workers were employed in these companies? I will not ask the question back from October or September until December so that there are no excuses for the previous government. So I asked the question from 1 January to today, how many companies have gone bankrupt and how many workers have left these companies on the road. I would like, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to request the oral reply of the Minister at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thanks. It's gonna happen. Mr Guido Kres will now ask a question from the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! Dear fellows! On 26 March 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the annual management plan for the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for the public administration and for the judicial authorities. I have been warned and, as an example, I refer to the situation where the list of decrees also contains the parcel of use of the Barjanski travnik, which, under the Law on Public Funds, belongs to the local community and is defined on the surface of the spatial acts of the municipalities as an unburied building plot. In particular, it is plot number 415/66, an area of 11,4 hectares in the municipality of Ig. There is a possibility that there may be more of such cases and similar cases. Dear Minister and Minister, I'd like to ask you: Why is it that the Ministry of Public Administration should place on the list of the State Property Ordinance a property that should have been transferred to municipal property long ago under the provisions of the Public Fund Act? Why has this parcel not been passed on to the congregation property in all this time? And how can a situation arise that a property classified in the State Property Regulation is defined as a Barian meadow with a resultant low sales value, and its actual use of the spatial acts of the municipality is an unburied building plot, the resulting value of which is at least 20 times higher? Here, the thought may arise that the matter is so purposeful. And it is not my desire that you or you in the future have to answer the unpleasant questions here at the National Assembly in similar cases. Well, to conclude. Who is responsible for this situation after you or your opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you. Madam Secretary, can I help you? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Public Administration is not competent and does not check the actual and legal circumstances of real estate that are included in the decree but only collects proposals from individual national authorities and prepares a single material for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The properties on which you ask, these are the partial numbers 415/66 and 415/67, the Cadastral Municipality of Ig, were included in the decree you quoted, at the request of the Ministry of Justice, which currently has these two parcels on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia in management. The decree, as it is placed in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, is in fact only an act which means that the availability procedures, which are: sale, exchange, free removal, can at all begin. Therefore, it is only necessary that the operator of an individual property be able to initiate, for example, the sale procedure, in which case the Ministry of Justice, within the current year, to initiate appropriate procedures. In the event that, in subsequent procedures, the preparation for sale itself is determined that all conditions of availability, i.e. sales, are not fulfilled, such a procedure shall be terminated. And in this case, in the case of these two properties, that's probably what's going to happen. Although we had little time and the municipality of Ig sent a very precise explanation on Friday, more precisely than your question, the Minister of Agriculture will explain why this can happen. As a result of such a formal application, the value of the property is only assessed in cases, informationally, not taking into account whether it is building land that is not built, only after catastronomic use, and the operator has merely stated this amount in an informative manner. In the course of the sale proceedings, the court expert must then determine the real estate value. I would like to take the floor with the Minister of Agriculture, because I think he will be very pleased with your interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you so much for asking. Madam Minister, part of the answer has already been given. The question referred to the annual real estate management plan, the property of the State. In fact, this has nothing to do with the real estate sale programme adopted by the Council of the Funds each year. In respect of the envisaged sale of the building land, plot number 415/66, k.o. The Ig, which is included in the Annual Plan Decree, had real property, is therefore intended for later sale. And now I can inform you that the plot was created on the basis of the plot of the original plot 415/1, k.o. Ig, which was in condition on day 11. 3. 1993, means the date of the adoption of the Act on the deposit in the area of unpaved building land in plot number 415/66 and in the second part in parcel number 415/67, as agricultural land. A contract will be concluded with the Minister of Justice, after a plot has been made, to transfer the outstanding parcel 415/67 under Article 14 of the Agricultural Land Fund Act to the management of the Fund, while Lot 415/66 will remain in the administration of the Ministry. Notwithstanding the fact that Lot 415/66 will remain in the administration of the Ministry, this is, in our opinion, up to [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kres, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u117	No, no, no. I'd like to thank you for your answers. I'm happy with the answers, and I think we'll all be watching it together as we need to and we'll come to a conclusion that will be right for both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kampush is not here. Mr Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, the Ministry under your leadership and you, Madam Minister, have demonstrated in the last month, with human resources and political solutions in the field of media policy, that the media in general, especially public institutions, with new legislation and new staff, under strict ideological supervision, and that there will be institutionalisation of universal pressure on editors and journalists. This objective also violates the legal solutions, the Constitution and the rules. Thus, you have passed through the Rules of Procedure of the Commissions to appoint a new commission to assess co-financing projects without the previous Commission being resolved. When appointed to the expert commission for the preparation of the Media Law and the RTV Act, Slovenia was far from respecting the criteria of autonomy, equal representation and expertise. You have released a representative of the Association of Journalists and Publishers, there is no expert from the general professional management of RTV among the members, you prefer journalists without education from experts. The journalist, Mrs Plesnik Pučko, told us in the column in Dnevnik how your recruitment for the members of the Human Resources Accreditation Council for Culture and Justice is taking place; I am grateful for this disclosure. Here too - I must say that the journalist does not hide this - that the basic criterion is ideological hatred of the opposition and other thinkers. A journalist, in sharp contrast to article 63 of the Constitution, promotes anti-constitutional intolerance, as the opposition parliamentary party excluding Stigmatises as, I quote, "that poor group of intellectually malnourished poor people". I want to know: Have you responded to such an exasperation of hatred and intolerance? I also ask: Did rematchism have a fundamental bearing on all these appointments, human resources solutions, lawmaking? At least that's how experts write and identify, and this ideological intolerance is one of the main criteria. I'm asking you: What does the so-called guidelines for the preparation of media legislation for dedicated lawmakers say, in fact, the almost complete elimination of the right to object is being prepared? Is censorship really reintroduced in a sophisticated way?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I have already seen whether there is any minister here because I did not know whether you are referring to them because it is so full of fiction. That's why I'm going to tell you at the outset: I'm not in violation of any law, but even less of the Constitution. I'm not doing any human resources, but I'm not doing any political clean-up. With regard to the commission, the circle that your question revolves around, let me answer the following. Each Minister and each Minister shall have the right and the legal basis to choose a commission for certain issues, whether related to legislation or to any other matter within the ministerial work. In our case, it protects and regulates our fundamental law or the statutory law of culture, the so-called ZUIK, from which the rules also come. That's why I have my commission in every area. I am not the first, and my predecessors have had them, and these committees help to decide on the calls, help decide on the policies and help the minister and advise him on other solutions. More. Even where he didn't formally sign them, I introduced them. The last, for example, is an informal commission that advises in the field of architecture, urbanism, landscape protection and I call it "home for space". In the case of a commission or expert commission dealing with the main framework for the creation of the amended media law and the amended law on RTV Slovenia, we have a very broad group at the Ministry of Culture. We have invited representatives of certain institutions, as well as representatives of the profession, who have the most professional behaviour and are still the highest authority in the field of media law. Wider. The invitations were different. Even those you quote and didn't recognize on this committee. As regards the representatives of RTV Slovenia on this committee, because it is also a matter of amending the law on RTV Slovenia, which we have put into the government programme, let me tell you that I have not chosen them here myself. Mr Guzej, director of RTV Slovenia, who was quite soon after I came to the ministry, the ministry also visited, gave himself the name that is now on this committee. I accepted it, and I respected it. In short, it's already our way of understanding. Of course, I'm promising myself a lot from these committees, because I'm sure we're not all perfect, all-knowing. Above all, we have an employed handful of people in the media department, and we are almost at a minimum, and we cannot deal with such a difficult question, for which there are not even certain answers within the European Union today, in Slovenia alone. That is why, Mr Jerovšek, this is neither a human resource nor a political decision: the Commission, which acts but is not a commission, is an expert commission, is broad, very responsible and professionally absolutely competent. And I trust her not only does this commission, of course, the ministerial team. The problem is that we have little time for such a broad topic, a change of two very responsible laws, such as the RTV Slovenia Act and the Media Act, which is still stuck in a directive on which, by the way, there was no word in the previous mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u123	I would be naive to expect the Minister to answer what I asked. This has been avoided and it is all the more clear that the autonomy and independence of the media and journalists are virtually eliminated and that those experts who advocate autonomy and plurality of the media are already excluded from human resources arithmetic. Madam Minister, you have explained that this is being done in other areas of culture as well, and in fact there are many more of these cases. One of the cruelest and worst cases is the expulsion due to ideological exclusiveness, the expulsion of prominent publicist Mark Crnkovic from the position of director of the Media Directorate, although you have already informed him. He went through the commission here, you informed him about it, but what sin did Mr. Crnkovic commit? You excommunicated him after he wrote in the column that he agreed that the worst crimes against humanity could not be maligned and could not have the honour of the street. And of course, it was a total alarm, including part of civil society, strictly targeted, ideologically, and you immediately accepted it. I'd really like you to answer the questions. Additional impatience has proved to be, or even, the incrimination of people on the Committee on Culture, where your Members have then said that you have written conclusions for Mrs Potrato for a committee where the supervisory committee and the people have been criminalised. And I'm really asking: Is this rematching the only tool under the conditions for your human resources solutions?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u125	Mr Jerovšek, sometimes I don't fully understand you, because you don't have such clear questions or vaguely articulated. So I'm going to try to answer the three that you've just set up. In short, why is it not within this expert commission dealing with points of reference for the preparation of both amendments to the laws, including the associations of journalists. I am alone in the public eye; and as I can see, you are informed of what appears in public to be written or more pronounced; you have also invited the founding member of this association, Mr Makarovič, who is a member of this group. More. Not only is he a founding member of the publicist association, but he is also a member of the committee. Now, I don't know where all this "kind of information" is coming from. "Said, showed" - I think the shape here works. Look. The invitation to tender for the Director of the Media Directorate has not been revoked. You're asking me yourself why the invitation to tender was cancelled. The invitation to tender was not cancelled. Among the candidates who have been assessed by that special competition commission, the official council itself, expertly qualified and qualified and offered as suitable for the position, the Minister or Minister shall, at his discretion, choose those who appear to be the most appropriate or most appropriate, if any. If the Minister, the Minister, believes that no one is ideal for their performances, wishes, if he is not the most perfect and most suitable, then in this case, he may decide not to choose anyone. And I did it myself. More. We immediately called for a new competition to win the most suitable candidate. And that's it. Everything else can be the fruit of some, of course, less and more entertaining writings that fill less and more interested ears. In the case of Kas, which you are most likely to talk about in the first part of the question and why some were not selected in this Kas. Unfortunately, some were not chosen out of some doubt that there might be a conflict of interest. If someone is a journalist, perhaps in such a role, when sitting in Kas for the field of culture and justice, he would run into a conflict of interest. This has led to the withdrawal that I have agreed to, but unfortunately, because I very, very much appreciate the lady as a columnist and journalist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, in the end, confirmed her support for this spread of hatred and intolerance, after which I specifically asked you what is written here. However, in other parts, you have deceived the public and you are being misled, Madam Minister. See, you are misinterpreting or misleading explanations why you did not select Mr Crnkovic, why you cancelled your choice. I'll tell you how it works when it comes to crimes against humanity. In Slovakia, a literary magazine editor published a few songs by Radovan Karadzic. The Society of Librarians immediately shut him down for one year. In our case, a writer who belongs to your department strongly supports this, and also some parties, you support this defamation of crimes in the age of humanity. It seems to me that this kind of support, this kind of behavior of culturers, is egregious. In all the other answers, you have been so misleading that I suggest that a general discussion be held on your incomplete response, how to frame yourself, what criteria, what ideological exclusivity is required for candidates in your department. For this leads to this abolition of the autonomy and independence of journalists, leading to very serious consequences in the field of culture. And I think you're actually institutionalizing the return to gray years, in some gray period that we've already put through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. Mr László Göncz will put a question to the Minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs and to the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, Madam Minister, other ministers and ministers! Your Honors are here! The government is clearly paying attention and making great efforts to alleviate the economic and financial crisis, while trying to ensure a sustainable living or social situation through its decisions. Some of the measures taken so far have been positive and others have been less affected by the rapid change in circumstances, as they would say in the jargon. Despite different government forecasts, the financial - economic crisis has the worst impact on less economically developed, social and demographically vulnerable areas, which is particularly true for the whole of North-Eastern Slovenia. An extremely critical situation has arisen in the Pomur region, where the situation in the border and ethnically mixed area is already alarming. On this occasion, I will not specifically mention the problem of Mura or the extraordinary events surrounding the bankruptcy of Pomurka. My question is thus not directly concerned with social measures, although it is very closely linked to them, but I am putting it on the ground that those areas are still lagging behind compared to the more developed regions of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite some positive exceptions relating to rare investments in certain centres, the overall economic, social situation in the Pomura-Dura region is, unfortunately, even worse than it was in autumn 2008. It is precisely because of the dimensions of the economic and financial crisis that the planned projects need to pay much more attention to the developmental orientation of the weaker areas. A few months ago, it was stressed that the Government will make great efforts to ensure more coherent regional development, which could be achieved through potential development investments in the northeastern areas of the country. Now we can see that most of the government's energy is directed towards the resolution of the crisis, in fact, to putting out the fire. This is clearly necessary, but I am sure that with additional efforts and an accelerated development approach in the area of tourism and where we can at least correct the situation a little bit. So, I'm asking you: How will the government try to prevent the most vulnerable, especially the northeastern parts of Slovenia from lagging behind even more intensively with short-term development programmes? Ter: How will it also carry out more coherent regional development across the country during the time of the economic crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you. Is Mr. Secretary going to answer first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Göncz, since we're going to answer together and I only have five minutes, I'm going to be very brief. When it comes to the Government's Development and European Affairs Service, it is its primary task to ensure proper preparation, implementation and, if necessary, amendments to the basic development documents. The development documents currently in force in the Republic of Slovenia and under which national and other budgets are also planned or implemented are the 2005 Development Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2007-2013 National Development Programme and, inter alia, the Resolution on Development Programmes, which is complemented by the 2008-2010 National Reform Programme. These documents define priorities in the area of individual programming definitions, both investment and others, and define in their own way consistent regional development in Slovenia, in this case also those regions which are behind the average of the whole country. At the moment, the Service is preparing appropriate amendments and additions to the development documents, in particular the reduction of their number, their greater interrelationship and, above all, the greater effectiveness of these programmes and documents in the budgetary implementation documents, where we find that the connection between these two sides of the same problem has been relatively poor in Slovenia for a considerable number of years. The Government will therefore be presented with a revised national reform programme for the period 2008-2010, supplemented by a resolution for the period 2007-2023. In particular, the Government will first be proposed and then the National Assembly will be amended the way in which the state budget is designed and adopted, which will be programme-oriented towards the objectives, which means that the National Assembly will address not as much of an individual budget item as the content, quality and orientation of programmes, sub-programmes and projects, and thus, on the basis of indicators and criteria, it will also be easier to determine whether individual programmes are implemented in accordance with projections. On this basis, certain additions to the regional development documents will also be made, more to be said by a fellow minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. In order to complement my colleague, the economic crisis will also require some new emphasis on the implementation of regional development programmes. The government service for local self-government and regional policy is therefore planning to call on the development regions in May to draw up new implementation plans. These new implementation plans will also provide an opportunity for substantive changes in the implementation of regional development programmes and their priorities. Developing regions will be offered the opportunity to focus on the most important projects they see on the one hand as an opportunity to deal effectively with the crisis, and on the other hand as an opportunity and opportunity for the development restructuring of the region or to create new development opportunities within the region. In this regard, in view of the achievement of those objectives, which have already been mentioned by the Member, it is said, above all, that the problems of economic development and the creation of new jobs should be eliminated. In preparing the implementation plans, the government service will also provide adequate financial support as well as professional assistance to the regions. At the same time, we see the implementation plans as an opportunity in the framework of the programme funding mentioned by our colleague Gaspari, that we will also, through the implementation plans, have a partnership between the countries, regions and municipalities, and through such a way of financing, also ensure a more coordinated implementation of the regional development programmes together with the resources and thus support the activities that will be endorsed by the regions as priorities for overcoming the crisis and for faster economic development and greater competitiveness. And in this context, Pomurje and Podravje also have their opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. There's only one short question I'd like to ask: Do you expect that all that has been said now, with a change, I will say, long-term and medium-term documents and objectives that the results will be present in the second half of the current year, or perhaps even earlier, or are all of these substantive designs actually more focused in the long term than Minister Gaspari has pointed out?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u137	Yes, we certainly expect partial results already this year, mainly in the context of new applications and the possibility of using resources offered both in the context of the crisis resolution package and other development activities. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that there are also a number of projects under way in these two regions, namely, one hundred and ten regional projects in Pomurje, two hundred and fifty-one in Podravje, which are financed mainly by cohesion policy, and also offer an opportunity and opportunity to address and partially solve the problems facing the regions now. Above all, these projects and the changed conditions for the implementation of these projects are expected to have more immediate or, at some point, immediate effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr Marijan Križman will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, my question concerns the agricultural communities of Slovenia, which cause considerable problems for the individual because of the inadequacy of legislation. Agrarian communities shall not operate, no activity shall be carried out in relation to their operation. The problems that arise are currently insurmountable. Unsolved open problems have already arisen at the time of the establishment, due to the insufficient clarity of the Law on the Re-establishment of the Agrarian Community and the return of their property and rights. On the basis of this law, no agrarian communities have been established in some villages, and these lands have remained undistributed or have moved into the management of the Common Lands Fund or the municipalities. The villagers, who had already owned Jusov, had no opportunity because they were not sufficiently familiar and informed in writing to rejoin the agricultural communities. There are also unresolved problems in succession because the procedures have not been carried out. To shorten my time, however, I must say that this problem is very present in Rakitovci, Hrastovje, Koper Municipality, where the villagers are agrarian communities that want to build or expand the area of construction on land owned by an agrarian community that borders on their property. The construction area would spread along their land to the land of the agrarian community for the purposes of regulating the yard and further building of rural tourism and so on. Most villagers of the agricultural community support this, and the minority opposes it, creating disputes, unfulfilled goals that would help to solve rural and rural tourism. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: In what way do you plan to ensure that agrarian communities are not a burden but the advantages of our countryside? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u141	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Member for the question. With regard to the reorganisation of agrarian communities and the return of assets to which they have been supported, all of this is governed by the Law on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights. This was adopted in 1994, and on the basis of this law, as many as 607 agrarian communities were organised. Many of them are doing well enough, I might say. Possession of those who see their active role in this. At that time, the law set a seven-year deadline until 2001, in which members of the agrarian community could claim the return of their property. In view of the long deadline for the enforcement of asset recovery and the large number of organised and registered agrarian communities, we believe that people have actually been well informed of the law. The Act also provided that, in the event that members of the agrarian community or their heirs do not enforce the return of the assets held, this property shall, of course, become the property of the municipality in whose territory the agrarian community lies. The municipalities must offer this property for free use and for the management of the village or local community. This has also happened in many cases. According to the law, the property is to be poured out to those who have been taken away. These are members of the former agrarian community and not existing. In the event that these persons are deceased, the request for restitution of the property was made by one of the heirs who also had to become a member of the newly established agricultural community. The heir also had to ensure that inheritance was instituted in court, and the heir could thus become a coowner of the returned property. The problem is in cases where this deadline has been delayed. In most cases, the asset has returned in the form of a co-ownership share. In this case, the owner may freely dispose of his co-ownership. In individual cases, property has returned as common property. In this case, according to co-ownership legislation, this is what you mentioned, the consent of all co-owners is necessary, which complicates the matter. Otherwise, it is possible to separate the common property, of course, only by agreement. If there is no agreement, then the court shall decide on the dissipation at the request of the members of the agrarian community. However, I agree with you that it is difficult to manage assets that are owned or shared by a larger number of persons if they do not have any common interest, economic or substantive. I must say that at the Ministry we have not been informed of major problems in the management of property returned to members of agrarian communities. Since the law does not regulate the management of returned property, of course, if we want to cut into this area, a new law should be drawn up to regulate this area, but lawyers believe that it is very difficult to interfere with the rights of existing property. In any event, the Ministry will examine this issue if it finds that there are opportunities and that it is necessary to deal with the specific law, it will also approach the preparation of an appropriate law for the benefit of all those operating in the agricultural community. It is pointless that, because of such problems, it is simply not possible for owners and co-owners of the agrarian community to have the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you. You want a supplement, Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you. I would just like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. I am particularly pleased that you allow the possibility that, however, lawyers will decide and take time to consider whether it is necessary to allow people anywhere, in this case on the coast where I am at home, to find the possibility that regardless of their sometimes ignorance or forgetfulness, I must also, unfortunately, say that today the next generation cannot round up its assets, cannot self-employed, for example, on rural tourism or anything like that. There is a lot of truth in your answer, especially in the first part, where you listed the legislation that directed everyone to do so. But sometimes human weaknesses are also inconsistent. And if there is anything we can do to help them, then it would be for us to help these people in self - employment, especially when it comes to rural areas. Thanks for the answer. And thank you for the open opportunity to go to new legislation at the very least.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister of Finance a question, which is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Minister and Ministers! Since the Minister is absent, I would ask you to answer my question orally at the next meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Given the increasingly worrying situation in international financial markets, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance was already adopted at the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with the support of most Members and Members. In addition to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, this new law has been the result of cooperation and the work of the former government in its departure, led by Mr Janez Janša, and at that time the most likely candidate for a mandate, and today the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. The amendment of the law allowed or provided an opportunity to increase the country's capital investments, to lend to banks and other financial institutions and to issue state guarantees. According to the amendment of the law, guarantees are granted exclusively to credit institutions in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Act established in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the beneficiaries of loans and capital investments are insurance, reinsurance and pension companies established in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the law allows these institutions to access liquid assets, thus contributing to the establishment of an interbank market and the maintenance of a stable Slovenian financial system. The assumption of the effectiveness of these measures was also an opportunity to act quickly. The measures are based on a mandatory assessment of the appropriateness and necessity of these measures by supervisory institutions. Where the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of documentation and on the basis of an assessment of the supervisory institution, determines that the credit institution fulfils the conditions for obtaining guarantees, it may propose to the Government that it decide on the issue of the guarantee by means of a decision. Depending on the type of measures, the extent of the aid and the reasons for the action, the Government may adopt restrictions on the payment of dividends in respect of the company’s leading persons, including options for shares in the company. Thus, the amendment of the Public Finance Act allows Slovenian banks access to the international banking market, their competitiveness and the security of their business. The provision of the amendment entered into force in November 2008 and the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Law provides: On the measures taken by the Government at least once every three months following the entry into force of the Public Finance Act, the National Assembly shall be informed. It has been five months since the adoption of the law, and I have not seen that the National Assembly is aware of this report. According to 240 and 242 [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you. The Minister will answer to you at the next meeting. Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler will ask the Minister of Economy a question, which is also absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I asked the Minister of Economy, Dr. Matey Lahovnik, the question: How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take care to monitor the implementation of contractual commitments by buyers of companies owned by the State and how will it act in the event of non-compliance? I wanted to illustrate this with two examples that are well - known to all. First one's next. The country sold 55% of the Slovenian steel industry to the Russian company Koks in March 2007 for EUR 105 million. For the price of the stock, EUR 190 had to be deducted. Most of the people at the time thought that the price was at least 2 times too low. As a result, many small shareholders were undisputedly severely injured. In this regard, the relevant proceedings are still under way. It is more than obvious that the country did not act as a good host on this sale. Does he at least now supervise under the new government if and how the buyer fulfils his contractual obligations? Or are workers who had to deal with shorter working hours and lower wages just on the burden of the country? Of course, the new owner washed his hands or washed his hands. Even worse is the sale of Iskraemec to the Egyptian company El Sewedy. The contract, which was unheard of by "scrolling" on behalf of the Soda and when signed by their two then presidents, is in breach of the buyer's loose contractual obligations by the new owner moving production to Egypt and in Kranj the workers are forgiven. How, then, do the Government and the department of department oversee and ensure the implementation of the contractual obligations of the buyers of companies that were owned by the majority of the state and how will they act when they find that they do not respect or even fake those obligations? I'd like to ask you a written answer to that question for my very interesting question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! This is a question, or initiative, which is actually posed by five Pomeranian Members, it is not an initiative of one political option, but an initiative of the region. It is a matter of introducing physiotherapy and healthcare programmes in Murska Sobota, on which more than 300 candidates have already applied to date, fulfilling and confirming an outstanding interest. The accredited institution of the European Centre of Maribor has prepared all the professional bases for the possible introduction of these two programmes. The needs are demonstrated, the development of the higher education centre and the conjunctural study programmes located in Murska Sobota have several aspects: the social dimension, the possibility of a study for many from the region, which would otherwise not have the opportunity to retrain and up to the qualification of young people when abolishing the labour intensive industry, the human development in the function of economic development of medicinal tourism and health and social care, the increased employment opportunities, the comprehensive development of the region, the fulfilment of the gaps in the deficit professions. But the key question to be asked is how to co-finance regular studies. The answer is only a concession from at least 60 students in each group, which is 120 regular students. The Murska Sobota programme has many comparative advantages over many other programmes. The initiative is in line with the strategic objectives and the concept of the development of the region to draw it out of this sadly bad state of underdevelopment. According to all indicators, we are lagging behind in the Pomur region in terms of educational structure, economic development and social problems. Demographic trends are so negative that we believe that, for example, the introduction of such programmes would contribute to many other areas and would be in line with the basic initiative of the world of the region that we need to make this situation better in any way, says at least one Slovenian average on the development of the region. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you so much for asking. See, in the 2009-2010 study year, these study programmes will not yet be implemented in Pomurje. Of course, it's not in the Ministry's jurisdiction. This is within the purview of higher education institutions themselves, and in public or licensed higher education institutions, as you have stated, the consent of the Government is required, but otherwise not. Today none of these public higher education institutions, you know that there are several, the Faculty of Health in Ljubljana, the Faculty of Health Sciences in Maribor, the Izola High School of Health, or a licensed health school, is said to be the High School for Health Care in Jesenica and the Novo mesto High School for Health, do not carry out their study activities in Pomurje. According to the information we have more indirectly at the Ministry, we also received material from you at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, a study of health care and physiotherapy at the dispersed unit in Pomurje in Murska Sobota was called for by the European Centre Maribor, a independent higher education institution based in Maribor. No concessions have been granted to this institution so far. If he receives it for the 2010-2011 study year, because for 2009-2010 it is, of course, too late or later, the government will decide. This depends on the professional basis as well as the financial framework. The fact is that in the rebalancing of the budget, which was adopted a month ago, we have made it very difficult to provide additional resources for the implementation of the concessional programmes of higher education in a very different and very broad-based manner in the past. Unfortunately, all conclusions are accompanied by a signing that they have no financial implications of more than €40,000, which is absurd, because we know that concessions are specifically for money. That was a big problem. We have managed to resolve this problem once for the grant agencies or the concession programmes. We hope that the Government will also listen to this in the rebalancing of this rebalanced budget, but we must be aware that further consideration of these concessions will also have to take account of this aspect, and no less of the aspect to which you point, which is linked to the region, to the development situation, to the demographic situation, to the state of employment. That's what the government will have before their eyes when they study it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now that's the case. The matter is essential for Members from the Pomur region in particular. As far as we are aware, money is not supposed to be exactly the basic problem that this could already be introduced in the 2009-2010 study year. Here it goes, I'd rather say, for political will or maybe there are other reasons that would not lead to what we set ourselves. We estimate that the establishment of the High School for Health Care and Physiotherapy would fulfil many gaps in the region in the area of higher education, the approximation of the possibility of education and the development of the profession and quality of life in the region, as it goes with the deficit professions throughout Slovenia, the institution's founder has a broader all-Slovenian character. For Pomurje, especially under the conditions of the termination of the labour intensive industry, this is a problem if you understand me. An exceptional opportunity for economic reconstruction in the region, in connection with tourism and service activities, especially health resorts. There is no region, Mr Minister, in Slovenia, where there would be so many health resorts, so much thermal water, so much development in this direction. In fact, in Pomour we see no other way than to develop based on thermal treatments, on health services, in this direction. I'm not going to tell you here what went wrong in other economic areas in Pomour. So, from this point of view, this should be a priority for your ministry. [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or, as you said, the government's priority. [[....]] We've been thinking about this question, we've taken this initiative to the President of the Government, but I think you're also competent and competent enough to talk about it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u155	The problem is that the two programmes you mention have not yet been included in the examination of higher education programmes. Information entries have been completed. All of this should have happened in the previous autumn in order to accomplish everything you say for the 2009/10 study year. And the government will continue when these formalities are regulated; you know that within the Higher Education Council or in relation to its decisions there are also some issues of a professional nature for which the Ministry is not competent and does not interfere. The procedure for accreditation of the programme is one thing for the Higher Education Council. The conditions for a qualified discussion of this concession to date have not been met. I'm not excluding this debate. The initiative will have to come from the agency. I have already had an agreed meeting, which was cancelled on the other hand, with Mr Toplak of this European Centre. The government will certainly take all the dimensions of the problem that you are pointing out into account when it decides to do so and see no reason for it to apply the severity that it has not exercised in many other cases. I've previously listed a number of institutions where more questions are asked than in this. The fact is, however, that objective circumstances at the end and the decision of the Government as a whole will be crucial for the operation of the green light for the concession.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u157	Yeah. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would also suggest that a discussion be held at one of the meetings of the National Assembly. We must not only look at the narrowness of the rules of higher education programmes, but rather at the broader meaning of the region's lagging behind and, above all, the intention that in all areas, both in education and in social, economic and social, we are trying to get the region out of this backwardness, which is already so obvious that it is actually sad for the whole country. That is why I propose, Mr Vice-President, that this be placed on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u158	On the proposal by Mr Györek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 21 April, in the framework of the vote. Mr Franz Bogovic asked the Minister responsible for development and European affairs. The Minister replied that he was not responsible for this question and proposed to address Minister Plosteiner. That is why we cannot now address this issue. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u159	Yeah. The question concerns the use of European funds. In view of the fact that I am also in the Committee on Local Self-Government, the Committee on the Economy, where we also had a presentation by future ministers, I have received a very clear message that, at the Office of the Government of the Republic for the Development of Local Self-Government, a large part of the responsibility for the use of European funds is being transferred to the Mag. Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs. That is why I thought that I would like to ask this question first of all with the other ministries, how things are going. Besides, I can ask you a question, and Mrs. Secretary will answer me another time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u160	The Minister is also prepared to answer your question in this case. Please set him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you so much for understanding. That is, as I have already said, at the presentations for the future minister, and otherwise we have talked a lot about the use of the funds that come from the European Union funds that are available to us. So after a good half year, the question came to me: What about the new calls, especially those concerning other ministries? The calls made at work, I think they have some continuity, and these programs are now being implemented. However, we miss calls for both those funds that can be used in the intermediate body, which are said to be in the Ministry of the Economy, for example, for economic zones, for economic centres, in the Ministry of Culture for the renovation of castles, where calls have been announced before, and still do not exist, in the ILO for the efficient use of energy, in particular the use of resources for the efficient use of public buildings, schools and similar matters, including cohesion projects, at the Ministry of Transport on the 3rd Development Axis. I myself have been monitoring these matters as mayor in the past period, and I can say that we have also made a great deal of funding available to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities for these things. It is said that we have prepared, for example, a building permit for the renovation of the Rajhenburg Castle, then projects in the field of economic centres, projects for the reconstruction of other castles, as I have already said. And we are now waiting for these calls to be possible, and we are assessing that, even in view of the better knowledge of the financial situation in the country and the need for the absorption capacity, both human and financial, to be transferred to the local community to a large extent to my profound belief. And if these funds are to be absorbed in these years, I think it would be right for these calls to be published. So I would like to ask: Which direction do these thoughts go so that we can make the most of it and start using it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I have given a formal warning to the National Assembly because Mr Bogovič addressed the question to me, although the decision to establish the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service made clear the areas of work in force. And the questions that followed then below concern precisely the areas covered by this service. Since Mr Bogovic said that we had spoken in presentations, hirings and other roles, he probably forgot that this change in governance had not been implemented and that the management body remained exactly as it had been in the previous government. Responsibility and powers have not changed in principle. What the Government for Development and European Affairs does is coordination in specific areas, but not in cohesion policy areas, but in the Lisbon strategy and development documents. However, we are well informed about what is happening in this area. And since the questions are of this kind, in some ways I can answer them in a more general way, but the colleague will probably give more detailed explanations if necessary. Unfortunately, I cannot give you this moment all the financial data, because the material that the Government adopted last Thursday at its meeting, which has an "internal" nature and would violate the rules that are in this area. If this is gonna be removed, it's not a problem. But I can tell you roughly in terms of what's going on and you'll understand just as well as if I told you the exact numbers. I can tell you that, despite everything from the state budget throughout the period from 2007 to now, it has been said two years since the previous composition of the government and since November 2008 the current composition has been paid out of the state budget for cohesion policies of EUR 235 million. At this point, this is said to be cumulatively, about two thirds of the funds remain unturned, unpaid from the European budget. We have set aside national funds, more than two thirds of which have not yet been implemented. They will be implemented when they are also reimbursed from the European budget. It's a very embarrassing situation. Unfavourable for a number of reasons that I would not now state in very detail because there is little time. However, the Government has already adopted 10 decisions in January and at its previous meeting further conclusions which, for the first time, seek to accelerate the use of national funds, which is not a problem, since all very good national funds benefit, to improve the method of preparing claims for reimbursement of these funds, where the main problem is the ISARR programme, you probably know it. This is an information system that does not work and unfortunately prevents the quality and rapid administration of documentation. It does not work from the very beginning, and therefore, in many cases, ministers implementing these programmes must implement these programmes manually. Another time. We note that if we look through ministries and through programmes that the situation is very different, however, there is a very large amount of non-return from the European budget at the level of the municipalities. Clearly, there are real problems in programming, particularly in implementing them and justifying the costs needed to require payment from the European budget. We have a very different situation following three operational programmes, the worst is the situation in operational programme three, that is, the cohesion fund, and environmental and transport projects, where most things are not ready for operational implementation of these projects mainly in the transport field. You know how long it takes in Slovenia to put a traffic project into space, let alone get all the relevant permits. For this reason, the Government has adopted a decision to implement a stock exchange of programmes and projects, so that it will move resources from programmes that do not produce sufficient quality results to programmes that, as the English say, "ready to go" and thereby accelerate the use of resources. It has also introduced the practice of temporarily implementing programmes with 100% European funding where European Union rules allow it. This relieves the state budget before funding or previous funding, and we go to projects that can immediately receive 100% of funding from European funds, as far as possible. Of course, on average, the participation of domestic resources requiring rules will have to be found in the end. This will anticipate certain funds from the European Union that could be used qualitatively in times of crisis for important investment projects. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u165	I'll make it up to you, so we can help each other find out more. Above all, I am interested in these new calls, or invitations, that we have all been expecting or announced together in some way. Effective energy use is one of those projects that I think is on the ground. According to last year's announcements I know widely across Slovenia that many municipalities are preparing with comprehensive school facilities, these are buildings that have been built in the 1970's, and are largely assembly facilities, which are completely inefficient. And that seems to me to be one of those measures that should be implemented as soon as possible. I think that through this deliberate division and the exploitation of investment potential at the local level and in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I think that this initiative could be done as soon as possible and also with such calls, I think that in fact, at this time, we would be able to do a lot of good in order to implement very quickly, very widely across Slovenia even a number of programmes. Since both of you are here with the Minister of Culture, I would like to ask: Is there something going on in the area of rebuilding cultural monuments, the Minister and I have already talked about it in the new year, or is there something going on here? During last year and now for two years there has been talk about one part of the castles owned by the state, being funded by the renovation of these castles, and the cultural facilities owned by private or municipal property being prepared for tenders. I think that this is also part of our heritage, which we would also activate with reconstruction and so do a lot of good and benefit from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you. Does the minister want more? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u167	This first part could be answered so much that the second package of crisis management measures also contains a range of resources for energy savings of public buildings, schools, hospitals and other facilities. This is also included in the rebalancing already adopted in the State budget and will probably be supplemented by this additional balance proposed by the Government to the National Assembly in May. There are no problems from this point of view. The problem is whether those who report programmes or projects are actually able to do so at the stage of their implementation also in accordance with the assumptions they have foreseen or have foreseen in their documents. We have the biggest problems with the fact that projects that have been reported are then seriously stopped in actual implementation for various reasons. Not only because of the state administration, but also because projects are overly prepared. But about the castles, I'd leave it to my colleague, and I'm not that informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot give the Minister a word because no question has been asked. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question, which is absent. You're still going to set it up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I also want an oral response to the next session. Otherwise, I intend to ask Dr. Igor Lukšić, Minister for Education and Sport: What measures or activities are you planning during the Slovenian Presidency of European schools - this presidency will take place in autumn and will last for one year - to ensure a more equal treatment of Slovenian language and Slovenian culture in the future and also in the light of the realization of the ideas of intercultural dialogue, including the language and culture of other smaller countries? What's this all about? In the National Assembly, we passed the European Schools Act in one of the previous mandates. These are schools for children employed in the European Union institutions. Subjects, organisations, financing, language of instruction and subjects shall be prescribed. Slovenian could be a learning language and could be a learning class if there were enough children for that. And this is exactly the problem that employees in European institutions face when they have to decide whether to enroll their children in European school or not. Given that the child for the Slovenian section of the European School is not enough, but if they are enrolled in a European school, they only have Slovenian as a learning class, five times after 30 minutes a week in the first class and then four times a school hour until the end of the primary school, that is five years. In a 7-year secondary school, Slovenia has three hours of schooling, and in the last two years, it can be chosen for higher-level Slovenian, which means that it is held as a 7-hour course. The question therefore arises: What is the language knowledge of children if I tell you that a child must be described in a school, and that in a foreign language, and just when he should have the most mother tongue, he must have it at least by this subject? This is not only a problem facing Slovenian children, but it is a problem for all those countries whose population is smaller and therefore fewer officials in European institutions. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I expect the Minister to make good use of his presidency and to draw attention to all these issues. But I expect him to explain what a vision of measures is. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you. The Minister will answer to you at the next meeting. Mag. Andrea Richter will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and to the minister! We'll probably end up sooner than we anticipated. My question, on the one hand, is traditional and on the other hand very topical, as today is a holiday and a large part of the world is also celebrating. Slovenia is the only transition country that consistently returns nationalised assets in full. The poor returns also mean shortcomings in the behaviour of property value, which Slovenia has returned to the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. New statistics, how much denationalisation has cost us in the past 18 years, are different. At least I don't know them well. And a special chapter is also compensation for the inability to use real estate from the filing of a denationalisation claim to the return of the property. The State Attorney’s Office, the State’s official representative, has provided information stating that so far the largest proportion of compensation has been received by the RCC. However, if I mention particularly before the good 30 years of the fact of Mr Rodet, who at the theological course in Ljubljana said that before World War II the church was too rich, the priest was often also an economic February, the monasteries were too rich, the bishops were spending holidays in castles. The church had assets that were not necessary to fulfill its mission, assets that were from the feudal era and that should have been abandoned to its own property and handed over to the poor. Mr Rode meant, of course, property, which is once again becoming church property. With these recent extraordinary sessions, and with constant mention, how much will the Slovenians, if we give up the assets for the acts that have been committed, be it of particular interest to know: How much or what was the value of the denationalisation refunds in the last decade, both money and material resources, as well as subsidies granted from the regular budget of the Ministry of Culture for activities, content and maintenance of certain monuments? Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you for the complex question, which is why I will present it to you, because three minutes are too little for ten years and all the statistics, which, by the way, is not perfect at all, and I will also provide you with the numbers on paper. Statistics are not perfect because sometimes investment in cultural monuments, which were or were owned by the RDC or other religious communities - by the way, investing in other religious communities is minimal - and those which are owned by the Republic of Slovenia. But for a little while. At the Ministry of Culture, approximately 1,014 requests for denationalisation have been submitted or withdrawn to date. The exact proportion of these contributions from the Roman Catholic Church is still not statistically clear. However, if statistics are kept at least from 1999 onwards, if we then ran into about 500 resolved and of these were recorded, say, 50 invested by church institutions, we can talk about at least a tenth per quantity, per unit. The value of the returned property itself - you have correctly determined that the Ministry of Culture does not keep records of the resolved claims, values, but it is true that the team that was formed at the MK after 2000 recorded the higher values that were returned. These are, for example, the Arboretum Volči stream, the town of Bukovje, Turjak, Vitush, Strmol and so on. From the property which has been returned to the church institutions, it is said that parishes, bishops, churches and so on, and valuable by quantity, after the deposit, are the Ursulin Monastery of Škofja Loka, Ursulin Monastery of Ljubljana, the property of the Provincial Archives of Maribor, the Stiški Castle in Ljubljana, Rajhenberg, the monastery of Kamnik, the castle of Betnava, Radeče, the court in Črnomlje, the castle of Goričana, the monastery of the Study and so on. This is only the greatest, those who have been returned, unlike those who have been preserved. What cases of RCC claims are unresolved? We have some more because it is also the tiniest nuts that have remained on the domain of the Ministry of Culture more than others, despite the accelerations that have been given in the past period, and some even have to be challenged if we are talking about an agreement on the Blejsko island, which we know that the state did not return it to the Roman Catholic Church, but the Roman Catholic Church then with the agreement between the Government and the parish or the bishop of the hotel to own three more objects that were not returned to it in the denationalisation process, but the state has preserved them. The entire Križank complex in Ljubljana, Sveti Urh in Ljubljana, is still unresolved, a monument to NOB in Goričkem, the church of Sv. Spirit in Montenegro, monastery in Strunjan, which is used by the Training Centre Elvira Vatovec and Kostanjevica. Kostanjevica, but only partly because the decision in Kostanijevic was recently issued, it is a partial decision where the denationalisation of the Kostanjevica Castle took place and the compensation will be shown in bonds. This is already a legal decision and the parcels have not yet been resolved or are yet to be settled. Land around the castle, I think. The whole sum, perhaps further, would raise the question, because the total sum of all the country's investments in monuments in the last 10 years is relative and can be mentioned quickly, to almost €16 million. That's what you call investing the state for. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the restoration of the monumental protection facilities owned by the RCC. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you for the complete information. As you yourself have said, I expect a written reply in which I would ask for further details, values if, of course, this is only possible and also from subsidies of content which are also financed by public funds or by state resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u177	I would be happy to provide this information, which would also be possible for the public. Although, I admit that they are not entirely perfect because the statistics before 1999 should be further focused. But they're approximate values, though. It is not only what the State invested in sites of monumental value that are important. It is interesting to compare the difference between investing in monuments, owned by the Republic of Slovenia or by municipalities and local communities, the visas of investments that went to those where it is owned or where the owner of the Roman Catholic Church appears after denationalisation. I expose the Roman Catholic Church because other religious communities are minimally represented. These relationships are very interesting, and data are interesting according to age. For example, in the last four years, this difference between investing in public buildings and those owned or came back to the church was small. It is said that there is more investment or almost equal. However, we know that there are many, very many monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia that are falling apart when we are talking about castles. We're restoring them, but it's so slow that those who don't come in turn are already falling apart. The data are also important, as you said, as you said, what is the proportion of co-financing of the country for the archiving activity of the Slovenian Bulgarian conference, which gets very on average, and in mind, about 150,000 euros. I think it's about wages, activities and archives. It is also important to finance the public institution of the Museum of Christianity in Slovenia, where it goes, very flatly, that I will not waste time by mentioning after years, for about 170,000 or 150,000 on average euros per year to co-finance a museum with a special status. We just know he's in mixed co-establishment. Last year, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage gave us another duty. This is the preparation of a treaty to regulate intra-investment relations in the largest religious community, where it will be necessary to determine precisely or otherwise to regulate these relations and to reflect them once again. It is important to reflect again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question, which is absent. You're going to set him up anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u179	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Minister, dear colleagues. Question, oral question I am sending to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Karl Erjavac, on the construction of sewage networks and cleaning plants in Slovenia by 2017, in accordance with European legislation. Under the Kyoto Agreement, the current Regulation provides that local communities should build sewage networks and treatment plants by 2017. The construction of these in such a short time poses a major problem for local communities in Slovenia, as despite the co-financing of projects from European cohesion funds and other resources, local communities are not financially able to provide their own co-financing shares. Also, because of the geographically dispersed area in Slovenia, we have areas of scattered construction, where smaller cleaning facilities are needed for each unit or for a smaller number of user units. With regard to this question, I ask the Minister for Environment and Space: Will the State provide any other incentive to local communities, i.e. municipalities, to provide additional funding for the construction of sewerage networks and cleaning facilities by 2017 in order to meet the time frame laid down in European legislation? Is there any special invitation by the Ministry to tender in the field of ecology to encourage individuals from the area of dispersed buildings to build smaller individual cleaning facilities? Individual investors are currently in a subjugation situation compared to those of narrow settlements where the construction of sewerages and cleaning facilities is fully provided for by local municipalities, together with co-financing European and state resources. The biggest problem is the co-financing of small individual cleaning plants and the promotion of individual smaller investors for this type of construction. According to our information, this is also the case at the Ministry of Environment and Space. I'll ask you for an answer next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u180	Would you like an oral or written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u181	I'd like an oral response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u182	This concludes the first round of questions. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Only Mr. Luka Yuri, who is not present, has been reported. I conclude by asking questions to ministers and ministers. I thank the ministers and ministers for their answers. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. with questions from Members and Members to the President of the Government. Thank you and a nice hello!
