ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Roberto Battelli, mag. Branko Grimes and Jakob the Presbyterian. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Violence within the Community in the years 2009-2014. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Anji Kopač Dark, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Well welcomed, Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the motion for a resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Domestic Violence for the period 2009-2014. The purpose of the resolution is to change our attitude towards domestic violence. Domestic violence must be perceived and perceived as an act of rejection, which has far-reaching negative consequences for the development of society, and especially for children, which are difficult to correct and are passed on from generation to generation. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs drafted the text of a motion for a resolution adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 12 March this year. The resolution is a strategic document setting out the objectives, measures and key policy holders for the prevention and reduction of domestic violence in the Republic of Slovenia for a five-year period. The main objectives of this document are: firstly, to integrate measures from different sources and to ensure effective activities to reduce domestic violence, both at the level of its identification and prevention. Specific tasks and activities to achieve the objectives and implement individual actions will be defined in action plans to be drawn up every two years and will specify time frames and implementing methods. The text is the product of professional work and coordination in all areas. This was done by professional workers who face this issue daily, as well as by representatives of NGOs. The two-year action plan, which will follow the adoption of the resolution, will ensure a more transparent use of public resources to reduce violence and target the action of competent authorities for individual target groups. The plan also includes a government campaign against violence within the family for a five-year period or for a period covered by the resolution. All bodies involved in the drafting of this legislation, namely social, police, education, health and justice, will contribute to the campaign for which a public call for the choice of the contractor will be launched. The Ministry of Labour is preparing a proposal for a comprehensive campaign aimed at raising awareness of the wider society of the inadmissibility of violence in any form. One of the main objectives of the resolution is to raise general sensitivity to the problem of violence, especially in cases where children within the family are exposed to abuse. A comprehensive protocol has also been adopted which regulates the participation of bodies and the functioning of social work centres, multi-disciplinary teams and regional services, and other sectoral protocols are in the final phase. Your Honor, here is the first strategic document in the field of domestic violence, which I believe no one doubts his need. We are pursuing an important objective to change the attitude of Slovenian society towards domestic violence, and this can only be achieved if the country implements coordinated and coordinated planned measures with its institutions, especially during a period when the prudent use of public funds is inevitable. Our joint efforts must be built up to ensure that we are all responsible for the society in which we live and that we offer assistance to all who wish to step out of the circle of violence. It will undoubtedly be necessary to increase preventive activity for a life without violence and to teach our young generation that the rights of one person are limited to the rights of another. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the Committee. She's not present. There is no agreement for the Vice-President to present it. So there won't be a presentation of the committee. I am moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u4	Nice greetings to all present. So today we are adopting a resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Domestic Violence for the period 2009 to 2014, and I am pleased that this resolution, at least on the basis of the debate that has been held so far, will be adopted unanimously in the National Assembly. This is a continuation of the implementation of domestic violence prevention based on the Domestic Violence Prevention Act. Although we have expressed some concerns or advice on what else this resolution should include in the first proposal in the Group of Members. We have mentioned a particular cultural and ideological tolerance for violence, which stemmed from some of the research that has already been done, but undoubtedly the first step towards more detailed and more careful monitoring of violence. You all know from everyday life that sometimes we do not find a common language in where violence begins and what patterns of behavior or, if you want, punishment is appropriate in the family and what kind of behavior is not. We have also drawn attention to the questionability of this resolution, which the current text has been amended accordingly, following the assurances of the drafters. Therefore, we are optimistic about the implementation of the tasks set and the achievement of the objectives set out, the core of which are action plans. Our emphasis and comments also included a desire for greater involvement of the non-governmental sector, since NGOs are undoubtedly the first to detect domestic violence, somehow we trust them more than some national authorities. The next hope to be expressed when this resolution is adopted is that we will all achieve zero tolerance for violence together in our lives, that is one bright goal to which I hope that this resolution will also guide us. The worst experience or one of those that a child can experience in a family is also the presence of conflicts that arise between a partner and that is perhaps one of the new qualities that we have not known in our present concept of domestic violence. This resolution also speaks of violence against women, in a smaller number also against men who are, and here I hope that consent is complete, unacceptable. The implementation of violence must be prevented, but not further stigmatised by the victims, and this present resolution, which we are adopting today, is the beginning of a long path that should be given to all present. There are today, unfortunately, more and more acts of verbal violence between Members and Members of Parliament, aggressive acts that do not give our society a positive signal about the inadmissibility of any violence. And here our responsibility is great and unfortunately greater than we ever knew. It should be noted that, to a greater extent than physical violence, there is also a psychological effect. On the surface, the eyes are hidden and help is therefore often too late. Even the current conditions in which we are are not bringing a safer environment, the level of satisfaction is lower and the stress and related aggression is rising. This, of course, is no reason to be tolerant of violence, but it is possible that we are aware of our greater responsibility in carrying out our work, because the consequences of our work are not only direct but also indirect. If we adopt this resolution after one stop, on the other hand, we adopt laws that do not contribute to any prosperity in the family, of course we have done nothing. We are pleased that the draft protocol for the implementation of the resolution has already been prepared, and we also need to mention the long-term attitude that will prevent, if not violence, at least the tolerance for these cruel acts. Finally, let me say that in short, our goal is zero to tolerance for violence, appropriate penal policy and appropriate rehabilitation for both victims and perpetrators. In the Group of Members, we will therefore, of course, adopt a resolution on the national programme for the prevention of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary-General, colleague and colleague! The motion for a resolution before us is a document which could easily be named a list of wishes. For, unfortunately, most of the resolutions in our country experience the fate of a declaration document, which is written down and then thrown into a drawer. Plans written in this document remain only a dead letter on paper. For example, one is the National Programme for Children and Youth. Although the resolution itself is a very good document based on the long-awaited Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which was adopted at the end of the previous term. Every act, every law, every document that reminds the public of the presence of violence within the parental social cell, that is, the family, is welcome. It means a good step towards raising the awareness of people that there are different kinds of violence in families, especially over the weakest members, these are children, disabled people and the elderly. We are pleased that people hope to be more and more aware that violence against the elderly is taking place, and that such a time frame of violence must be cut. On the other hand, it grieves us that very little of this type of violence is being addressed in this particular document. Older ones who are victims of domestic violence are confronted with extremely strong feelings of shame, guilt, and fear of revenge, and the ridicule of the surrounding area, so violence is often concealed and not told. One of the major shortcomings we face in our country is that we do not have enough room for the elderly to find ourselves in front of a bully or that the elderly do not know the opportunities available to them. We do not know safe houses for the elderly, but for women and children, even for men these days, which we welcome in our group. At this point, I would just like to say that violence against men is also under-considered, as the case in Gorenjski shows when a man ended up in a hospital with serious injuries. Domestic violence is particularly vile, since it occurs between four walls and often without witnesses, quietly leaving lasting consequences on the victims. In our parliamentary group, we fear that violence against the elderly will continue to increase, which is driven by the results of a recent public opinion survey in Europe, which revealed that almost a quarter of Slovenians believe that the elderly are a burden on society, and more than 60% of all estimate that employees will no longer be willing to pay social contributions to the elderly, says, for pensions, but I don't know, and we don't understand how they imagine that they will ever get a pension for themselves. Many other studies show that hatred for the elderly is strengthened, which is more likely to become physical as well as a number of forms of psychological violence. Given that this fundamental argument on the increase of domestic violence is less or excessively concerned about the elderly, we are concerned that this reflects an extremely poor relationship between the countries and the elderly. Otherwise, as has already been said, in our Group, we support the motion for a resolution in the hope that it is not one of those that has not been implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The motion for a resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Domestic Violence is, of course, a document which we will gladly support in the Slovenian National Party. The fact is that since 1999, violence has been a criminal offence under article 299 of the Penal Code, and the fact is that in 2004 we introduced the first division for family disputes at the District Court in Ljubljana, which is good. Last but not least, if we look at statistics, we are concerned that this violence in the family is growing with the poor social condition of individuals who will continue to deteriorate, and this is likely to continue to grow. In the last ten years, the number of cases of domestic violence has increased by as much as 73%, and Slovenia has been ordering action in this area. We have 88 male perpetrators, so it's men who are the most violent in the family, and in these cases women are the most abused and exposed to violence. In the Republic of Slovenia there are waiting periods for abused women and their children to be placed in safe houses, we believe, for too long. Here we should do something to immediately install such a threatened family, since we have an average of 13 calls a day in SOS, operating 10 hours a day at workshops and 4 hours a day on Saturdays and Sundays. 13 calls a day -- I'm giving you statistics that you can think of -- is huge. And many of these need help immediately and now, not tomorrow, for tomorrow may be too late. Let me tell you an example from Séžana. I'm from Séžana. You know about the tragic murder of two children. If a father as a doctor did not protect his daughter, who was sick to call her sick, he protected her by dropping her out of the hospital prematurely and showing her that everything was okay in society, it probably would not have happened. The work of social work centres is also inadequate. According to our deep assessment, it is too often just a statistical record of events. The police, who should act, do not act until something really happens. But when it does, it's too late. We have a case of a number of calls, dozens, from the same address, and the police didn't act because nothing happened. And of course, the Resolution itself on the prevention of domestic violence, I've also said that on the parent's working body, will do us no good unless we do something to prevent this violence in the kala - where it comes from. Therefore, we must also do better work in social work centres and the judiciary will have to deal with these cases more quickly and with a higher priority. The backlogs are also often blamed for the recurrence of the cause. And when it is a tragedy, then all the Pilates wash their hands, and no one will be guilty: and these tragedies are a thing. If you only open the Slovenian news, you can see every day whether, as colleague Žnidaršič said, "the woman stabbed the husband" or "the husband beat the wife". And of course that's not good. If we walk on actual data, see, in 2000, we detected 3,084 crimes, in 2001 3,844, in 2002 4,441, in 2003 it was 5,000 and so on. Well, that's growing. We need to do something to make this work in practice. We have an adequate legal basis, and I would be very happy if we could also strictly implement these matters and give these calls a priority together with the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be united in supporting the resolution on the national programme ahead of us. The family is of the highest value, and family policy should be the basis, in our view, for regulating the political decisions of each democratic state. Domestic violence affects the most vulnerable and vulnerable members of our society, that is, our children. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the programme set out in the resolution is a good one, covering all kinds of violence and also all victims. In the parliamentary group, we also believe that we should adopt an appropriate family code as soon as possible; the draft or proposal has already been drafted by the previous government. In particular, the Family Code should be adopted in order to improve the effectiveness and coherence of actions and measures, to prevent prevention and, in particular, to take effective action to prevent even worse consequences and to continue such violence. We believe that the biggest and most common problem is the coordinated and intervention of all institutions that should work in such cases: the Centre for Social Work, the police, the prosecution, the courts, schools, kindergartens, health care. Both detection and final decisions should be coordinated. As a rule, it is difficult and really extreme for the victim to decide on any assistance from the State, for everything goes too slowly, uncoordinated and also often to solve the situation in a non-complementary and difficult way for the victim. It would be good if violent individuals could be prevented more quickly and effectively from violent acts. It is also necessary to look at ourselves, each individual, how we behave in the family, or set the right example, and then in society too, we need to follow changes in behavior. There is too much visible violence on TV and in general. The pattern is wrong. Resolutions and laws will be effective if all responsible organisations and institutions involved in the rescue of the victim act in a coherent and, above all, rapid and effective manner. In Slovenia, we need to strengthen the competence of social work centres, relieve them of unreasonable red tape, and most likely they will be able to act more effectively. In particular, we need priority cases in the prosecution and in the court, for which it would be good for them to have a set of prosecutors, judges who are specially qualified and who would only deal with such a problem. We will support the national programme in the Slovenian People's Party. We stress, however, that preventive action must be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry as well. What about the resolution? Surely this is an important area at a time when we are living today, which is not easy for everyone, is difficult, responsible, but also stressful, and also important treatment. However, it should be stressed that today we are speaking at a principled, theoretical level, that, of course, there will be much more to be done in practice, and each one of us. Domestic violence, it's not something that's going to happen or happening, what's happening to someone else or to someone else, but it's a problem that's happening today, here, now, and this to us. Domestic violence is certainly devastating for the family, for the individual, even for society. Violent behaviour patterns are being carried on, so family violence needs to be discussed, alerted to, and particularly to, victims and the consequences of, concrete assistance and elimination. The resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Domestic Violence from 2009 to 2014 is a strategic document, a quality document setting out the objectives, measures, including key policy holders for the prevention and reduction of domestic violence. It covers the assessment of the situation, the identification of key problems in the field of violence, including basic objectives, orientations, tasks in the field of prevention of domestic violence, bearers of action plans for the implementation of guidelines and tasks under the national programme, preventive activities, data to be selected, processed, linked, stored, analysed and also guidelines for education, training, as well as, which is particularly important, the provision of financial and other means for the operation of NGOs. In the view of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, it is the "non-governments" who, in the view of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, can be the added value that can be added to all those who are engaged in the field of official duty, could be another upgrade, some added value, so that we can all be even better, more efficient, more successful in order to make violence even less. It is important for us to stress the fundamental objectives of this document, which are to link the actions of different sources and to ensure an effective action to reduce domestic violence, both at the level of recognition and prevention and clear specific tasks and activities to achieve the objectives and implementation of individual measures, so that the definitions in the action plans to be drawn up every two years are even more precise, even more detailed both in the timeframes and in the implementation plans. It is also important to note that each time an action plan will be prepared on the basis of performance reports and on these past two-year periods, as well as additional proposals for the direction and tasks of individual ministries as well as NGOs. In a variety of ways, violence has become such a common part of everyday life that many times we do not notice it, as far as domestic violence is concerned, the belief that it is not good to get involved in family matters is still prevalent, and that is what we hear every day in conversations between victims, between family conversations, on the streets, and also in some public organizations. Therefore, I think it is particularly important to note that if we do not recognize violence, it is even more dangerous to minimize it, but it is particularly dangerous to ignore it. Even so, we do not adopt the necessary legislation. In Slovenia, there has certainly been much more talk and talk in the last few years about the violence that is taking place behind the domestic walls, and with the adoption of the system legislation on the prevention of domestic violence, we have proved that it is a problem that we must not and must no longer keep our eyes closed. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the resolution on domestic violence is important and a document is needed, but of course it is only one of the many steps that we must all take together in this direction to reduce violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! Let me begin a presentation of the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members, as I have about started to present my position on the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, that is, by prescribing the choice of non-violence, as stated by this footnote: "As a mature and responsible person, I swear that I do not cause violence, I do not overlook violence, I do not encourage violence, I do not encourage violence, I speak against violence and I work, I inform myself of trafficking in human beings." If this oath is carefully reconsidered, in fact, we see that it corresponds to individual chapters of the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, and this is also associated with the resolution that we are discussing today. On 1 February 2008, the law was adopted by 81 votes in favour and no votes against with 82 Members present and Members, so we can expect the resolution to receive such an agreement. But you have to go from words to actions. And here our actions, as well as our actions and our viewpoints, differ in few ways. After individual years, we could determine for the past what events have taken place on the way to this strategic document that we are adopting today. And there are few who believe that this is a principled document, but there will be a lot more to be done in life. We have already warned the Social Democrats at the time of the adoption of the law that the adoption of the law is indeed an essential element in the mosaic of necessary measures, but that protocols are needed, that a resolution is needed, that action plans are needed. We accept the first of these acts today. Under Article 11 of the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, the National Assembly is obliged to adopt a resolution and to adopt a report from the Government on how the resolution is being implemented every two years. If we adopt the resolution today with great expectations, I am confident that we will be able to determine in this mandate where the resolution has met its expectations and where more will have to be done. It is essential that the resolution follows consistently the definition of violence, which is considered to be a violent act of every physical, sexual, psychological, and economic violence. And not least - neglect as a form of violence is also considered a form of violence in the family. If some see that the individual population groups are under-emphasized in the resolution, it is therefore still possible to follow this course of action. Finally, Article 4 of the Law on the Prevention of Violence specifically requires us to do so. Social Democrats also believe that there should be a great deal of concern about statistical monitoring of this phenomenon, as statistics have not been collected in Slovenia, so we had to actually get a number from comparative data that almost every quarter of the family or relationship can detect some of these forms of violence. As we took part in the Council of Europe's action, Parliaments, united in the fight against violence against women, we also drew attention to the economic dimensions and consequences of domestic violence. Let me remind you, there are 40 euros of violence-related costs for every citizen. But let me make an opinion with what I think is our mission. In the fight against domestic violence, Members and Members can play an active and truly crucial role. Above all, it is our commitment to prevent violence and to help victims and to participate in all forms of violence prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u16	Dear Mr. Vice President! Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law on the prevention of domestic violence was adopted in the previous mandate, with a large majority or unanimously. Article 11 provides that the National Programme for the Prevention of Domestic Violence shall be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government for a period of five years. This is a strategic document setting out the objectives, measures and key policy holders for preventing and reducing violence in families in the Republic of Slovenia. Already with the adoption of the law, the situation in this area has begun to improve. There has been a legal ban on the approximation of abusers to victims, which has already been successfully implemented. Safe houses, safe points, temporary shelters are being established. People too are increasingly aware that they hope to report violent acts or violent acts. In particular, the most vulnerable groups such as children, women, disabled people, elderly people, of course also men are not excluded, at least recently not as far as we hear. Resolution means a strategic document. Specific tasks and activities to achieve the objectives and implement individual actions will be defined in the Action Plans. This is a matter of cooperation and activities from different sources, which provide effective measures to reduce domestic violence. Social work centres, police, courts, kindergartens, schools, health institutions and organisations, as well as civil society or society, are included. The resolution includes an assessment of the situation and identification of key problems, key objectives, orientations and tasks, managers of action plans for the implementation of the guidelines and tasks of the national programme in specific areas. These are preventive data collection and analysis activities, education and, last but not least, awareness-raising activities for all, both victims and abusers, and especially for people in the environment, to identify and respond to acts of violence. The motion for a resolution is well prepared and we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am convinced that domestic violence prevention activities will be even closer to the problem, especially the awareness of people not to conceal or cover their eyes against violence. Tragic acts often surprise us when there are one or more fatalities. Recently, as we have heard today, this tragedy was the death of two young children. At such events, we always wonder if anything has been done to prevent the tragedy. Then we find out that someone was hiding the disease, and the second time they weren't taken seriously by the threat of a violent act. These are the most tragic outcomes. Among us are many victims, over whom physical or psychological violence and other violence have been committed for years and years, as we have already heard about them. With greater attention in institutions dealing with education, education, treatment and other activities, and with the better awareness of people in the living environment, we will prevent or reduce violence or at least prevent the worst when it comes to the loss of life. As I have already mentioned, the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the resolution on the prevention of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I do not know, for the first time in my opinion, that we do not have the opportunity to discuss Members in such an important resolution. Before Parliament was under the main influence of other parties, that was not the case. It is also clear from another point of view that it did not seem important, serious and responsible enough to present the work of the committee, so I would suggest that we take the decision that the National Assembly should refrain from depriving itself of marginalising and minimizing the problem of domestic violence, which occurred when the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in the National Assembly did not present a report to the Committee on the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which is associated with the non-interference of Members or Parliament with the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. With regard to the first question, I must tell you that the way in which the resolution is dealt with is provided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and provides for treatment as acts in the second reading. Therefore, the proposal, as it is prepared, is in line with the Rules of Procedure. As for the fact that the presentation of the position of the parent working body has not been carried out, I understand your proposal as an initiative to give such an opportunity to a fellow member of the committee. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, I think it was a demeanor. To malign the honor and integrity of this National Assembly. For see, Comrade Friday himself came from Koroška, that he was on the Committee on Foreign Policy at 9th. But here's an important resolution, let's not go further, let's take this decision. I have proposed that we take a decision to prevent this issue from being defiled and belittled. I have not proposed anything else, but you will assess whether you put it to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u21	Mr Jerovšek, your proposal is not a procedural decision, but a substantive question. He's also unfriendly to a colleague of the president of his mother's working body. I find it uncomfortable that such proposals are even made in the National Assembly because I would not like to continue to assess the reasons. But you know well that I have not given my word that we could not object in any way to me to make any distinctions as to which parliamentary group the President comes from. I'm closing the debate. As a procedural explanation? It doesn't belong, Mrs. Blur, please. Let's talk [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really propose, given that the report has been given in writing, that I also read it and present it to Members at today's meeting. Otherwise, I sincerely apologize, for as a professor, I also have responsibilities in college and have rushed here in great haste. You started very quickly, and it surprised me, I truly apologize, but I suggest I read this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u23	Mrs Meglič, your apology - I personally hope that colleagues and colleagues too accept. I don't want to make that decision on my own, because I'm going to have to take it any other time, and that's not gonna be good. I see that voting on this would not be worthwhile and necessary, so I suggest we take note of your apology. If I read - and I believe that I would properly - the report that is being prepared, then I would suggest to my fellow Members and Members that we do so, because we have all received the report and I think that this will also satisfy the importance and role that the mother's working body gives to the resolution. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, the decision on the motion for a resolution will be made tomorrow, on Tuesday, 23 May 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the day - First defence of the proposal for a law amending the laws on the death penalty and invalidity insurance under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Member Robert Hrovat. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and a Member with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate, which is why we are in the context of the general debate on the law. I give the floor to Mr Robert Hrovat, the bill's proposer for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice and good day to all present. We have before us a discussion and a decision on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, more specifically amending Article 431 of this Act. As you know, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act also pays old and family pensions which have been recognised and awarded in accordance with the provisions of the previous Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers. The amount of these pensions shall be the same for all beneficiaries. However, at the time of the entry into force of the PPIZ, half of the minimum pension for the full pension period was fixed. The pension of a farmer with the status of a fighter of the National Liberation War before 9.9.1943 and 13.10.1943 was fixed at the level of the lowest pension for the full pension period in force in the last month prior to the entry into force of the ZPIZ, which is then coordinated in the same way as the pension. At its meeting on 17 February 2009, the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia adopted a decision on the amount of the retirement pension of farmers. Thus, after harmonising the old or family pension granted under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers, from 1 January 2009 the fighting amounted to 227.60 euros. As of 1 January 2009, the retirement pension of a fighter of the People's Liberation War amounts to 455,19 euros. It is therefore more than obvious that there is an unfair distinction between beneficiaries of farm pensions. The current arrangements for farm pensions need to be changed as the amount of the farmer's pension is absolutely too small compared to the other categories of pension. The proposal provides a more decent life for pension recipients under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers, as they will be provided with greater social security through the adoption of this law, given their important role in the past, the present and, I believe, they certainly deserve it in the future. The law will improve the material position of low-income users. This will allow the part of the population that has now been particularly affected during the economic crisis to improve social conditions and facilitate survival in these times of crisis. My proposal is to align the situation of all pensioners in rural areas by giving everyone a pension set at the lowest pension rate for the full pension period, i.e. the number given to farmers by fighters. In early 2009, we also proposed to the Slovenian Democratic Party the adoption of the Single Pension Allowance Act, because of the inactiveness of the current government, we wanted to fulfil the promise to pensioners and pensioners, which we have given to virtually all parties in the pre-election period, and this promise is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. By providing financial resources and creating the right conditions for the people of Slovenia, with particular emphasis and listening to the social weak, we also planned to continue in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the 2008-2012 mandate, in this mandate, but our real view of life was then announced by cries of poverty and promises of pensions of 1,000 euros, building a home for the elderly and so on. The first experiences show that it was misleading and manipulation by now rulings, who, on the basis of beautiful words, received the election votes of people who believed in continuing to improve the situation of pensioners. Suddenly, there is no more poverty, no more about pensions and no more about building houses, a special addition to the current government's pensions is being rejected. And as a paradox in solving the hardships and social problems, those of our citizens who are most needed, the current government coalition has adopted an amendment to the Law on Widowary Pensions after former military officials and, as we know, has further increased the ratings for those people who are not on the social floor, even though they have not paid to the Slovenian pension fund, but to the Belgrade fund. And if I add that the difference between a farmer's pension and the pension of a farmer's fighters in the sky is absorbing, the difference is once again a higher pension in favour of the farmers of the fighters, which is nothing for the nations to understand, only in my opinion differences are unnecessary. It's the same work they did and do. Then I strongly hope and expect that you will help Members and Members, by amending this law, to resolve the hardships of those who are still in need of assistance and regulation. Last but not least, as I have already mentioned today, I will repeat once again, by adopting this law, greater social security will be ensured for the recipients of farm pensions, which they certainly deserve in view of their important role in the past, the present and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Anji Kopač Mrak, to complement the Government's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u26	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The age insurance of farmers was regulated by the Law on Age Insurance of Farmers in 1972. For the first time, agricultural insurance and the reason for strengthening the social security of the rural population were established. The fundamental characteristic of this insurance is a specific type of solidarity that goes beyond the circle of insurers and beneficiaries under the Agricultural Age Insurance Act, namely, that the general pension scheme insurers, i.e. all employees and self-employed persons who pay in this scheme, have participated in the partial coverage of the expenditure on agricultural age insurance entitlements. The insurance is based on the principle of the solidarity participation of the whole of society and should therefore also be taken into account in the scope of the rights from the age insurance of farmers. The conditions under which insured persons were entitled to an old-age pension were much less difficult than those laid down in today's pension and disability scheme. The minimum insurance period was required only 5 years - now 15 years. At the same time, the right could be exercised by several persons on the farm, paid only, pardon 1 contribution. The amount of the old pension was measured uniformly to all insured persons and amounted to 1. 1. 2009 €227.60. So this height is measured regardless of the amount and period of payment contributions. The current single pension system, which has included farmers since 1983, provides the insured with a minimum pension of 35% of the lowest pension base since 1. 1. 2009 amounts to only EUR 187.43. The increase in old-age pension following the old-age insurance of farmers, as set out in the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the ZPIZ 1H, would result in an inconsistent increase in these pensions compared to old-age pensions from the general pension and disability insurance system. The proposed amendment would thus affect the system regime of pension and disability insurance, as changes in such a complex system as pension scheme have an impact for years to come. The modification of one remuneration would reasonably trigger a number of requests from other beneficiaries who receive entitlements from the pension fund. On the basis of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to reject the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u28	Dear Vice President. A respected secretary of state with a co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is another of the series of laws that the SDS Group has been investing as a current lane, which has apparently saved all its creativity for the term when it is no longer in power, rather than for this creativity to survive during the period of rule. This is a law that aims to align the situation of pensioners in rural areas by giving everyone a pension of the lowest full-time pension in force in the last month prior to the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and which would be coordinated as all other pensions. With regard to the pension system, it should be said that farmers are already positively discriminated against, privileged in the sense that they receive a low pension, but without the necessary contributions, which were generally minimal for years and some have not paid anything, but still receive a state pension, which has resulted in the number of farmers benefiting from this decline and, of course, increasing the number of those receiving a pension without any contribution. Farmers are also positively discriminated against in other respects in this country. They have European Union subsidies, they have compensation for the consequences of drought, hailing, etc. This is how we think that the country is doing something for the rural population, which, of course, we welcome and have always supported in the DeSUS Group. On the other hand, we have, of course, workers who have to go to work every day, to spend at least 8 hours there, for which they receive salaries from which they are obliged to pay their contributions, are not receiving any other assistance from the Republic of Slovenia, nor from the European Union, but only any tax relief from the tax service. According to the proposal before us, farmers are expected to receive pensions like full-time workers who contribute a high amount to the pension allowance compared to other European countries, even among the highest contributions after that salary. According to our assessment, there are two categories of citizens, one of whom is positively discriminated against and received various gifts from the State, while the other is in a highly deprived position and left to be exploited by employers and even by the State for mercy and mercy. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, although we are a party to Slovenian pensioners, we cannot support such pensions as are not primarily the result of the contributions paid, and therefore we cannot support this equation with workers who have to work and pay 40 years for their pension. It sounds incredible, but it is true that in fact there is always a worse part of our citizens who pay the most in pension bills for the benefit of those who contribute little or nothing. Of course, such a system will have to be rectified in one way or another within the envisaged revisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. With regard to the applicants, however, it would not be surprising if we came up with a proposal that everyone should have the same pension, or with a proposal that everyone should have the same salary, but through a system of "the policies of the same stomachs", which we do not agree with. We are convinced that the pension should increasingly reflect the contributions paid and the length of the work, we are not for pensions that are the result of some agreements, political decisions that do not have contributions paid and a long working period nothing in common. This is our position, which we advocate, not that we may receive criticism. It won't be the first time we've been right, but we're going to take it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Changes in the amount and conditions for farmers' pensions compared to other types of pensions are urgently necessary. The proposed amendment would, at least to some extent, ensure greater social security for farmers within the framework of age insurance. The social position of most rural pensioners is extremely critical and unfair. Those who come from rural regions can witness to the unacceptable and shameful attitude of our society towards this category of pensioners. Only in Prekmurje, for example, do we have, unfortunately, several thousand rural pensioners who receive shamefully low amounts from farm retirement pensions. They range from 70, 120 to 150 euros. The proposed single amounts for all beneficiaries of the full pension period would at least partially facilitate the social situation of farmers and their families. In the SNS, too, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law will not have a significant impact on the increase of other public funds, i.e. about €5 million, which is a relatively acceptable amount for such a vulnerable population, especially if we take into account the need for farms and the Slovenian countryside in general. With the traditional stepmotherly attitude towards the farming population, the rural pensioners and, last but not least, the agricultural, economic, rural activities themselves, it is imperative to stop, transform and lay them on human, socially stable foundations. We are very concerned in the Slovenian National Party when we see how the country's relationship with the pensioners is unfairly different, and we do not accept in any way the fact that certain categories of population are privileged for any reason. Here we think first of all of the privileges enjoyed mainly in Prekmurje and in Dolenjska Živa and in the opinion of several Ljubljana academics for Slovenia an indispensable multicultural ethnic group of the Slovenian population. Such enforcement of multiculturalism and socialisation for the Slovenian National Party is unacceptable. Besides, it's very expensive. The amounts of money spent for these purposes could be used very gratefully and also from a social point of view to improve the social situation of Slovenian farmers. It is extremely sad that this country ignores the Slovenian farmer and the peasant pensioner who has worked hard on Slovenian land throughout his life, and in the end his farmer's old pension does not amount to half the amount of gypsy social assistance. This situation needs to be changed, as it is extremely unacceptable for the SNS that the privileged ethnic profile of the population can receive more social assistance for a week than for a rural pensioner who has worked hard for the rest of his life. Therefore, we propose that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act should be amended accordingly for rural pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome this and every similar bill, which means improving the social situation of those who actually live on the poverty line and cannot help themselves much. Although the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia notes that it has been living under the poverty threshold of 12 to 14% of Slovenia's population over the past decade. If income did not include family and social benefits, the risk of poverty in Slovenia would be 25%. Last year, the poverty threshold was €495. In the bill we have before us, however, we are talking about those who receive pensions at a level far below the threshold of poverty. We are talking about a total of EUR 227.60 per month, so there will be no mistake. In my environment, I know quite a few of the elderly and burned-down citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who, by their work, better said working hard, have earned an entire pension of € 187.43. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group asked the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs this very subject matter, and, however, the Ministry stresses the payment of contributions to a greater or broader extent, with such pensions it is simply impossible to survive. With regard to such answers to the Minister, the Government should mention only that it is absurd that a farmer who worked on his land for years had survived himself and his family during the period when the prices of agricultural crops were extremely low when the so-called mandatory broadcast, when it had to be spent literally all day and every day of the year, so that this farmer today, when he was old, would receive a pension some euro higher than the national pension. There are also extremely inappropriate arguments justifying this fact by the fact that these beneficiaries have other assets. Anyone who thinks logically knows that in those who have low incomes, there is very little chance that they have created a lot of property. If they have a field or two, they can no longer process it, and it is clear to everyone that they have no use for it. Young takers, or young ones, who stay at home on the farm, are reduced from year to year. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are concerned about how people with such pensions break through the month. And don't let God make them sick that they need some checks that everyone pays nicely today. True, they are modest and able to endure, yet they deserve a decent, worthy, survival of old age. They deserve so much to be able to take care of themselves, not to be dependent on others in their old age. For this is for a man who has worked hard all his life to care for himself and his family, extremely humiliating. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party proposes to all those who are so empathetic and sane that we support this law and at the same time propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take this issue seriously as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much. One more word for it. Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry. There is an interesting law ahead of us, but above all there have been interesting discussions, but there is always a basis for the starting point and the point of view of pensions in this law. Certainly, pensions are on the one hand the result of past work and past investments. However, if we are talking about the fact that the resources of a particular category of the population for survival are not sufficient, we need to resolve this in the country with other transfers rather than with pensions. I must say that the rural area and agriculture I know well. I have been a farmer since I was young, and I have served bread on the ground for 22 years in contact with the farming population and the things you have done today, populism and flat-rate, they are not going through. This isn't a reception and you just pull it so it'll be fun. The pension system is a single demanding system, so one or two walls from this wall can't be pulled out so the wall doesn't collapse. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we will not support the bill, as such an intervention in such a complex and problematic pension system would be completely irresponsible in terms of the sustainability of the pension system, but we certainly agree that some of the pensions they receive - the elderly, the peasants are certainly too small. At the same time, however, when we talk about how a category that has certainly earned this pension in its work can be discussed, how to increase these benefits, and at the same time we need to talk about how to ensure greater and more stable payments from this segment, on the basis of which they will result in pensions. You are probably aware that a pension reform has been announced, that a project group is also set up, which is responsible for analysis and a proposal for systemic solutions, because if these solutions are not comprehensive, weighed and considered, then surely we are facing an unloving scenario. As a result of the increase in the older population, the outlook for the future is very pessimistic, since in 15 years it is likely that those who earn around €898 will receive only €500 in pensions. However, those who have a minimum wage, and in Slovenia there are a large number, some over 300 euros. Both numbers do not mean a decent life, for they are already on the threshold or even below the threshold of poverty. The gap between those who work and those who receive pensions is greater from year to year. In Slovenia today we have poor 900,000 employees and more than 550,000 pensioners, or in other words, today he has already retired 1 out of every 4 Slovenes, which means that only 1.69 employees are working for one pensioner. Compared to 25 years ago, 3 employees were employed for one pensioner, which means that the ratio has practically halved to date. On the spot, experts and economists were warned that somewhere between 2030 and 2035, when the ratio would be further disrupted and one employee would work for one pensioner. Therefore, in our view, it is essential to reform the pension system and by no means reckless intervention into an already problematic and financially sensitive pension system. One key issue that is likely to be part of the pension reform is the increase in the retirement age. This is a sensitive issue, but it has already been faced and has also found solutions for most European countries and has acted accordingly. As has already been said, a working group has been set up with the task of preparing a solution that will ensure the following objectives: on the one hand, a well-deserved pension for future generations, long-term sustainability of the pension system and an increase in the actual retirement age, which can be achieved through several measures. No one talks about raising the age limit, but in this area there are several measures to achieve the above-mentioned raise, for example, including systems of bonuses and mollusks that leave the individual to decide for himself when and how he will retire. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as far as it is concerned, we are more committed to bonuses, let's say that workers and employers are stimulated to extend working hours. For example, once a worker reaches full employment, he does not pay any more contributions to the pension allowance, as it is already a cash burden when he continues to work, as he does not receive a pension at the same time and, as such, certainly becomes very interesting to the employer who is significantly reduced in his labour costs. Moreover, it is very problematic because through the PPIZ, in addition to the actual pension, it is a property that, according to the contributions paid, is credited to pensions as a social transfer that does not really belong there. We therefore expect that this will also be one of the issues that will be addressed not only by the Working Group but will also provide appropriate solutions. For the various categories of insured persons, there are always emotional debates, once on the wallpaper of the widow's pension, secondly the peasants, thirdly the pension of military pensioners, it is essential that we set up a robust system which will guarantee that the pension is accounted for in the part where contributions are paid during the working period. The importance of certain categories of the population for the reconstruction, construction of the company, for the regulation of the settlement, for the production of healthy, safe food and more, which is definitely an additional value and added value of the farm and rural population, however, of course, we must give it to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, to arrange, but in another way and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u36	Mr Vice President, Secretary of State with a co-worker! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Member of the National Assembly Robert Hrvat submitted to the National Assembly a law amending the law on pension and disability insurance. With amendments to this, it proposes that the old or family pension granted under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers, which today amounts to 50% of the lowest pension for the full pension, should be increased to 100% of that amount, in order to double and equal the minimum pension for the full pension period received by farmers or workers working 35 years and paid also for these purposes. The amendment of the law stems from the assumption that the amount of a farmer's pension is absolutely too small compared to the other categories of pension beneficiaries. Old insured farmers were introduced in 1972 as a special insurance system. Since the beginning of this insurance, it has been characterised by the fact that it was not based on self-financing, but on the high level of solidarity of the wider company involved in covering insurance expenditure, for example, farmers paid only 30%, while workers paid 70% for these purposes. Contributions were made to the farm, which means that the period could be recognised not only to the farm holder but also to the spouse, but also to the members of the farm economy, although, as already mentioned, the payment was only one-off. That is to say, only one amount was paid on the farm. The minimum payment condition was uniform when the conditions were reached for five years of the insurance period and the height was measured to all insured persons. After 1984, not only workers but also all farmers were included in the single insurance system. The current pension scheme provides that each insured person must have at least 15 years of age and reach 65 years of age, male, and 63 years of age, a woman for whom they have a minimum pension of 35% of the lowest pension base, regardless of the amount of contributions paid. A person who worked or was a farmer who now has a pension had to pay contributions for at least 15 years. This gives them today a right that is 40.17 euros lower than a pension that belongs to farmers of old insured farmers who can only receive a pension for five years. Pension and disability insurance is primarily insurance. The rights provided for in the contributions paid shall be laid down therein. This system must not be mixed with a social assistance system which, of course, takes into account the real living conditions of an individual and the socially agreed minimum level of social security. Even though a large part of solidarity is involved in the pension system, it is nevertheless necessary to be aware that the basis of the scheme is insurance. If the pension of farmers who have obtained a pension under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers were to be increased to the minimum pension for the full pension period, they would result in inequality between the insured under this law and the workers, as well as farmers insured under the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance. Inequality would be demonstrated both during the duration of the insurance and in the amount of contributions paid. With a change, they would intervene in the system of pension and disability insurance, which would undoubtedly affect the requirements for changes in the pensions of other beneficiaries, in particular those whose pensions are very low. Let us recall once again that the country is facing challenges to the restructuring of the entire pension system, so changing one right in disregard of the consequences for the whole system is certainly not appropriate. This is why we will not support the proposed law in the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Stefan Tessel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Once again, a nice greeting to all present. The Slovenian people come mainly from the rural population. And it was farmers who for centuries maintained the settlement of the territory and preserved the Slovenian language. From the peasant family there are many giants from Slovenian history such as Primož Trubar, France Prešeren, Anton Martin Slomšek. After World War II, farmers were very neglected, being treated like dolls. The postwar authorities limited their land maximum to 10 hectares, a mandatory broadcasting was carried out, meaning that farmers were obliged to pay certain quantities of crops, even if they did not have one. In addition, young people from farmers led by force, not to say race, into factories. The working class had all the rights and, on behalf of the party, all the power. Health insurance was different for the farming population than for workers, it is said, much worse. They didn't even have any pension insurance. Due to the celebration of the farms of young heirs, the elderly farmers remained in an unenviable social position: sick, powerless, poor. In 1972, the Law on Age Insurance of Farmers brought at least a little relief. It was a solidarity measure, since by then farmers had not been paid into cash pension insurance, as this was not regulated. Of course, this farmer's pension was more of a charity. Gradually, the pension insurance of farmers improved over the coming years and began to be paid into the pension register and the insurance system only began to be equal in 1984 and was not equal to the labour force in 1990. After 1972, elderly farmers received two forms of farm pensions, the old farm pension and the pension of a fighter farmer. This one, of course, was significantly higher. Today there is a farmer, as we have heard, €227 and a wrestler €455, says twice as much as an old farmer. They are first received - data are from January 2009 - another 2,302 farmers, probably fewer now because they are dying and fighting 281. It is said that there is still a very small group of farmers, the good 2,000, who have endured all the post-war problems of building a country and abandoning a rural state and are now living in a miserable social situation. Nevertheless, it would be wise to give this group a decent life, at least in the last days of life that they no longer have much ahead of them. I know there's gonna be an objection, as we've already heard today, that they didn't pay in the pension register. I once mentioned this to my late father, he died in 1988, and a farmer was a pensioner under these conditions of the age insurance of farmers. And he said to me, "The workers had everything arranged, the job, the salary, the apartment and the health and pension insurance. But we paid taxes to farmers, and we produced cheap food that we were forced to sell at a certain price. Then what's right?" Of course I shut up because he was right. Well, and today, to this small group of socially disadvantaged people, who are getting fewer and fewer, by deciding to adopt an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we can make the rest of our lives at least with a minimum pension or equalize an old farmer's pension with a Borčevska pension. That is why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal by Member Robert Hroat to raise the lowest old country's pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Colleague Robert Hrovat introduced into the parliamentary procedure a new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which pointed out, in his view, the inadequate regulation of farm pensions, which was supposed to be too small compared to the other categories of pensions received by other pensioners. The proposal is intended to provide a more decent life for pension recipients under the Age Insurance of Farmers Act, as they are expected to be provided with greater social security through the adoption of this law. With the bill, the proposer aligns the situation of all rural pensioners. An old-age or family pension granted under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers is to be measured at a higher rate than the minimum pension for the full pension period in force in the last month. It's 455 euros. There is no doubt that the amount is too high, but there is a need to state some facts in this proposal, which the applicant has apparently forgotten. The insurance of farmers for old age was introduced for the first time by the Law on Age Insurance of Farmers only in 1972 because of a more effective solution to the harsh social conditions in the village. The insurance was not included in the pension and disability insurance system. The old-age insurance provided for the inclusion in insurance of all farmers whose agricultural activity was the sole or principal profession, but it was already clear at its adoption that the inclusion of farmers in the single pension and disability insurance scheme, which was the basic purpose, did not amount to an equalisation of the rights of farmers with those included in the compulsory pension and disability insurance. As stated by the Government in its opinion, the fundamental characteristic of the age insurance of farmers is a specific type of solidarity that goes beyond the circle of insurers and beneficiaries under the Age Insurance Act. The scope of the financing of this insurance was defined by the solidarity of the wider social community and the principle of solidarity was realized through solidarity between farmers themselves and the wider society, as it was involved in partially covering insurance expenditure. In 1976, the ratio of solidarity participation was overtaken by workers, as the financing of expenditure in favour of workers was 70% relative to 30%. On the basis of this law, farmers had assessed contributions to the farm and not to an individual, and the period could also be recognised to members of the farm economy. Given that the applicant refers to the inequality between farmers and farmers fighting NOBs, it is necessary to say that the basic right from the age insurance of farmers was the right to an old-age pension. Subject to the conditions, however, the fighters were entitled to a protective allowance, acting on the principle that the insurance was not based on self-financing but on the principle of the company’s solidarity participation. In 1984, the law regulated the pension and disability insurance of farmers with which farmers were first included in a single pension and disability insurance scheme either as individuals who could have been protected for closer rights or as joint farmers with the possibility of insurance for different levels of rights. By 1990, it was possible to retire the farmer according to the status he had at the time of his retirement, and from that year he had to establish a minimum of 15 years of insurance. The new law stipulated that farmers whose cadastral income for an insured member was equal to the minimum wage must be insured and that all else would be subject to the principle of volunteering. This means that an individual determines the basis for the payment of contributions, on which the amount of the pension or the extent of the rights depends, the current pension scheme for farmers provides that certain conditions must be met in order to obtain the right to an old-age pension: a minimum of 15 years of insurance and 65 years for men and 63 years for women. However, in accordance with the rules of all insured persons, regardless of the amount of contributions paid, the State provides a minimum pension of 35% of the lowest pension base. That's currently 187 euros. Pension recipients receive a single pension of €227 under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers. By raising pensions under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers to EUR 455, as proposed by Mr Hrovat, these would exceed the rate of pensions for persons who have more than 35 years of working retirement in the general pension system. In the Group of Members, we therefore agree with the Government's position that the adoption of this law would seriously affect the system of pension and disability insurance. The whole system of this insurance is based on an intergenerational agreement, the principles of solidarity and reciprocity and, therefore, any breakdown of the fundamental relationship between individual rights would be primarily irresponsible action and conduct during this period. Therefore, we cannot really support the proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. In the context of the general debate, Mr Hrvat, please choose as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. According to these views, it is right that some things are nevertheless a little better explained. An interesting debate developed when what is crucial is somehow overlooked. I would even agree with some of the arguments of some representatives of the parliamentary groups. The Government also explained that the fundamental characteristic of the age insurance of farmers is a special type of solidarity. I absolutely agree with that. That's absolutely true. Of course, the Government also notes in its opinion that the fundamental relationship between individual rights is extremely important in such large systems and that the modification of one right justifiably causes a reprisal of changes in the claims of other beneficiaries who receive pension rights. I'd agree with that, too. But what comes out of this? Who actually triggered the crawl to talk about these things? Remember, maybe a month ago we discussed the law on pension rights and invalidity insurance for former military personnel. That's when we didn't even talk about these things. It was argued that this should be arranged, and we arranged it. You were a coalition proposalr, not a government. The means, if we want to be solidarity, then the funds are found, are always found. And it seems to me in a way somewhat misleading that today we are talking about farmers, people or populations that have made a huge contribution or contributed to the existence of farms, the production of healthy food, other vital things that I think are extremely important for Slovenia. Look, it's only one article, just one article, which will allow farmers a more decent life and provide greater social security. As I said before, given their important role in the past, even now and I believe they certainly deserve it in the future. It's about solidarity and nothing else. Look, these are people who don't get any social benefits. Nothing at all. The service in case of a disease, no one's asking about it here today. But this is extremely important. Man, they're mostly older people, sick and not entitled to the service. Also a regression that we talk so much about everywhere or at least in this National Assembly, how important it is for pensioners. That's not what those people who enjoy these pensions get either. Look, we're talking about 2,000 beneficiaries, a little more than 2,000 beneficiaries, and nothing more. We can call it people who are in some way at risk, and they're getting smaller and smaller. People die because they're older people. Why not show them this solidarity and help them in some way? An inequality that's been talked about so much. I think the inequality is that a farmer has a fighter, once more than a farmer who was not a fighter during World War II. I find that unacceptable. They have both done the same work, and it is right that they are equally rewarded for the same work. There's inequality here. The fact is that in the past mandate 2004 to 2008, I have to say here very explicitly also with the great help of the party DeSUS, which has arranged a few things and changed as far as pensioners are concerned. So you can't tell us that we're going to populism, we're going to make laws that are populist, which are actually unreal, etc. As I have already said, with the help of DeSUS, this needs to be said clearly and loudly, pensions are being reconciled twice a year from the previous term of office, i.e. by increasing wages, we have abolished the property premium for the work of the widow's pension, increased the so-called pension regression, adopted in 2008 by the Law on the Protection Allowance to Pensions, increased by 9%, passed by the Single Pension Supplement Act. All of this was done in the previous term. That is why I do not accept this logic, which some people are telling us, that we are the smartest now and we are only now proposing what we could have done before. Look, it's a continuation of some continuity and it's a shame, it's a shame that voters and voters have decided to make the change they've made. I had already said, in explaining my position as a proposaler, that the very strong screams about poverty before the elections were very strong. Those unrealistic rumors about the pension raise, it doesn't even make sense to lose words about it, but people have caught it, believe me, they've been arrested. There was talk of how many new homes for the elderly will be built when you take power. All these promises have been rewarded by people trusting you to lead the country. I believe it's hard to listen when someone tells you something that's been heard before the elections, and now it's very hard to do it. But the fact is, we were going to do it anyway. This law was actually prepared at the end of the previous term and would be tabled immediately. Now I've put it in because we don't have a choice. We expect you to be in solidarity with people who have worked their entire lives. That's all this is about. There is no point in discussing whether or not they paid in the pension fund. We need to talk about people who are only about 2,000. And no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, by 1972 the issue of the application of an old-age pension for farmers had been completely unresolved. That's when the first kind of insurance came in. The system improved in 1984 when the possibility of different levels of insurance for farmers arose. The pension reform established a so-called national or state pension, mainly for those generations of farmers who did not have the possibility of pension and disability insurance in the past period of the former Yugoslavia. In doing so, it must be said that a single contribution was introduced at the outset for all in absolute terms, at the same time covering health insurance, not just pension insurance, and represented less than 10% of all the necessary contributions for the same rights as workers in both registers had to pay. This should be emphasized that there would not remain a false belief in the air that after 1972 no attempt was made to help the farming population in any way or other. Although this matter was handled relatively slowly and gradually, much was done. In this sense, we support this thing all the time. I must say, however, that the problem is that we have, on the proposal before us, a problem of this kind, that more than 10,000 workers over 15 years of working age would have a smaller pension if we did not include them in this model of equalization of remuneration for the full working life of the lowest pension. And then it distorts the financial consequences and things so far as it turns out that it doesn't really make sense to even work if you don't want to land on the lowest pension; you stop working, you wait those years, and the pension is here. This simply does not work, it is a deception to the public, it is a false view of solidarity, which we always support. State pension is in fact a reflection of total solidarity and I must say that this pension has been introduced into the system on the proposal and request of the Slovenian People's Party, which deserves it. This proposal is now actually directed at the Slovenian People's Party, because the SDS offers more in times of crisis than the Slovenian People's Party has demanded in times of relative prosperity for its farmers. So it's a sophisticated voice game, for voters and it's far from true solidarity, to which gentlemen showed their true faces by a law on the coordination of social transfers when they froze seven pensioners' rights, and then only a protective supplement was saved, and everything else is now frozen. At that time, in one year, 2007, pensioners paid as much as EUR 10 and a half million under this heading and continue to pay. This year, too, and in early February, they paid back a lot of money because all of these rights were not harmonised because inflation had fallen and coordination was linked to the growth of living costs, which is far from solidarity, even less than solidarity during the financial and economic crisis, where those who have the smallest benefits are the shortest to live and the hardest to live. Of course it's nice to hear how Slovenian farmer worked his whole life. We confess and we respect. But even workers work their whole lives, and they have a lower pension than the one predicted here for a full-time job if there is no possibility of applying the lowest pension for a full-time job as prescribed. The calculation would be lower for equal labor. But there's one thing. Workers who live in the bloc's settlements don't have land to grow salad. And during their working period they had no opportunity to create some property, but it was realized by many farmers with their hard work over the decades. And they leave this property to someone, and there are other things you can get out of it on the old age of the heirs. And it's the same thing as getting it. This makes it impossible to integrate everything into the country's solidarity system. I know a few examples of farmers who have great soils, as they call it, but live in poverty, and the heirs are waiting for them to die to inherit. I have asked one lady to sell the farm and she will be able to live to the death in a home where she will be provided and will be able to call a taxi on Sunday to take her to mass. And you won't believe, in a similar way, she made this recommendation of mine and thus solved her problem because she doesn't have her pension and was in material distress. There's something else that needs to be said about this whole thing. The DPP was mentioned, the aid allowance and the service. In the previous coalition in this house in Tomšič, we have agreed that we will also grant the farmers an aid and service allowance. I must say that this is a big credit to Mr Stannet Brenčič, who triggered this idea, we immediately supported it, and the agreement was that we will also make it happen. This is in the context of the amendment of the law that addressed the issue of pensioners from other republics. At that time, we recognized the aid and service allowance and the right to an annual allowance for those. There was a deal back then, and I don't know why it didn't happen. Certainly Mr Brenčič and the Slovenian People's Party did not withdraw from this agreement, nor did we, but through the Government then this change did not come and perhaps gentlemen from the SDS have some clever answer to this question why the agreement reached at ministerial level and in Parliament between the coalition parties did not come true. Viewed in full, I think it is true that farmers and pensioners are in trouble because they have low pensions, but if we want to help them, we agree that we will add something within social transfers to make life easier. We will support such proposals, we will also support what the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is preparing in the context of a single supplement, and they will also be included in a single supplement, not just pensioners from a working relationship, and so on. Since there are benefits that are more solidarity than the result of pension and disability insurance, it is also right that this is being resolved within solidarity in the context of social transfers, but not within the framework of the pension fund, since the long-term purpose of regulating the stability of the pension fund is quite contrary to this proposal. Pensions should increasingly reflect the contributions paid and the length of working time and increasingly less funding within the framework of solidarity, which must be exempted from the pension allowance, separated, transferred, in our own way, directly to the social sector of the Ministry of Labour, not to the PPIZ. Then it would be seen how many insurers in this system collect and how much their pensions actually cost. At that time, it will also be clear with the hypothetical account of the individual insured whether and to what extent the contributions cover these pension costs and what solutions will have to be taken to enable them to receive this pension for a longer period of time. I think the Ministry has some ideas. Together, we will try to find the best solutions to regulate pensions, and together we will find solutions to regulate social problems and to achieve solidarity, which we will always support for the benefit of farmers' insurers. They can count on our support in this respect. As far as this law is concerned, we believe that it is populism, and this will not make it possible for it to experience our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The elderly insurance of farmers was provided by the 1972 law. It is based on the principle of solidarity of the whole society. Pensions for which no contributions are paid are certainly not equal to those for which contributions are paid. Of course, we are concerned about how to improve pensions for farmers who have also paid certain funds. But as much as was required, in good faith, this will be enough to survive. The Pension Insurance Act states that pensions do not reflect the amount of contributions paid. But this is not the case, since there is a limit to the payment of pension entitlements, so that all those who had high salaries and adequately paid them in the pension system do not receive much more of these pensions. It is also questionable how it is possible that someone who has worked 10, 12, 13 years, and then for some objective reasons no longer worked, for that time when he was working, he gets nothing, even though he was disbursed into a pension fund. It is unjustifiable that social assistance is higher than pensions for those who have worked and have 30, 31, 32 years of working age to receive less than social assistance. It is true that everything must be taken care of, but there are many of them in our country, especially the Roma population, which is deliberately and tactfully draining the country's budget. That's where it's supposed to be. There are more from day to day, and the country blindly follows them and gives them funds in a container that has no bottom. We have a country in which we are all very proud, a country that has legislation that is supposed to apply to everyone, including the Gypsies. We must end with false solidarity, which we have been following for years, and the rule of non-workers must enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u48	Nice greetings, Mr Vice President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about a topic that requires special attention and also a sense of debate alone. I think that we all know and acknowledge that in Slovenia, which practically started in another country after World War II, then, according to the outcome of this Second World War, the spoils were also divided among the winners, including among the different populations or groups in society, who, in accordance with the decisions of some individuals, were granted the status they were assigned at that time. And today these people who were born at the time, who may have been active or in their teen years, are the ones we are now talking about. We all know that after the war with the farming state and the farmers did not act in the spirit as if the winners of this war or as if they were part of the population that they needed to listen to more. But I think things like the earth's maximum, which is practically comparable farms to Central Europe at the time, are divided into carriages or very small homes. The following were cooperatives, which were in some way also a means of bringing these people together, and at the same time, according to the political boundaries, they also implemented a system of how these people helped build society, a country that was then created. I know a case that my father explained to me how an old father had to decide whether he would continue to have the opportunity to sell a liter of his wine at home, at the inn, or just grow. And then people had to decide one of these things. Compulsory broadcasts were those that were in some way pushed to the ground, and at the end of the day, I remember, from childhood, that with health books of different colors, green, that we were already far away from seeing that we were not working children, in some way marked and also in society differently at that time. I'm certainly not the one who would ever say that something bad happened to me, I think I have a happy youth, that they also taught me hard work on this farm and no lack of any, I have to tell you the truth, we didn't suffer because we created it with our work. It is true, however, that only in the 1970s, 1980s, society as a whole slowly recognized and began to weaken these shackles and that farmers were slowly released into this system of pension and disability insurance by droplets. I remember well, it's been years since my memory has reached a little bit more, how people have been separated, or can pay where they're going to raise money, pay something back, something to move on. And in fact, in the 1970s and 1980s, this system slowly began to be established, and people also slowly began to benefit from it from their work. I think that today, 44, 46 years after the end of World War II, we can peacefully get to know all those living in this country today, thank God Slovenia alone, that in these years there has been a lot of work done and that, as it is necessary to recognize workers, miners, all workers in this state, that agriculture, and that farmers have also contributed a great deal to the fact that we are now in such a beautiful and well-ordered state, a country with a future. I am also very pleased that our pension system, which is based on solidarity and recognition and assistance, is also a category that needs to be helped at some point. There are systems around the world where funds have already been talked about in capitalist regimes, and people who have thought very seriously about their age over the years, and in these last years, they have been virtually unremunerated. I remember talking to a lady who is here in Slovenia from America in an important place and says how sad she must be when her 77-year-old father, who has spent his entire life caring for having a quiet age, drives four hours a day in a taxi to survive in this system. I think it is right that such a system is also in the future and that it in some way takes care of those categories that have been for such or other reasons in the past but have often been unable to help themselves, deprived of hearing today that they are subject to solidarity, that they are shared by some kind of charity as someone who is not entitled to something because they do not capitalise on its stakes, which is much to be heard in recent times. I agree that it is also necessary to assess what belongs to the pension law, what belongs to the solidarity categories in the country, but it would also be right that this debate and reflection on this subject is a good basis for the legislator to prepare other matters, because I see that the proposal in this form will not receive support, that you are also sensitive to this issue and that you take it into account. I am pleased that the National Assembly, in its previous composition, has taken the initiative of Dr Berta Jereb, who has worked most in the framework of the Slovenian People's Party on a state pension project, to take this into account once before, and I am sure that in our mature, responsible society we will find such solutions. In the People's Party, we also support the fact that the state property, the property that we have created in some way in the 1950s and then in the 1990s, even in this century, through the ownership of a titler, we have been in this position all the time that part of this state property, formerly social property, must now be converted into this so-called state property. We have managers of this property, we agree on who will be the best, and let this property be a good basis for our pension system to be sustainable in the future. In this way, we will make the most transparent and in some ways fair to those who have created this property a material basis, from which, in addition to the paid contributions that will be paid regularly, the power to care for generations of pensioners in the future. That is why we will support this proposal ourselves in the People's Party, but if it does not receive the majority support, which was almost obvious from the perspective of the Group of Members, I also call for the spirit of solidarity to be taken into account for this category, which I think is also justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Puksich. He's not here. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I received a proposal for a law specifically dealing with a group of people whose social situation was also highlighted in the previous mandate, I think most strongly by the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, who supported with a great deal of reasonableness all those proposals that went towards greater sensitivity to the unequal rights of pension and health insurance. But when I look at the proposal, it must be said in the same breath that the applicants would have all the opportunity, enough time and also enough money to better prepare and adopt a law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households in the previous mandate. There would be many things to be done, many things to be fixed, for that is the law in which the rights are governed on the basis of solidarity. We did not support the social democrats of the law at that time, and we have pointed out increased imbalances and imbalances. I will not repeat now for all the debaters who have taken over the chronology of the adoption of farm pensions since 1972. And I am not one of those who see solidarity as charity, as mercy, and as something that creates human dignity. However, I am more affected by the debates that have been heard and that go in the direction of increasing intolerance towards those groups of the population that separate themselves from the majority population in some way. Building impatience when you want to solve a question and stand up for a deprived group of the population, and you don't hate another group, you're actually hurting both groups. And that doesn't help make society more connected. Nor can I agree to an obvious or a comparison with the law we have recently adopted concerning the resolution of widow's pension issues by military insurers. At that time, the argument of those on my side who opposed this was that the basis for the pension assessment was the contribution paid. And in the case of the widows of military insurers, it was the fact that these were work rights, but only one part of it would be the possibility that the State made available to other widows that they could apply in one part the higher compensation due to their husband's higher pension. At that time, too, it was possible to deal with those who did not give accurate information. However, when we talk about solidarity and when we talk about the financial picture of an individual, it is particularly important to note in social transfers that other social transfers also take account of the property of an individual exercising the right to transfer. And that is why this proposal seems unacceptable to me because it does not fit into solving the problem in such a way that it would be a question or that this right would be comparable to the rights of other pensioners or other recipients of social transfers. And at a time when it is increasingly possible to hear a surprisingly repulsive statement about the older population. And when we talk about the necessity of amending pension legislation. I cannot overlook the fact that whenever we talk about how to regulate pensions, it is for one part, and this large part, the Slovenian population, this issue, which is accompanied by great uncertainty and intimidation. Also because we are sometimes very clumsy with the provision of information to the public. Just remember how it upsets the pension population, not just the pension population, the news of the possibility or the thought of raising the retirement age. I cannot support this bill, nor can others. However, I support all those solutions that will be in the working group, but I am sure that they will consider this very carefully, but that they will ensure that the various pension benefits and also all pension recipients will be treated in such a way that there will be no major discrepancies between pension beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The law submitted and its implementation seems to me the moral and social duty of Slovenian society in relation to agriculture. What we have heard here - I must say that I was born in a peasant family and that I have not been aware of this shameful lowness and shameful attitude towards the elderly, the destitute farmers who have practically left the diapers, worked and worked. And someone tell me a farmer who doesn't deserve this full minimum pension! This would also be the practical end of Stalinism on Slovenian soil, at least in this area of relation to a farmer who has so deeply absorbed himself in this society and has taught many generations that we still hear completely Stalinistic thesis in one of the performances. He tries again and again to create this chauvinistic attitude towards the farmer and the division and hatred between the worker and the farmer who was created artificially in the previous system. And I'm sorry it's not over for us to hear it again. Look, I also have to say that of these, as we have heard, some more than 2 thousand beneficiaries, I firmly believe that of these 80% of those who come from families that were either by any means partisan, partisan, because agriculture has made an incredible possible contribution to Slovenian partisanism, liberation from fascism and Nazism. And it was never appreciated this contribution properly and also by this logic, by this definition and on this basis they deserve the same as those fighters - these peasant fighters - because also there is chauvinism built in, I have seen. Those there are only four hundred and fifty euro pensions allocated if they are up to 30. 9. 1943 included in the partisan struggle. See how many "Mayan Bugs" have received years and years of privileged contributions and I do not know what privileges and many of those "Mayan Bugs" were such that at the beginning of the war, mostly not from farmers' species and farm logs, German or German-oriented. And then they became "May bug" and, of course, immediately approached the other side and enjoyed all the privileges. And now listen here, in this hall, that farmers have been positively discriminated for the rest of their lives, that such a base and such a pension, which is low, has nothing to do with full-time work! Let one tell me one farmer who hasn't completed his full-time job and another 20% more if he's reached the age of fifty-five. You know, that farmer who lived to be fifty-five years old is, according to today's criteria or all the time, he's been working eight hours full-time, full-time worker at least from his tenth year forward - hard work! And yet these farmers, this is actually just before my generation, carried on their shoulders all that exploitation of the previous system to agriculture, when it was actually defiled. They were given the swearing "farmer" which was artificially launched, this is the worst swearing which, unfortunately, has ever held back until now, defiance of man: "Let him be a farmer. "The farmer." And I tell you that we were somehow marked by all those who came from this state, because in diastration we had a green card for doctors who were some kind of half-assed insurance - in my diastody and the predecessors were nothing. And I remember how terrible the fear was that someone was going to get sick, because this often meant destroying the farm and there was no insurance, even though they worked as ants all the family members. And now to hear about the positive discrimination of farmers here, I have to say I'm going to throw up. And at the same time guarding the work against the farmer. Workers and farmers are one, both workers are basically workers and I hope that without this protection of farmers workers there would not be among the workers of one who would say that someone does not deserve something of the farm species; and vice versa. That's all that's going to protect those who caused the tycoons or ordered them to own companies 12 years ago, and who could have stopped the typo that was on a journey they faked. With one of the tycoon's unjustifiably seized money, we could cover that difference. There are about 50 such tycoons in Slovenia. I must say that I am against any intolerance in this regard, even to any ethical group. This is what some will take for granted that farming is now ethically impatient and from another cup wants some settlement, some solidarity for themselves. I'm totally in the middle of this. Let me also say that it is actually time for this to end - this Stalinism - and that this preservation, this chauvinism between the worker and the farmer, is over. And that, in fact, the Slovenian farmer must have a representative from here to the European Parliament, and he has not actually had one in the European Parliament so far because no one has identified himself. That is why I am glad that I was at a meeting yesterday when our former colleague, Mirko Zamernik, said as a candidate for the European Member: "I will go to the Committee on Agriculture in the European Parliament." As I know that he is also a farmer, he actually has some forest to work on, so he will be able to compete for agricultural rights at the European level. So we can actually make something out of those funds for the farmer. I am sure that there will be no preferential vote for such parties who say that farmers have been positively discriminated against and that they have shown hatred for agriculture and employment, and that this indoctrination with Stalinism has been captured so deeply that they do not even realize that there should be preferential votes for those who are willing to fight in Brussels for a farmer. And our former colleague, Mirko Zamernik, is one I can trust, one who has never fought for himself and has not taken any privileges within these benches. So, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very careful how the vote is to be taken. And I call on those farmers and those who are watching the transfer of our session to be careful also when voting, who will push against this miserable little money that is being spent and thrown through the window in spite of the recession, and here they will be against those who have worked so hard - and I must say that I do not know one who does not deserve it in life. Let me tell you one more case. When apples were worked all day, and apples were picked up, then a farmer drove them six miles [6 km] with cows on the wagon, for a thousand kilograms [1,000 kg] of apples he did not get enough to buy those black slippers that were for exercise, so elastic. This was the exploitation of farmers; this was the price of agricultural crops. And, of course, he couldn't pay, and he didn't have a chance, because the system didn't allow him, because the farmer wasn't human for that society back then. And now let us end this Stalinism in this country and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u54	Good-bye, Your Honor! To begin with, I would say that I agree with Mr Jerovsk in particular in this conviction of intolerance and speculation regarding members of other ethnic communities regarding the topic that we are dealing with today. And it seems to me that from the first point of the agenda, when we talked here about preventing domestic violence and how important it is not to encourage, encourage violence, some debaters have learned absolutely nothing. At the very next item in the agenda, they did exactly what we condemned all the members here. This is probably one of the few things I can agree with Mr Jerovsk. Perhaps I can agree with that as far as these apples are concerned. I earned my first working time as an apple picker in Italy. And I must say that the system was transparent and consistent there. I can agree that Slovenian farmer did not have this happiness as Italian and was too late to be included in this system of health and pension and disability insurance after the war, so today such things as they are in front of us can happen. One more thing would be worth mentioning is that, unlike the Slovenian farmer, the Italian farmer did not warm up cooperatives, but he gladly entered it, at least in northern Italy, where I had this opportunity, because the cooperative was really a matter of initiative from below and it meant development. And with the encouragement of money coming from Marshall’s plan, until then very poor areas have prospered to be one of Italy’s richest parts. But, as it is said, I am not sure that we are here today to correct some of the alleged collective guilt that the state of Slovenia has towards agriculture, but we are here today because we are dealing with one deficiency, according to the proposaler in the law on disability and pension insurance. And I think it's too much to talk about suffering, so to speak, farming that I don't deny, as I said before, but it would be good to focus on what is really the subject of today's law. In short, not repairing some collective guilt, there is no ideological background here, but it is the exercise of some individual right, which naturally arises, in this case, from the contributions paid. And while I can agree that these contributions, when paid, were too small and that now the money coming from them is insufficient for a decent life, as I can also agree with the warnings that in all things it is always necessary to look at the property situation of the person receiving this farm pension. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the pension system is one very sensitive system, fragile and that we have managed to maintain it quite well so far. And I must say that even the present generations that are coming, we are on one side in a situation similar to those of the farmers who were then protected. In short, trust in the pension system is small, we are not regularly employed, often not. You should also know that the maternity allowance received by a student who has worked all day through student work or business contracts is very small. Why? Because paid contributions to the system are very low [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Therefore, at this point, it would be very prudent to change this system - if any. [[...]] But the problems you're talking about here are to solve through other social transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the pension system, then at least most of us think about the first, this is a positive pension pillar, a system of contributions that is compulsory and under the auspices and control of the state. It is part of the so-called public cash register. The other parts of the system, which are the second and third pillars, have unfortunately not come to life in Slovenia as expected. All, most of the debates are focused only on the first part of this system. Today's bill represents a partial change in this system and I certainly will not support it. There are many reasons, but in particular I believe that, as this system is required, as the pension system is one way of thinking, it is not possible to resolve many issues so quickly and easily and with ease, because this partial problem that we are dealing with today is not the only one that needs to be changed. So once again, I will not support this marriage. Perhaps the current time of the financial and economic crisis, when the number of unemployed increases dramatically and the economic situation deteriorates in general, is indeed not a suitable time for sudden changes in pension insurance, in particular. However, we will have to deal openly with the problems our pension system faces and find solutions to these problems as soon as possible. These problems are not Slovenian specialities. Other countries of the European Union as well as other developed countries are also affected by such difficulties. Many of them have already come far beyond us in their search for solutions, because their systems are much more transparent and separate from that part that is linked to the contributing level and the supporting system and to the percentages paid by the active and the passive parts. I think we're going to have to think a lot more about those in the future, and how and in what way this cash register, we're going to have to make this cash register much more transparent. Therefore, all the problems encountered by this system are not simply to be thrown under the carpet and disguised with illusion and vision, so that it can be easily and easily solved in one way or that somehow everything will be solved by additional coercion, economic growth, with more births, etc. I'll say it again, so simple and fast and it won't work. To do this, we will have to gather much more courage, much more ideas, and much more patience. We will look for much more dialogue and tolerance, and in social dialogue we will have to show and prove ourselves in the search for optimal solutions. Last but not least, I think we can handle this patience, especially because we will have to show it to future young generations. The response, which will be important, will also be a very sour apple, in which we will have to take a very serious and timely bite and we will have to show the system, from the left and from the right and the green, the red, the blue and the yellow, very objectively, in such a way as to say no to young people, those who have 20, 30 years before retirement, and not those who are little older than 10 years of age do not know how and under what conditions they will retire. I think we're gonna find the right solutions. However, we must not deceive ourselves with false information, how and when and how this system and law changed, how pensions were coordinated, and how many times a year. These are basic things that Members must have some basic feeling about. And in reasoning solutions, let's not be deceiving the one that will lead us to some solutions. I think that separating all those matters and transparency in our pension system is the goal that we all have to pursue if we really want to live from the pensions we have earned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. This proposal for a law is necessary, at least until the pensioner's pensioner's pension is realised, so that every pensioner will receive 1,000 pensions. We are also waiting for the promise of today's coalition that the minimum wage will be 1,000 euros and will be significantly better for all of us. Today, this elderly or family pension of farmers reminds us of a poor scholarship or social assistance, as well as something else. According to my assessment, all farmers, all those old farmers who insist on their farms, which preserve the countryside, who fight for survival, who are on the western or northern borders, and who will also be in the future, even though the borders have already fallen, would have been some sort of advocate of Slovenia. Jóžef Jerovšek also mentioned the role farmers and farms played during the national liberation fight. I am joining in because they provided food supplies, not necessarily to visit, but in one way or another, they helped the partisan movement and contributed tremendously to the victory of World War II. Of course, the coalition has its voting power, if it does not agree with this offer, by this law, we can modify it accordingly and amend it accordingly. However, it would be good if we did not put up with some communist rhetoric in the National Assembly, as well as a future dispute between the worker and the farmer. Both workers and farmers in this country must gain enough to live decently, not only to survive. It is not good that there is a category, as these farmers are today pushed to some social edge. And we know that in some parts, such as Prekmurje, including Koroška, some farmers are struggling with great, great poverty. EUR 5 million, as much as this law would require - what is EUR 5 million, this is Mr Kramar's five departures - and we could do our farmers a great service. Today, there have been a number of sermons about populism, and there is likely to be some more of these sermons. In particular, in the last term, our coalition, which was in power at the time, was hearing reports of populism regarding free lunch for high school students, free kindergarten for another child, last year's assistance for pensioners. Okay, well, if I pop people by giving people something to try to help people survive, if it's populizing that you're reducing social distress in the country, then populism is definitely a positive category.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would like to count the proposal for a proper opening of issues relating to farm pensions. These issues are justified and fall within the responsibilities that this government has and will have when it does a full analysis of what the way in which individual pension and disability benefits are actually regulated means and whether the rights are properly regulated. With or without smiling, I firmly believe that it is hard not to admit the problem, but even more difficult to solve the problem on its own, because it will certainly reach out to some other issues - the lowest pensions, state pensions, invalidity pensions - which are in different ways arranged and have major problems, various supplements that the pension system has and so on. That makes it very reasonable for me to ask these questions, but I do not think that it is good, colleagues and colleagues, if you want to either ideologicalize them or associate them with the question who is against, who is against, who understands more, who understands less farmers, what they gave or did not give in time after the war - all these are justifiable things, but they are not as uniform as they may be trying to show. I remember in 1972 and the conversation about the pension system and the farm insurance, it was not easy to achieve it, not even with the workers, because at the time it was well aware of the whole system, that it was going to be full of solidarity, which was initially and also was not ideal, but it gave a minimum right, which at that time meant much more than nothing and it developed later on. I'm not for us to stand by, but to take steps overnight and recklessly and not. As a result, I find the position presented by the Government justified. Reasonedly in terms of warnings that, as proposed, the problem cannot be solved and justified in the work where it implies a comprehensive analysis of the functioning and problems in the pension system. The second thing I would like to say is, more or less friendly, and partly unfriendly comparison of farm pensions with farmers' fighting pensions. These are two different bases and also the formal relationships we have. If we have committed ourselves in 1990 to recognizing in article 18 of the Constitutional Law on the exercise of the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, but not only that of the fighting pensions as an integral part of the system we have introduced, then it does not seem wise for us to deal with this today in any way, but to consider our obligation 18 years ago as we have adopted it. Thirdly, I would like to say that it does not seem good, correct, and not fair, to compare the amendment and addition of the law on the pension and disability insurance of military insurers, through which there are about 50 widows after these military insurers, Slovenk, all were insured and received their personal pension, compared to the regulation of farm insurance. I think it's completely different things and it's not right to compare them in this way; especially not to talk about the fact that the regulation of this issue has triggered a legitimate repulsion, other solutions. That's absolutely not true! That she introduced new privileges - that is not true; she returned rights that had already been established by 2005. Do not shake your head, go look at the regulations, by 2005 they were enforced, in 2005 with the latest amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which, apart from the applicants, few people knew what they meant and were abolished or written in a way that only applies to those insured who exercise pension rights under the general rules, but not according to the rules for military insurers. The amount alone, you know, is about €50 to €60 a month, which is not linked to any high income, because high incomes are excluded from the possibility of additional entitlements on the basis of the former spouse's pension insurance. Please, don't compare it! If you compare this in terms of arguments to yourself, I don't mind that you compare this in a way that is right and fair for every thing to see and regulate - I don't object. However, if you say that we have introduced certain privileges and that we have a different relationship with one, another, third, especially when you speak of former military insurers who have long since died and have not done any harm to Slovenia's independence, these older ones, that I will not use any more direct expression of "ma'am", who say they have made the only mistake of falling in love with the wrong people 50, 60 and more years ago, and probably not having to be particularly exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Croat as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. A number of the debaters who oppose the implementation of this amendment have now spoken, and I think it is right that I, as a candidate, respond to some of the allegations that I think are incorrect. And I'll start with Mr. Potsch. So at the end of the day, when he said we were troublesome about fighting pensions. We don't bother them at all! I made that clear in the introduction as a proposal. So I'm speaking as a proponent of this law, and I know what I've done and what I've written, so I think it's fair for you to admit that this is not a matter of the text of the law itself. That's not what we're talking about. We are, I'm just saying that we need to equalize all the farmers, whether the farmer was a fighter or not. So some already enjoy what we want to enjoy all the farms. Well, some people already have that. Why don't we all have farmers then? So, talk about who triggered the reptile. Look, the fact is that the Ministry wrote in its explanation - I've quoted this before, and I think it's right that we all understand what this is about. "And the amendment of one right justifiably causes a reprieve of changes in the claims of other beneficiaries who receive" etc. Look, the fact is, that's when she got involved. You have activated the beach with these requirements, but you can speak in any way you like. But in my opinion, the plasma was released at the time. But that's not why we tabled this change of law. That's what I have to say. That's not the reason. At the time, however, the plasma was also released. So, if I go from the beginning, one of the debaters at the beginning talked about extending the working hours for the employees, and we talked about going into populism. You know, I'll tell you what, the Slovenian farmer's working hours have been extended a long time, and that time is to the death. A Slovenian farmer works as long as he can work. Some farmers, unfortunately, if they get sick, have no possibility of receiving these social benefits. We're talking about a service that's not there. You know, earlier it was said that there was also talk of regression. Earlier it was said that at times the Slovenian farmer feared not to get sick. Even now they're afraid of getting sick! You can imagine these farmers or farmers, any way they've been insured in this way or they're getting their pensions due to the farming work they were doing. These people are still afraid of getting sick today. And that's not right. We are in 2009, and this should no longer be the case. And what all this is based on is solidarity and nothing else. Only on solidarity. Well, I also have to comment on Mr Žnidaršič's explanation, which he said - I mean, I was surprised at this statement - in the sense that some are working and others are sitting at the crossroads and waiting for the right age. That's unacceptable! But in this tone, Mr. Žnidaršič discussed earlier. He also talked about the implementation of the social allowances that this was coordinated in Tomšič in the previous term. Where it stopped, I think he might know, because it was them, the party DeSUS, who called for the guardians of pensioners' rights. However, I must make it clear that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group agreed to this proposal at the time. Where it stopped, he should have told me. There were some indications that this bill could be implemented or proposed in the previous term. Of course, laws, even systems can be improved at any time. It is true that the law could have been adopted earlier, but we have assessed, given that we no longer have our own government, that all improvements concerning pensioners must be continued and that we must not stop at all. In the previous term, I have explained earlier what has been done for the pensioners and we intend to continue, regardless of whether the coalition MPs will make any law or wait for the Government - however, I think that if we wait too long, it will not be good. Contributions paid, that's what my colleague Roshya was talking about earlier. You know, it has already been made clear by the Government that the contributions paid here do not have much weight, this is a particular type of solidarity, which the Government or the Ministry has clearly written in its explanation. Some say that the main reason for rejecting partiality is because we regulate something partial, we don't have a system law, etc. And bring it to you, this law that will settle all these questions! It's actually a small change in the law. So, it's about equating some of the rights already acquired. This comparison between a farmer and a farmer who was a fighter of the national liberation war seems to me to have to be levelled, because some already enjoy it and it is unacceptable to me why we separate people into multiple and lesser jobs, but when they did the same work, they worked on farms, worked for some 50 years or more. We need to be aware that there are 2,000 excuses here, something more. This population is disappearing, these are old people who are afraid that they won't get sick, these are people who don't actually have any rights. They get some charity, and that's all they've got, but they've been doing their whole life! And that's not right. That's it. We're not taking anything from anyone, but we want to take care of a Slovenian farmer who's been waiting too long for this arrangement. It's solidarity and it's not about deception, it's not about populism, it's about solidarity that we in the National Assembly, in my opinion, if we step together, we can easily achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u63	It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u64	Just an explanation. I thought, and now I have received confirmation, Mr Croat, that arguing that fighters have a higher pension than other farmers shows a desire to equalise this right. Because if you object to this, then you object to the fact that - and I'm not talking about height - it's based on the right distinction, given that everyone has the same difference in their work as farmers, farm fighters, or work in a way or because of participation in a national liberation fight. These were rights that were established until 1990, partly in the case of invalidity insurance, partly in the case of pension. And if this is challenged, it is the fundamental constitutional charter that I am talking about. It's possible, just don't deny it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you. A representative of the Government, Mrs Copač Dark, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u66	Good afternoon. Perhaps a little clarification regarding the social security of the rural population. Because all the debates we are listening to today and are positive because it is right to think about these things, and many more things need to be settled in this area - yet. When we talk about the social security issue of any group within society, we should bear in mind that there are two different systems through which social security is ensured in modern societies. And this is the first system of basic social security, and the second is the system of social assistance. Both of them differ significantly in their logic. The social security system - it is solidarity between those who pay, and usually this is horizontal solidarity and it shows how much I pay, and that's what I get. As social insurance is a specific element of solidarity involved in this system, but it is primarily solidarity between payers, not between groups that do not pay into this system. On the other hand, we have a system of social assistance, where we are dealing with our social solidarity with all the vulnerable and those who need help. When we are talking about the question of the rural population and the rural pensions, much has been said in this direction, but the system did not allow payment until 1972, so that the interim transitional solution was provided, which is not ideal, but was agreed in accordance with the social options of the day. The government's argument was that when we go in a partial way to solve things, we're actually breaking things down. Why this argument? Because it goes into the social security system, we intervene in this way and increase the rights of a group that has not paid into this system. I agree - this does not mean that the issue of social security of the rural population is not problematic and does not matter. It is important, but this issue needs to be addressed within the framework of the second system we have in the social assistance system. The government has taken a holistic approach to addressing this issue in both areas, in the area of social security and in the area of social assistance. In the area of social security, we have approached the modernisation of the pension system, as has already been said today, in which we are following primarily the objective of long-term financial sustainability and, on the other hand, the dignity of pensions, and above all, it is very important to highlight intergenerational solidarity. On the other hand, we are also approaching a comprehensive reform of the social assistance system in a way to start at the beginning. So we're preparing a study on minimum cost of living. This study will be the basis for reforming all social transfers linked to ensuring an existing minimum. However, when we are in the area of the rural population, it should be pointed out that it is essential that all the measures in this area, both our ministry and the agricultural ministry, be put together and look at the results of these measures. Because we know that the Ministry of Agriculture grants a number of subsidies to farmers, and we also need to look at these subsidies in the light of certain social policies, to examine things, to see how this is done in the practice of application and then to ensure social security, of course, for all and for rural people. This has to do with this because the proposal by the proposer interferes with the social security system in such a way as to increase the scope of rights for someone who has not paid into this system. That's why he's connected, and that's why I'm talking about a social assistance system. Because if the social security of the rural population is a problem - and no one denies it - this problem needs to be addressed in an integrated manner within systems where it concerns ensuring the solidarity of the whole society towards vulnerable populations and not within the social security system, where solidarity is involved among those who invest in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, the applicants of old and family pensions under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers and the beneficiaries of old or family pensions under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers or their spouses are entitled to a pension of full pension. In practice, this means, in principle, that the current farmer's pension would be raised by 100%, which means that it is an amount higher than, for example, the highest pension, together with a 40-year pension allowance. Of course we've heard that before. Farmers, however, need only 15 years of retirement to obtain a pension, so there must be a difference. The proposed amount is also higher than the minimum net salary paid by workers for full-month hard work. And when we have all this data in front of our eyes, we must be aware that these are not high amounts, but we must systematically regulate this in the future, that when we come to a law that will regulate the whole picture in an integrated manner, especially those who are most at risk of social risk, we will, of course, be able to make the situation easier. If there is a reason to improve the social situation of beneficiaries of farm pensions, then we need to know that we still have many categories of people in Slovenia whose benefits are in fact very low and whose material situation should necessarily be improved. Unfortunately, we have limited opportunities as a society, especially in modern times, because we cannot share more than we create, even though we would like to. I believe that not one and the other, i.e. both the coalition and the opposition, are not against the pensioner, or against the farmers, or against the young, but we have come to the situation, and we find this on both sides, that we need to regulate the situation of everyone, because it is not possible to go any further at some point. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are particularly sensitive to the needs of the people and, above all, their social situation, and this has also been shown in the adoption of certain measures to combat the economic and financial crisis. If you remember, in the past mandate, the Group of Social Democrats was the first to point out the devastating consequences of high inflation on people, mainly with the lowest income. If we remember, inflation in 2007 was also more than ten percent for some basic foods, such as bread. At that time, the Group of Social Democrats proposed a unique revalorisation of all social benefits, which the former authorities had practically frozen by the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers. And whatever we look at, this freezing has also led to the situation we are facing today. On the part of the then government and the government coalition, which was also followed faithfully by the bill-maker, the parliamentary group was not then given an understanding of how to regulate and this must be recognised. On the contrary, our fellow Members who were sitting in the government at the time were also somewhat insensitive to human distress. And instead of taking action, the then economic minister suggested that people should eat an old day’s bread. [[The ad from the bench.]] That is exactly what the Minister of Economy said in the previous government. And instead of systematically saving, we sometimes play with some verbal relationships that have the most impact on people who live in such or other situations. At that time, however, the president of the government even explained that they were dumpsters, one way or another, full of bread. And that the situation obviously doesn't have to change. We must also remember that this, at least on paper, was a time of high economic growth, when the country would also have better access to measures to improve the social situation. It surprises me, therefore, and surprises me with a new sense of excitement for the people, whom we see mainly among the Members of the largest opposition party. This, as well as the many other proposals we have seen recently, raises a logical question why the drafter has not proposed such a solution in the previous term. But of course that's not an excuse. We need to move on, we need to find new solutions. And when we gather enough strength together to coordinate with the laws, we will also be able to come up with concrete solutions. I will not support the proposed law alone, because its only intention is to be liked today by farmers' pensioners, tomorrow by someone else, but it is not the whole system of status for those who are most at risk. And of course, as some have already warned, we have also received the Government's opinion on the bill, where it is also very systematically explained why some of the solutions contained in the bill are not appropriate and what this means for the existing system. Therefore, it might not be bad for all of us to learn about the viewpoint. After all, it is our responsibility to propose some solutions. Our common goal and our responsibility within the National Assembly must be to take care of socially disadvantaged groups in an integrated way, not just for older people, not just for farmers, not just for young people - for all. The crisis has affected many different age groups, so many generations, but not only the crisis. Even when there was no crisis, many lived on the brink of poverty, but despite the booming economy, there was no listening to solve the situation. I hope there will be more on both sides in the future. Dear colleagues and colleagues, prepare a comprehensive law, as prepared by the Government, and we will be able to compare and I am sure that this will make it easier for us to come to a comprehensive solution, to the best law that we can all agree on. But I think in fact that sometimes this is not the interest of some political parties in this national assembly. The interest of one party is to be liked, to propose laws that are difficult to say 'no', and I regret that these solidarityists do not have certain political options when they are in power. But once again, that's not an excuse. I wish that when something is proposed that when a political option receives responsibility for taking over power, it will also apply. A little more honesty, and we'll come up with a comprehensive solution. It is certain that in these times all the goals of the age group, all generations and all those who are socially weak will have to be taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Clearly, this debate, which is now taking place around this law, has hit the right place. At the same time, I would just like to propose to all those who discuss the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we know how to present our views on our own, and we do not need any of the coalition on the other hand. And also all those who summarize the statements I propose to quote them, but not to interpret them, because it confuses in fact the very essence. I also propose to all those who are full of equality and solidarity, that this solidarity be demonstrated not only when the Government proposes a partial proposal or a partial proposal from the coalition, which each of you proposes, causes a new imbalance in the pension system, but also that you show solidarity when you propose something from the opposition groups from the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are just to remind you, propose and consider on Friday a comprehensive set of measures to address the social and economic crisis, and that was not right. We introduced five laws, and they weren't right. It is obvious, however, that there are thousands of ways to find a good purpose that is somehow reinterpreted or explained as bad. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that it is procedural for all those who discuss this law and those who have bad intentions to look first at themselves, at their views and do not deal so much with those who propose these matters. When we proposed in the previous mandate and also launched an action by the Office for the Protection of Competition to determine whether cartel price-building arrangements had taken place, the information officer prevented this review by its activities. And also in the previous term, we have proposed a law to grant a one-off allowance, and we have also proposed a very similar law in this mandate, but the coalition has not been attached to this law to all those with low incomes, and we have proposed that these matters be covered, even though you have a coalition contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u71	Well, this was more of a debate than a procedural proposal. The panellist, Mr Hrovat, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thanks again for saying that. I also have to give a few words to the Ministry, the Secretary of State. I agree when you said it was solidarity between the payers and those who enjoy it. I agree with that. But what will you do to enforce this in this systemic law that is so much talk today? I wonder how far you are, whether it's just some idea, whether it's already on paper, or whether we can expect it this year, the second year or the last year. You know, it's different to say that something's about to be arranged in some systemic law, but it's good to know when it's really gonna happen. And, look, solidarity - social solidarity is a unique addition, but here, I think, we agree. But also where you can, so you said, but here we can decide - yes, you refused! You refused to go to the government and then, as obedient coalition MPs, they also refused to do so. But this proposal came from the opposition species again, but not because we did not do so this previous year or the previous term, but because we want to continue to take good measures for Slovenian pensioners, whether it be workers' pensioners or farmers' pensioners. So, the fact is that you rejected the social solidarity measure, that is, this one-off pension supplement. I can't understand that you at the Ministry treat subsidies to farmers as a social transfer. Do you even know what you're talking about? If you think this is true, then it is no wonder that Slovenian agriculture is where it is. As far as Mr. Levanič is concerned, that's all I'd say. In the SD you're very sensitive to the socially endangered, that's what he said. But why didn't you support the one expensive supplement we proposed? Why not? You're in the previous term, and now you're not. I would like to know when you will propose at least one law - I have not seen it in this term, not heard - which will improve the status of those most threatened. I've really never seen him before, and I'm looking forward to him. Do you think it's fair that we have the kind of arrangement we have? So this relationship of a farmer on one side and a farmer who was a fighter of the NOV. Is that fair? Is that fair? Is it fair that one has a social allowance and the other does not? Is that fair? That's not fair. And with this proposal we are proposing, we are addressing this issue. And that should be accepted today. Just this and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, many of those who do not have a direct connection to this law are clearly perceived in this debate, but there are also accusations that are far from justified. Let me start with the first to accuse the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are now trying to subjugate the farming population and that we are interfering with this law with the competence of another political party. I think that every political party in Slovenia, if it is good, if it has an adjustment programme, must take care of all the populations. And the Slovenian Democratic Party is certainly one of these. We don't care about the farming population, we don't care about pensioners, we don't care about working people, we don't care about young people, we don't care about students, and we don't care about children and students. As a proof of when you tell us why you did not adopt this law, which we are considering today, in the previous term. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition! Four years was not enough to do. In the previous term, however, we made sure that we have a free kindergarten for the other child and each of the next children, we made sure that the pensions were coordinated as they could be done at the time, we provided a student diet, we provided scholarships. And also this law, which we are considering today, would certainly have been adopted if we were once again in the coalition and if we had the government. It is true, however, that the Slovenian Democratic Party supports all categories of people who are loyal to their country, who are correct and, of course, honest. And they certainly belong to this category of people, or they are very justified mainly by our farms. Especially those to whom this law is intended. There are only 2 thousand who would be justified in giving them some amount that would enable them to survive. I know a lot of people like that who are really on the edge of the social bottom, but they've been working their whole lives, not just eight hours, but from dawn to dark, and all weekends. Therefore, the evidence that farmers did not contribute to the pension register or that they did not work seems to me to be more than demagogic. Who else could have contributed more to the preservation of the vocabulary? And I haven't been talking since 1941. The Slovenian people would certainly not have been preserved without farmers in the history of Slovenia. Even if we're talking about the NOB period. I'm sure the NOB wouldn't have been as successful as it was without our peasant people. They are the ones who have worked hard to provide food for people in cities and also for those who have fought for Slovenia, not for those who have made a revolution, but also for those who have fed from it. The impressions that farmers are now in a position to work to have land to produce food. See, in Slovenia every year I don't know how many hectares of land were in the desert, but sometimes it was a working area, they were fields. Anyone who wants to work, including those in the block, those who don't have land if they want to, can rent it for a minimum of money, and many can get even free of charge, and they can process it. I also know a lot of these people from the bloc's settlements, which have a nursery rental, where they work mostly out of joy and not least to grow something. But here to look for a reason that farmers now have some privileged position that they can also work, and that they would not be entitled to that amount, I think it is more than unfair to them. To know what is typical of our farmers; I am sure that we can all agree on this: honesty, diligence and, above all, loyalty to the Slovenian state. If they were corrupt, like thousands of people in Slovenia, when a system of social transfers or aid is being misused in one way or another, when searching for loopholes in the law, many of those who are now at the edge of survival could be in use of social assistance, support, but not that now with that portion of food they have produced, in fact, life and can't afford anything. I wonder how much they contributed to the pension fund of our military officers. When we adopted this law equally non-systematic, without any concrete calculations or justifiable reasons. Neither the tolar, the dinar or the euro contributed to the Slovenian pension fund, and they now have this privilege at the expense of the coalition members. I would like to know how much they contributed not to the pension register, but, in general, to the budget "exploded" that acted against Slovenia, and now they will start to apply compensations. I wonder how many of them there were. Nothing! But they'll make sure they try to do all these things later. To talk about the pension fund or to pay only to those who contribute directly to the pension fund. It doesn't really hold anymore. The active population that invests in pension funds is too small for all beneficiaries to be able to pay their pensions. And here this balancing or balancing must also be provided by the State - either from the budget or in another way. Farmers are certainly those who, in one way or another, have contributed that Slovenia is at this stage of development and also in a financial sense in this status as it is. That's why I think these readings are more than unfair, unfair and cynical. You're saying these aren't systemic solutions. How many systemic solutions have you supported in this mandate in the Slovenian Democratic Party? Not one of them. In the last week, on Friday, a set of 68 measures that would take immediate effect, 5 laws in this package, but you have a smooth rejection, but you have no idea, you have no will, and obviously we will not get it from you. Today, it has been heard several times that, in the previous term, we have rejected those proposals in the coalition, which at the time were populism for the coordination of social transfers. That law then may have offered some adjustments to these transfers, but it introduced a systemic way of regulating it in Slovenia. And if you are already so aware, six months or more of a government coalition, you could change this marriage if you had that desire and will in December of last year. But for you the priority was the law on legal tariffs, decisions, deleted, all those groups of people who essentially harm Slovenia. But as a priority, you have introduced and followed quick, urgent procedures to change the law. If this law is truly the same as you say, on the coordination of social transfers, invest and accept it quickly. Believe me, we will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not like you now, when this law, which would really give the few deserving Slovenian farmers and farmers a decent life as much as they have left. The eyewitnesses were also said today by the pensioner's party that farmers with property should sell it to ensure their age. I believe they are, too, but I know a lot of people who don't actually have anything and have nothing to sell. And those who have property, generally or to a large extent, here their children or heirs provide them with the level of social protection that ensures them as much a decent life as they can. I expect that, given that this has been said by the government and the coalition, that a system law will be prepared, a systemic solution for all categories of people to be seen in the National Assembly. But I'm afraid it's on your part the power to expect the abolition of free kindergarten, the abolition of student diet, and many other laws that have been for our people. At the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were for our people at the time of our rule, as well as now that we are in opposition. And so, of course, we will move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that this time we have again the subject of Slovenian agriculture, especially because the region from which I come is very much affected. Unfortunately, however, we are once again hearing that the opposition is about to raise political points, even from a party that, at the pre-election time for the last parliamentary elections, has been adamantly predicting the absurd amounts of pensions and then has undoubtedly accumulated a large, large number of political points. We hear that the opposition is populism, that this is not a systemic solution, that the opposition wants to be liked and so on. For me, a farmer's old-age pension of €227 is even a little bit more and does not guarantee a man a decent life is not populism. For me, this is a fact, especially the responsibility of policy or the responsibility of the government to find a suitable solution and correct this anomaly. A solution that will also enable farmers who have spent their entire lives working for the modest survival of their families to live a life of dignity and dignity. They also worked out that all of us had cheap food, that as a result all of us were better and easier to live. Again, all possible arguments are being asked why such a law cannot be supported. Perhaps, however, the reason is that the law is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I hope and wish that, like practice in recent times, a similar law will be passed by the Government in the next 14 days. One argument is also that in this case there is no basis for past work and contributions paid. In other cases, this was not the case, nor was the argument of the contributions paid. In this mandate, we have discussed and corrected, and today several times has been said, the law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers. By the end of March, we had already settled the rights of widows after former military insurers in this law, so very quickly, perhaps very important. That wasn't a systemic solution either. Or is it? The material annexed to the law stated: "The purpose of the law is to eliminate the discriminatory distinction between widows or widowers according to the type of insurance of their deceased partner for which there is no reasonable explanation. The adoption of the law will also improve the above-mentioned category of widows' material status. The bill follows in particular the principle of fairness and equal treatment." Does the law that we are considering today not follow the principle of justice and equal treatment? Isn't there solidarity? Yeah. The law follows the principle of fairness and equal treatment and, above all, solidarity. One of today's discussers, who today is determined against the regulation of old farmers' pensions, said to regulate pensions in military widows: "I must stress that such a solution would be supported, regardless of their number, and regardless of the financial consequences, because when it comes to the fact that we are equal before the law, then it is not possible to recognize the right only to those whom you like, but to all who are covered by the law." Yeah. That's what this case is about. And once again, we're talking about the lowest pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Gumzar has the floor. [[He's not here.]] A year old? [[Not at all.]] Marine? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, my first conclusion is that whatever we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not get the right and valid reasons why our proposal is not acceptable. We also receive the same substantive answers in the content of our proposal today. I am extremely sorry that on Friday, at a 15-hour meeting, where we discussed six proposals on the content of our laws, none of them were acceptable. At least one of us who doesn't cost anything, we could take it. And that's not what you did. Also today, under which the content of the proposal has been signed by our fellow Member, Robi Hrovat, you justify being in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in any other, we are collecting political points. You know, these are such simple explanations and justifications that can no longer stand, and I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians will recognize this. Our purpose was not in this at all. Our purpose was to at least show a sense of solidarity here and at this time today. However, the Government’s explanation somehow endures in the professional work where the Government or the competent ministry of work explains to us what is the system from which pensions are actually drawn. We understand all that. However, we do not understand that we do not have this content here, nor does the Government, of course, follow this coalition, this sense of solidarity, but I will not say "poor farmer" because I think that poor Slovenian farmer is probably in some respects significantly more than "gods", but I regret that we are some, Members and Members of Parliament, on the question that we also want to be poor because we do not understand this poor farmer. Two thousand people are involved, two thousand of these pensions, with which they would really contribute to what has been unfair in the past, wrong. It was not fair to a Slovenian farmer, one who was literally beaten after the war, and may still be beaten today. In this respect, the Slovenian Democratic Party is trying to correct the content in this area. On the part of the Government, we have heard the explanation that the Government or the Ministry of Labour is preparing a study. I wonder how much this study costs. Because if this study cost as much as it would have required at the annual level, these EUR 227 of a farmer's pension would have been sufficient for those 2,000 pensions and would have enabled people to live more decent lives at least in these times of crisis. After all, in the past, this farmer has been given some advantages - and what are the benefits? That he may have bought some mechanism under some more favourable conditions to make traders less profitable, but all the other intermediaries earned it and again at the expense of this poor farmer who tried to update himself, but he quickly found that what was, as it were, under the terms, "something more favourable" cost him significantly more than if he bought it under normal conditions. I have a feeling that the government's actions are directed towards the so-called payment of the crime. That's not good. It's really not good. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we follow the people who call us, "so give us what to do in this area if the current government is not prepared to do so because it deals with many other things that are not so important if it is more important for some sector ministers who lead and are members of the government today to fight for whether they will be able to get a chair in the European Parliament or rather be active in their field in Slovenia." I think there's too much evasiveness and too much loose ground that we can't trust. It is too much to assume once again that the bill we are proposing is not acceptable because it is not systematic because it is based on the fact that we are gaining political points and so on. There are many of us in this Parliament of Slovenian "pubecs" and "deklin" who have survived our youth during Slovenian agriculture. And perhaps also because of this little more emotional charge, which is nothing more if a Member or Member has it when considering a concrete proposal to improve the state of a law. I just wish that there would be a little more understanding in this area and that not every proposal that is yet so good and imaginative, also in line with European countries, would be accompanied by an explanation: 'You are gathering political points. But why didn't you do it in the past? You had a government of four years, and you didn't do it." Some even say, "You haven't done anything." You know, we've been working, and we're going to keep going, no matter what your explanations are, because people are asking us to, and they're asking us to make these proposals, we're going to propose them. We have them, we invest them, and we will invest them in the future. This is our mission, and we are aware of it. And if the period after the war was marked by a story and the farmers survived it, and this story was "My Dad, the socialist ball," passed on today could be called "My Dad, the capitalist tycoon".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you. The representative of the Government, Mrs Dark, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I might explain something else about this ongoing debate. Above all, we do not want to equalise farmers and farmers-fighters who were insured under the law on the age insurance of the rural population. That's true. And why do we insist on a systemic solution? Because of this, if we raise these 2,000 farmers and compare them with the fighters farmers, it means that we will establish a disproportionate and unfairness towards those insured in the general pension scheme, where everyone, including the farmers, has been involved since 1983. And all of these must pay at least 15 years of contributions to be eligible for a minimum pension of EUR 187.34 at this time. For 15 years the contributions paid are eligible for up to EUR 40 less than the farmers insured for at least five years. The condition is significantly lower, just five years, and so this is not some non-systemic solution. On the other hand, look at this vital information. 130 000 people, in general, who have been insured under the general pension system, who have paid at least 15 years of contributions, today, unfortunately, have a pension of less than EUR 400. What does this mean if we now compare farmers who paid under the Age Insurance Act with all of this? This means that for five years the pension would have been higher than all those who paid within the system. That's why I'm talking about a system solution. That's a key argument. If we're looking at the equality within the Age Insurance of Farmers Act, then you can compare the farming population and then the farmers-fighters, and you say, "Yes, we want the same." What about all those who have been paying for this system since 1983 and are part of this general system, including farmers. That is why we are opposed to this systemic solution, and therefore I say that a look at individual and social security needs to be addressed within other systems that are more appropriate and not within social security systems. Social assistance schemes which are for solidarity and through which solidarity is expressed throughout society. And in this regard, it may also say that, as has already been said in the debate on the single pension allowance, the Solidarity Aid Act, which will regulate the single solidarity benefit for all vulnerable residents, which means that farmers can also benefit from this benefit and not only the pensioners, as is now said, including the unemployed and recipients of monetary and social assistance, so all those vulnerable categories that are currently most vulnerable to the impact of this crisis and are most likely to suffer these consequences. And the objective of pension reform is, we were asked how, as already said by Member Sajevic, the working group was set up and by September it would be a clear starting point which would then be in a wider public debate, because for such a big deal as modernising the pension system, it will be necessary to obtain a wider social consensus from all social partners, civil society and political parties. We will talk about this much more, but we will follow systemic solutions, and one of these is that within the insurance system as much as it takes and always respects the principle of contributions paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! It is indeed an extremely difficult area, because to resolve the pension system means to really deepen into a very wide range of all open issues, and above all, there must be agreement and solidarity between generations. And if we read this law, which we have submitted today for consideration, we can talk about trying to solve some problem or some relationship between generations of 60 and 70 years ago, which is possible and acceptable, so today we are also discussing it, and this certainly is not a reflection of today's current topics and discussions on how to create a pension system in Slovenia. Before me, the representative of the Government made it very clear that, in fact, it is not a matter of reducing the differences in pensions by this law, but of a certain number of pension recipients under the law on the age insurance of farmers, it increases them to the level of farmers' pensions. And here is actually this ideological, if I may say so, generational debate that you obviously want to have about this law. But it seems to me that it is an inappropriate time, especially given how intensive we are in trying to mitigate such a financial and economic crisis, and how important it is that we also set up a sustainable pension system for all generations in the future. It is therefore entirely justified that the Government has identified itself as inappropriate to this law, because it does indeed cause more problems than the possibilities for dealing with all these matters in a normal way in the future. We can also see that there are a number of aids already in place in the area of farmers, both in the case of the transfer of farms to younger farmers. There, too, this problem is trying to resolve, negotiate, stimulate. Last but not least in the families, to move the farm into the hands of a younger successor, to make this perspective and to make it easier for us to continue to negotiate these obligations as well as rights. Therefore, I think it is better that we conclude a debate as soon as possible on such a law, which opens up a substantial number of questions rather than a solution, because we will simply not come up with the solutions we want, to come up with this solidarity and to really come up with answers that will give everyone a decent life. There was also talk about the fact that earlier farming was not the appropriate way to solve life’s issues. I think that everyone, or at least 10, 20 years ago, can remember that it was organised very large for the area of farmers, it was organised buying milk, these products, aiding in the purchase of technology. Today, let us ask ourselves where we are in the countryside. Only rare people are allowed to pass on milk, and all others do not meet these standards. And what's possible today [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u83	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u84	for today's debate in Parliament, how to reduce the differences in farming between the richest and the poorest who have their own farm. [[...]] This is the key issue that we need to resolve today in these current circumstances. And this marriage, unfortunately, does not touch. Unfortunately, these differences, as you can see in the area of the economy, have also arisen in the area of agriculture. In fact, some people have a standard that is far beyond the standard that those who, even because of age limitations, can no longer grow as much as they can in younger years. And this is a question: how can this intergenerational shift, how can this issue of succession in these farms be addressed in a way that will also have an appropriate existence in the countryside, even in agriculture? I hope that some of the laws we will deal with on this subject, especially because they relate to tax obligations, will also resolve this. See, this year's Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber highlighted the problem of taxation of subsidies in restricted areas. Has it highlighted the problem of income for those owners and for those farmers who have not received any subsidies, they must pay almost more income than those who have received the subsidy? And they receive substantially larger subsidies, allowing them in fact also some appropriate standard. However, no one in this House obviously wanted to talk about this at this stage, and I hope that this problem will be solved as well. I'm sorry I caught him a little too late myself. However, the fact is that, according to the law adopted by Minister Bajuk's Ministry, those who have high subsidies have been substantially more exempt from income and those who do not receive them cover the difference for those who have received it. And this is an injustice that we should also discuss here in this House and is current. Today, this income will affect a lot of farms, which unfortunately do not generate enough income. So let us close this chapter as soon as possible and discuss the real problems and problems we have today and here. I will not support this marriage. However, I would like to discuss that we are reducing differences in both farming and other areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u86	Mr President-in-Office or Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was proposed by my fellow Member Robert Hrvat and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I am convinced that there is no one in the National Assembly who is not aware that we are in a socio-economic crisis in our country and also in Europe, that is, in the world. I think we're all aware of that. Therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you whether anyone who is here today in this National Assembly can tell me how it is possible to survive with 227.60 euros in the current situation. If there is someone here in this House who can answer this question in such a way as to insist that it is possible to survive with €227.60, then thank God. Then put your hat down! I am sure that no one here can answer this question with a credible answer. Dear fellows, fellows, that's what this is all about! It is, therefore, that this Parliament and all those sitting in this Parliament must and must be aware of this problem. With €227.60, someone in the current situation in Slovenia should survive. And those who do not understand or agree with me in this House that it is not possible to survive with this money will certainly have nothing to look for in this House. Because voters and voters, all who voted in favour of this Parliament, no matter which party they are, voted in favour of helping these people solve their problems, looking for appropriate solutions to benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is our mission and our duty. How to survive with €227.60, dear colleagues and colleagues, given that we have the most expensive oil derivatives, that we have more expensive petrol than the Austrians have, than Croatia has, as the Hungarians have, this has never happened in the history of independent Slovenia. The government of Borut Pahor has taken over the leadership of this country and is running it for only six months and we have reached this point where we have the most expensive petrol. Those people, those pensioners who spent 50 or 100 euros a month on oil or oil will now spend 150 euros. Tell them how much of these 227 will then be left for all the other expenses they have in their lives! In addition, dear colleagues and colleagues, we take into account that you expect to increase tolls, that unemployment increases enormously, that you have reduced the funds to build homes for the elderly, that you have not supported the pension supplement law, that you have not supported the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment to increase the number of scholarships, and, on the other hand, you are vehemently advocating the issue of decisions to the deleted and the payment of compensation. You have proposed the adoption of a law on legal representation, where Slovenians and Slovenians are certainly awaiting an increase in their tariffs. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that in this House we are all aware that the standard of living for pensioners who have been employed in the Republic of Slovenia is deteriorating. Besides, what else can an army of unemployed people say that's only grown to over six months, I think over 30,000. On the other hand, the government once again suggested that judges receive a 25% increase in salaries. I just don't understand it anymore! In this country, people who are already privileged, who have no problems with their jobs, on the one hand, are paid by 25%. We have the highest number of judges per inhabitant in Europe and most of the judicial backlogs. And we pay for these people! Here, for 2,000 people, we do not find these few euros to even their pension from 227 to 455.19 euros. Even if we do so with this law, this amount cannot be lived on, but we have taken at least a step toward these people to try to help them to some extent in the present situation. Dear colleagues, I ask you where solidarity is. Your mouth is full when I hear about solidarity. But I wonder if you understand what solidarity means. That's what I'm wondering. If we understood that, we would certainly understand that, then such solutions would certainly not have occurred in the last six months of the ruling of this coalition and this government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will quote the second paragraph of my opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 1972, written by the Government, quote: "The old insurance of farmers introduced by the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers of 1972, Official Gazette 13/72, has been established outside the pension and disability insurance system on the grounds that they would be able to deal more effectively with the harsh social conditions in the village and thereby strengthen the social security of the rural population in accordance with the economic capacity of themselves and society as a whole. The elderly insurance of farmers is intended to help prevent further fragmentation of land." This sentence is very interesting. This sentence has a very, very long beard, continuing to crush land. Dear colleagues, everyone in the National Assembly knows exactly when this was happening and what the consequences are. Yes, today in Slovenian Gorica, not to mention Koroška, Pomurje, etc., people with two, with three hectares simply cannot survive. Let someone here from the "smart people" who then allowed themselves, and some still live today to go through Slovenia or the then Yugoslavia this way. These are the consequences that we have here today, because simple farmers with such land and with such a surface could not survive, and even less so that they could contribute their respective share to both pension and other cash registers. It's not these people's fault, it's those who did it. We all know who it was. But I don't want to open this darkness back. We are interested in solving the problem now and for those who need it. That is why I would expect the least, dear colleagues and colleagues who are here in the National Assembly to vote in favour of this law. But I will never say the guilt that has been done, because most people who are over 40, 50 years of age know these injustices, and try to solve them with a little wisdom this respected great assembly with such bill proposals up to a point. Dear colleague, I will also quote the fifth paragraph of this Government, quote: "The basic right from the age insurance of farmers is the right to an old pension. NBO farmers, who were socially threatened, also had the right to a protective allowance." And this phrase is also very interesting and special. Thus, farmers who were not fighters had no right to a protective allowance. That's what it says. I don't understand that. We again have two categories of people in the Republic of Slovenia. So we're splitting up again, I don't know who. I agree with all those in the National Assembly, and I am one of those who has no problem with the fighters who fought Hitler. And I personally have great respect for them. I am convinced that there is no problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party as well. Also for those who fought for independent Slovenia when the Yugoslav army attacked us, the aggressor - the very same story as the national liberation fighters who fought against Hitler, we now have Slovenians and Slovenians who fought the aggressor the Yugoslav National Army. And we don't have any problems, and we don't share people. We respect these people and believe that it will once be time for colleagues and colleagues from the current coalition to stop this cultural struggle and try to tell us all the time that we have a different view of those who have conquered and fought Hitler and those who have conquered and fought the Yugoslav National Army. We don't have one. These are all Slovenes and Slovenians and citizens of this Republic of Slovenia. However, we certainly have against those who have worked when talking about the war on Slovenia, together with the Yugoslav National Army against the interests of the Slovenian state. In assessing the scope of the rights in the age insurance of farmers, for example the height of the old pension, I quote: "of course, account must be taken of the fact that the insurance is not based on self-financing - the insurance principle, but on the principle of solidarity of society." If this were to be taken into account, then such a difference could not have occurred if we had on one side pensioners with 455 euros in pensions and on the other hand the same pensioners with 227.60 euros in pensions. And that's what really bothers me. And with this bill proposed by my colleague Robert Hrovat, we want those pensioners who have 227.60 euros in pensions to be equal here. This is what is the intention and the key reason that Mr Robert Hrovat, together with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, has put this amendment of the bill into the procedure. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be very happy to support this law because we are convinced that with 227.60 euros it is not possible to survive, dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since I have already presented the party's position today, and there have been a lot of reactions to my implementation, as well as to the implementation of the bill's proposal or the amendment of the law - many of the coalition types have been evident in terms of populism and similar comparisons - I would still say something in this direction. If it is populism for someone when you advocate a socially endangered layer or a professional group or people when you criticize infringements, the injustices that occur today in Slovenian society, and I believe you believe that they happen when you demand consistent implementation of the principle of justice when you demand social solidarity to certain segments of the population, is that populism? Maybe it is, but it'll be decided by the voters in three and a half years. When you gentlemen of the coalition started with the priorities of advocacy and implementation, the adoption of laws for lawyers, deleted, and you'll probably still be for notaries, because you're still missing on this list, we've never seen you populism, we've never seen you pick up political points. That's what you've decided. You seem to like those layers better. Now you are reading to us, when we are defending others, the real farmers, the unemployed, the needy, poor old people in the countryside would invite you, gentlemen of Ljubljana, to come to Prekmurje once, and to Gorička to walk from village to village, from abandoned, impoverished homes and others to see how 70, 80-year-old farmers die maimed, burned, without any medical care, without any euro in the bank account, then you will talk a little less about some systemic solutions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. You're going to drive away a little less and wipe out the lawyers and stuff. Then you'll understand us. Don't tell me you don't add guilt. The great injustices are happening and we demand that this be done away with. We read again in the newspaper: "Mr. Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space, wants to legalize 100 gypsies on black-built buildings as a matter of priority." Not far from me, a farmer who wanted to buy another cow blacked out his barn and decided that it was necessary to break it and all the other consequences it had. One god cow, for which he had no place to put it under the roof, made a barn, a small barn, a few square meters, and the inspectors started shouting and screaming. What a black construction! But the gypsy settlements will be legalized as a matter of priority on the list, but we don't ask questions there. Isn't that guilt? If we're alerting the opposition, it's populism. Of course, all things can be described as populism today. If someone disagrees with how you do it, it's populism activity. Yes, please! He gave the proposer all the credit, very good, solidarity and humane proposals. And be ashamed if you refuse to do so again. We'll be waiting for the systemic solution to this marriage. Even poor farmers will be poor and suffer from old age, that they may not die in peace. That's it. Thank you, for your news.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today there were so many things said in here that I don't think are at all suitable for this assembly, and even less for those people, those people who have been sitting in here for a long time know the problem. And sometimes I feel so bad, I feel like they just don't know where they live, or they don't even spin in these circles anymore. I can tell you that the peasant population, when someone said, is helping by the grips, because they get it, they get it from someone else. And they always talk about subsidies. They're not subsidies, it's just a level playing field for the non-economic price. Let's put this subsidy aside for once, and let's use this term so that people, the general public, can finally understand that this is a price adjustment, not a subsidy to give someone something. It has to be said that these people are producing food for us. Most likely, we look very few times at the shelf, whose food we buy - whether we buy Slovenian food or buy foreign food. And these are things that are sad, I must say. These people also regulate this beautiful country of ours that we can be proud of. But it's 2,000 people. We have recently talked about some matters very emotionally. We've presented a lot of stories, and we could bring these stories in here. And if we were to settle this issue, we could see that if we could manage the financial resources that the country has, we could also resolve this without any major problems. Let me say that most farmers don't retire at all. These people are burning to the ground. But at an old age, it is no longer effective, and it also needs some income to normally complete this work that was given to them. Not to mention what the gentleman said, come to Goričko to look at, I think that only 30 km from Ljubljana could we see how 80-year-olds without successors today find it difficult to live. And the lady, when I was visiting her, said, "You know, I'm going to bed tonight, and I don't know if I'm going to get up or not." And you don't give a shit, but there's a lot I can't do to help here, like to alert the National Assembly to such things. And I'm saying that shouldn't be a problem. We also need to know that these people are proud. These people will not go for social support. These people will accept the pension, and this feeling gives this, so let's take it where we have the money for social support, and maybe we'll settle it here somewhere, and we'll get it done in one way that will be more respectful. Ideology and division left and right, in farmers, this is out of the question. Farmers, this is one of the broadest circles of citizens and citizens, and there is no division here. And let me also point out that in 1972, during the reign of Mr Kavčič, these matters were slightly changed. That's what it was all about, but it's not so hot anymore and it's so high-quality, so today we're here where we are. And especially solidarity, paid contributions. No contributions were paid for these state pensions either, but it is necessary to know that some of the mothers who persisted at home raised families and did not pay for these contributions. And it's a good thing we introduced it. Let's do it, too. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] behave properly, bring matters to one normal and respectful level. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm really happy and happy to see and listen when some people think that by electing to the National Assembly they knew everything and they all knew that some of them with the choice on the list had skipped quite a few degrees of different academic education, easy to cry about what was being heard today. I admit to the proposaler that he rightly pointed to one problem that deserves thorough consideration, including a good solution. Unfortunately, however, the solution that he proposed in such an ad hoc practical, loving and populist way is difficult to support. I don't think there's a lot of us in this National Assembly who would spend their entire lives on farmers and the lives of these people from around here, and not in that idyllic beauty of agriculture, but when it's hard. I tell you that I know a whole bunch of solid farmers and husbands, and their households, who are also these pensions, which I think are too small, happy. Many of them said to me, "I'm glad that maybe for the first time in my life I have one of my own assets and one of my own money." I am pleased that the Secretary of State has also pointed out the injustices and differences we are making in this regard in order to bring about a political decision to the level of someone who has worked for five years, as well as 130 who have paid for 15 years or more. I think that one conclusion of one political body is the same as we are, in order to correct one injustice, which is certainly in 2000, to cause injustice to 130 000 and is simply not in place. The only real answer is that the pension stories of Slovenia and Slovenia must be made systematically, at the principle level and that partial solutions do not lead anywhere, just as soon as possible, not to the morning, but we must correct the story in full tomorrow in order to make it work. Where are the key answers? The key answers and solutions are certainly in demography first. As long as the birth rate in Slovenia is as small as it is, we still have some bad writing on our hands. Those who will work to ensure that we who are discussing this today have pensions are simply not enough. There are key problems here, and we have to deal with this. With the pension reform in the 1990s, we have done something, but today we are too busy working today to see those who have the opportunity, but these 2,000 farmers I do not see among them, start to save more. However, it is in the countryside, on the small farms mentioned by the predecessors, certainly a reserve in capital and property. And for those who are no longer able to grow, we must offer an appropriate service so that this capital, which will grow in many ways, which will fail in many ways, will have the right place to cultivate it. Whether it is in the form of taking over farms, whether it is measures for the retirement of farmers, or whether it is a fixed pension from real estate and land, it is necessary to discuss this in professional and less political circles. I know exactly what it's like to have a farmer's pension. All those who were born on farmers when they completed a certain age period do not retire, but on farmers all work and work as long as health and fitness permit. Those on farmers who are younger masters also have a respectful attitude toward their parents and ancestors. And if the elderly and the young are on the farm, then the elderly are exemplaryly cared for, at least in the vast majority of cases. But the problem is where young people in the countryside or their parents have left, have moved to cities or where they are in the farmers, and there is too much of it, without legal heirs, without relatives. For those, I mean, at least in most cases, social services don't care enough, not enough. But the big problem and the big problem is that these people are closed to social assistance because they have property. And the status of this property should somehow be systematically defined for their benefit. I am glad that we have opened this subject today, which is a serious subject. However, if we approach it politically and lose ourselves in stories like those on one side of the NOB, on the other, deleted, judges, and anyone else who has found a place in our debates, then I think we will have a bad or difficult solution. If it were just a problem of five million euros, what does this mean for the budget, then I would be happy to support this bill because I know that these older ones would also devote this money to younger people or at least farms. It's about humble people who've been in life. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] used to live modestly. This would be an additional contribution to the Slovenian countryside or agriculture. But I'm sure you can count on my support wherever we find it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] a system solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I also have people coming into my office who receive the lowest farmer's pension. And as my colleague Žnidaršič said, not only are they afraid that they might get sick, they won't even be able to do the basics on the farm, but many are too old to produce some salads that he was talking about. Maybe it's not the easiest option to advise them to sell the land and go home. These people are bound to the earth that they may have acquired and processed through many generations, and it is probably not an easy decision to make, but now we will sell all of this so that perhaps after a while there will grow blocks or something like that. When we talk about pensions, we need to remember little because you keep telling us what we haven’t done or that we can do more. Things need to be done in an integrated manner, not taking partial solutions and so on. We know that pension reform has been in preparation for quite some time, that in 1999 it was adopted, that some reconciliation of pensions with salaries was established, but immediately after the elections to the National Assembly in 2000. And this was also a partial solution proposed by the LDS government at the time, and even DeSUS supported it. Here it must be remembered that before 2004, in addition to the obvious that if Janez Janša wins, the pension will no longer exist, we read the headlines: Pension Treasury Empty, next month. We don't know if there's gonna be money for pensions and ask and so forth. We probably agree, however, that after the elections when some important changes took place, that is to say, a change in the law that brought about more favourable reconciliation of pensions and abolished this injustice that occurred in the year 2000, but something even more important happened. And that is to say that the pensioner’s office or that the state has taken over the debts. And that's why we didn't read the headlines anymore that the pension box was empty, and next month it might not be for pensions anymore, so we read different addresses about poverty, etc. If you report that the law is not appropriate and that it partially solves that it is not complete, it is not systemic, then we suggest that you prepare it, and it will be significantly better. But also those laws that we make and are very well prepared and regulate things in the right way, are all in line here on your side to accept on the knife or reject them as soon as possible, most likely they would not allow any debate in this. I will support the marriage by perhaps making it easier for more than 2,000 people to do something for a suitable age to survive it properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would draw attention to the fact that this proposal aligns the situation of all pensioners in rural areas simply by fixing the pension at the lowest pension rate for the full pension period. Walking after what the farmer had to endure in time after the war, as well as in fact at the construction of Yugoslavia, we can see that it was not those people who were fastened with flowers, as it is called. But today we're at another time. We are at a time when Europe is spending the most money from the European budget on agriculture. I don't see why we should be moaning around here because there's no money, but if we know we can find it where we don't really want to see it. These are the European cash registers that offer us this money, but we are not able to apply for the various tenders available. One of these problems could be solved, as a variety of farms could still be active today if they had a revitalized environment and also a renewed production. We cannot organise ourselves at the local level to help those people who do not find themselves in this bureaucratic flood of required documents to prepare documentation. One cubic metre of paper has to be written down if you want to compete, and we don't even know how to advise them. At the state level, however, there is a complete confusion, since, in fact, the ministries cannot and cannot harmonise themselves when it comes to open calls. And today to talk about how this could weaken the integrated budget is a direct disgrace. It's a small resource. I am deeply convinced that this country, which is enshrined in the Constitution as a social state, should do so. We should do this because if we want to follow the European principle, then let's see how the status of the farmer is saved in France, for example, and you'll see that there's a lot of different. To talk about popularism in the National Assembly if we are to care for a particular endangered group of people, however, is a shame, a kind of misdirection. I come from Primorska, before my colleague said how it is on Goričkem, and I will say that even in Primorska, a variety of farms could be restored if the system were more friendly to farmers. I am not saying that some have failed and, despite this difficult process, have been able to register and acquire funds, but these farms are not enough. It is mainly those farms where young people have already fled and are in fact older. Again I return to Primorsko - go to Baska Grapa, and you will see the most beautiful part of Slovenia completely empty. There are virtually no more people there who would be willing to live in such a beautiful environment. And who's to blame if not the state? So today, all that we have before us can be a speck in a mosaic that can complete the completeness of a mosaic with this missing work if we help these people. Many of the young will like to return if we have, as you call it, a systemic approach that should be an upgrade to this. First, we must take care of what has been given to younger generations through cultural heritage, and this is for the basic existence of those who persist there. I think this country is bound to do this for these people, and even these people, remember, have been to the referendum. They voted for their better lives, and they probably live worse today than many other Slovenians. And that's not good for you and, of course, it's not good for us. At that time, when we decided to be independent of Slovenia, we hoped that we would live better, and that is far from what we expected. There are more poor and socially vulnerable, and it seems that there will be more.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Here we are again before a discussion and the dilemma of the coalition, which in fact draws arguments from the five veins, why a proposal that solves an important social issue cannot be supported. I must say that, above all arguments, including the governments and even the coalition Members, when they say that this cannot be supported, I am, in fact, surprised. On the one hand, in fact, this indicates a relation to a particular category of people, to a certain class of people, and on the other hand to an extremely selective approach to individual social groups, as well as to the way in which social problems are perceived. The fact is, the farming population is the one with the lowest pensions in this country. The lowest pension. There is no category of pensioners who would have lower pensions than farmers have. Nor is there a category of people who in a similar way would be excluded from certain other social benefits such as rural insurance. These are farmers, people working on their farm for a lifetime who have at least 60 years of working time in the maintenance of the Slovenian countryside, and for such a long time they do not actually own almost anything, except those charity 170 euros of pension. And when such a question opens up in the National Assembly, there are many righteous people who are concerned about balance or proportionality with other categories of pensioners. This source or this amount of pension does not allow anyone to survive for 10 days. It doesn't guarantee anything. And despite the fact that we are proposing a change that is marginally small, there is an extremely large number of words and quasi arguments why not support it. If the coalition understands the proposal's good purpose, then for this good purpose, it would be possible to propose at least an amendment that would say, "No, we do not suggest that this proposal to increase the pension of the farmer rises by so much, but only for so much." As Mr Potrč had previously said, these insurers could also raise their pension by EUR 50,60, as for widowed persons by the insurance companies of the Yugoslav People's Army. Why not so much?Oh, my God! With one amendment to the government, with one amendment to the coalition, with some tolerance and understanding of the coalition, they could easily accept the amendment. And that would mean that we don't need more than €5 million, which is a huge problem for state finances and PIZ, but we would only need 700,000 more. That would be so much less than that. No, even such a rich correction in this area cannot be accepted. And I understand the discomfort of the coalition. I understand. However, to wait for this dynamic, as the Secretary of State has said, to be followed by a systemic process when only the first papers, the first documents for public debate are announced in autumn, and possible adoption once later, I think it is very inappropriate and irresponsible. Also unsocial to this category of people who are far from underestimated in this country. These people, the farmers, not only keep the settlement of the Slovenian countryside - increasingly less so as it grows, and despite the fact that the Slovenian countryside is growing, various Ljubljana environmentalists find that man is interfering with the area of the beast and the area of the animals despite the growth. I think that these things should be settled in some way. These people were also an advocate of the Slovenes. These people inhabit the Slovenian countryside and the Slovenian border. There are no Ljubljanas there at the Slovenian border with Croatia, Austria, there are no Ljubljanas, there are no townspeople. These are the people who also maintain control over the Slovenian border by customs officers and by the police. Those of you who may have a plot or a weekend in these remote places, you know that's the way it is. These are the key people who also exercise control over whether or not they cross the Slovenian border of irregular migrants or transport goods from the country and so on. As it is said, there are also exceptions to the pension system in this country. Some who did not earn pensions also receive pensions that are disproportionately high. Just because someone can get a state recognition, which they credit, means they get a pension that they didn't pay for, but they hide it from other addresses. Even what was proposed two months ago in the National Assembly, when the law on pension and disability insurance was amended and pensions for widowed persons after the insurance companies of the Yugoslav People's Army were regulated, there is no cover with payments to the Slovenian pension system. And even though those pensions are on average three times higher than farm pensions, due to the power of the coalition and the social sense of the coalition for those 50 people, the matter was settled. Here we have 2,000 of these insurance companies who, after the war, because they were farmers, could not have been otherwise insured. Here, however, we are not able to do enough to enable them to receive an adequate pension, which would provide them with at least that minimum survival, and to do another part of the social system, which would also provide them with certain social benefits and social assistance when they disturb them. I don't know how some parties who have the word "social" in the title can ignore such injustice in this area. That seems completely incomprehensible to me. You're telling us that our solution is not systemic, that our solution is populist, that our solution is too fast. If anyone doubts a good purpose in this area, the good purpose of the bill that we are proposing has been to have a substantial amount of time since the law was introduced and the possibility of correcting systemicity, as well as any other improvement in this area. The fact that the coalition is not fast enough that it has failed to develop a certain speed is clear to everyone. The first law entered into the coalition contract should be adopted in January and relates to one-off cash assistance, these are the people we regulate by this law systematically in order to receive monthly higher pensions and would actually be the main beneficiaries of a solution under that law because they would get the highest supplement. However, the coalition did not realise this within the time limit they had entered into the coalition agreement. When we proposed, two months after the deadline for the coalition expired, under their coalition contract, you rejected and proposed or said that you would extend the matter a little further. Okay. We will also support this solution. However, we could temporarily address these people's problem with your new system approach and we could arrange everything else and probably exclude it from this proposal. As things are going on, the pace you set up is probably going to be that you rejected this law this year, and there will be no systemic solutions. And so the year will pass and will remain in the state budget about €50,60 million or a coalition that will be able to allocate for other projects. Such as are provided for under the Public Finance Act or the Insurance Scheme Act. Certain categories of people who are very close to you are dealt with by exceptions. There is no problem that the law states that, irrespective of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, it is also possible to do so and so, in these and these cases. There's no problem there, but there's big bribes. I don't care if he owns the Laško Pivovarna, Mr Boško Šrot or Andrijana Starina Kosem. It doesn't matter. If he can't buy Shroth, let him buy Starina Kosem. If one can't provide resources, the other can. But I would like to point out that you are a very non-systemic approach. We cannot save people at the bottom of the social scale here, but we are doing business there with an exception, and we are taking an exception that allows those who have received huge assets in one way or another in a few years to enjoy an exception in the banking system, including in the guarantee system and for their privileges, the commitments of all countries, the state budget, will also be accepted so that these people can own and implement the property transformation process. I think that at some point it is necessary to say what those real things are, what social matters are and what are the things governing the privileges. The first law proposed by the coalition in this mandate was a law that dealt with a special situation for one of the former Members. No problem. Mr Cviklu was thus trying to secure a special status within the framework of the state administration that the coalition had signed the law in solidarity. Thank God the law fell. There is an exceptional problem in providing a few million euros to people who have worked 60, 70 years on their land and all those who have worked so long have also been involved in the process of compulsory crop delivery for a certain period of time, so that they can benefit from mandatory broadcasting somewhere else, but we cannot, in fact, provide those resources for survival that would provide a lower limit or an existing minimum. Here we have to wonder if anyone can still carry the word "social" in their label. I don't think they've met this criterion in a long time. There was also a lot of talk by the Government about various modernisations. You also said today that a wide range of systems will have to be modernised, the social system, the pension system. It will be very interesting to monitor these modernisations. That's interesting. What else will we modernize or domestically take away from these people who have 170 euros in pensions? What else are we going to modernise in this area? Those who are talking about the modernisation of these systems, which concern minimum standards for survival, whether it involves pension work or social work, might first say what else needs to be modernised in this area. I understand that it can be modernised what is there in those last 2% of pensioners who receive EUR 1800, 1500. There's something to modernise. I am interested in what can be modernised in those who have 170 euros in pensions. You're talking about things, about upgrades that mean savings in the system. This means a direct deprivation of rights, which means a direct deprivation of pension rights, social rights, health rights and other rights. I want to know what you're going to modernise or how you're going to modernise the 38 million euros lost at Lehmans Brothers. Under the leadership of the former Governor, the current Minister for European Affairs or Development, the Bank of Slovenia bought two Lehmans Brothers bonds, which failed. The amount of EUR 38 million. This amount is 5 million higher than what we need for an annual student diet of 100,000 high school students. And the government is probably not going to modernise anything in this area. This minister, who caused this loss or this lost capital in Banka Slovenije, is today the leader of a group of crisis ministers, the first government crisis minister. Is this a condition and sufficient condition for you to become the first crisis minister to cause a career drop of 38 million euros? By the way, €38 million is about the income of a successful company with about 700 employees, with a good programme. To know what dimensions we're talking about, and also what kind of expenditure we might be talking about. It is obvious, however, that the coalition tends primarily to create parallel worlds in some way. One world, one problem, one approach, and another approach. He talks about social rights and makes exceptions. Talks about helping all those who need it, and on the other hand it is not and is open to all possible privileges and specialities for categories of people, very narrow, very selective, with enormous assets. They only got to him in a few years. If the coalition wants to tackle problems systematically, then we are also in our parliamentary group, even in our party, ready to face this challenge. In fact, we have already offered this challenge. Two days ago, we had the opportunity to talk here about a systematic approach to solving the economic and social crisis. We've offered a lot of solutions, 68 measures. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Ms. Potrata, 68 measures, did not all require funds. Some would not have caused any public financial deficit and these measures were not acceptable. Interesting. When the government proposed a budget rebalancing in March, the President of the Government came here and said publicly: "The macroeconomic basis for the budget's rebalancing does not hold, do not stand. We have foreseen 0.6 economic growth for the budget rebalancing, Umar and other institutions, including the international, have said that this economic growth will be minus 4%." So 5% was wrong at the starting point, and that's what he said in public. And by the way, the key sentence of that presentation was that it was a second package of economic counter-crisis measures. First, it says that the starting points do not "count" that the budget is fictitious and characterises it as the second package of measures. Now, after two months, we will be adopting a new budget rebalancing, which will be characterized as the third package of anti-crisis measures, which is likely to cover a number of measures from this first or second package of measures. It is interesting, however, that among all these measures there are very few who could be discussed here in the National Assembly. Very few: 6 laws, 6 acts, of which the budget balance and one law, for which all international relevant institutions have declared themselves not to be anti-crisis measures. If you are concerned about the pension bills - with these 5 million euro they would slightly intervene in the pension register, then many of the coalition Members know that the state budget is in solidarity with all the pension fund deficits. In the event that there is insufficient resources in the pension system, the State budget is obliged to cover the missing funds in the pension fund. From this point of view, this measure, if only a fraction of the goodwill in the coalition, poses no threat to public financial sustainability, nor to the sustainability of the pension system. All you attribute to this measure and to this resolution is simply a game of words and a search for reasons to reject the law proposed by the wrong proponents. This can be found after Friday's debates, today's debate - not the right speakers. If you think the law is non-systematic and you are so worried about it, I am actually surprised that in the National Assembly you have processed several laws for which the Government's Law Service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and other institutions have found that they bring about non-systemic solutions to even pose a threat to constitutional order and constitutional security in certain procedures. For example, this was the novel of the Penal Code. The coalition here had no doubts that anything was non-systematic. The Government Law Service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court have found that the amendment of the Law on the Penal Code does not bring any good to the legal system and to clarify or improve the legal regime in that country. On the contrary, they found it to be a major disorder and a danger of deterioration. However, no one in the coalition has been able to determine that the solution proposed is not systemic. Nobody. That is why it bothers me to convey to those who have so much sense of systemism, constitutionality, legal security, human rights protection, social rights protection, raising standards in the field of social rights and so on. In such a way that you cut off, you will prevent the most endangered group of residents in this country, these are farmers, from getting a pension correction, which means that you have consciously approached to maintain this unfair and unsocial situation that is in this country. Perhaps there was more to be done in this area in the previous mandate, and this can probably be established. However, some in this country have been in politics for 40 years, and in those years until 1991 a number of changes have been made in this area. There was no one back then if it were so decided that it would raise the voice in the first place that it could not be. In recent times, a number of people in this country could have made a significant difference in this area when they played an important social role. There were good conditions, there were good opportunities, and so on. However, according to the terminology you used at the time, it was not possible to stimulate and support. I come from a peasant family myself. I spent a lot of time at the farm, and I did a lot of things. And I remember how much effort and effort it took for farmers to even get to the basic agricultural appliances and machines. One lawnmower could only buy five farmers together in the village, not every one of them could, five of them had to be if they wanted to import a used haystack machine out there from Italy. Half the village had to gather, whether they had the means or not, so they could even get the right to buy such a machine. Later this was reduced to two, but much later everyone could buy. This allowed development opportunities in the Slovenian countryside in golden times. Thank God, some things are changing now. But not as much as many would like. In this mandate, you have also taxed agricultural subsidies for the most difficult working conditions with a government regulation. Thus, to all those who live in mountain, hill areas, border areas, you have also taxed additional incomes, or those derived from eco payments. Is that reasonable and reasonable? In the previous term, many of those subsidies were excluded from taxation. Even in the case of excise duties, these people are not adequately compensated by the increase in fuel costs, for the most expensive oil, the most expensive petrol in this region of Europe. Especially not because everyone doesn't pay with orders. Farmers are the ones who don't pay with the order with the cash. And we've put a whole bunch of obstacles and obstacles into the financial system in the last few days. These are intentional measures that prevent a particular layer that uses more explicitly a type of payment asset than others from being able to do certain things. I suggest that we find enough courage for these 2 thousand people to find the strength to support this measure and then, in the process that it will be dealt with on the working body, correct it so that it will be acceptable for these people to receive at least as much pension corrections as we did or as you did for widowed persons after military insurers who were in service in the Yugoslav People's Army. This minimum, this standard should only make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u100	Mr President, since I also have experience with what can and cannot be done with discussions on a particular content, let me just say that it is my firm belief that the debate on the 68 measures proposed by the opposition to discuss the appropriateness or inadequacy of the Penal Code certainly does not fall within the scope of the proposed law. With regard to the specific issue relating to the Bank of Slovenia, let me just repeat what the Minister for Development, Mr Tank, or perhaps some other Member, has said very specifically, but they have not remembered, perhaps after I say another time, they will remember. In Banka Slovenije, the purchase of shares is not decided by the Governor, but by a team of experts. Second, two Lehmans Brothers shares were purchased at a time when the bank was still highly active and among the highest rankings among banks in the world. I'm just giving an explanation that was given because simply to anyone in the opposition, such explanations don't mean anything. And in the end, two more on this agenda item. It would be correct to stop talking about getting any pensioners, military pensioners. Military pensioners receive nothing and are not the basis for these pensioners, but pensions after the earned working age of the pensioners who were employed in Slovenia and Slovenia are insured. Let's just keep that in mind, and don't tell any more lies about these people. And one more time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u101	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u102	by this law we have not introduced new rights, read the laws that have been adopted in this regard so far. [[...]] Since the rights already applicable to these pensioners were abolished in 2005, we reinstated them this year. The same applies to all other insurers under the general rules. The same applies to all other insurers under the general rules. Mr. Tanko, Mr. Tanko, with or without his head. These are the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. 120 years old is an old social state. It has been 120 years since Iron Chancellor Bismark concluded that the interests of workers will be the easiest to curb in a way to introduce compulsory disability and pension insurance. This has been gradually followed by other countries, the circle of beneficiaries has spread and the system has been established through two pillars. The first pillar was insurance, where the rights were derived from paid contributions and the second pillar was social aid, where the rights were derived from the identification of the social situation of the beneficiaries and, of course, from the company's ability to help resolve this social situation. He introduced the miracle insurance of farmers, so named, Stalinist system, in 1972. We didn't have insurance before. He introduced rights in spite of the fact that it was clear to everyone at the outset that it was impossible for this system to be based on 100% payments and insurance, but vice versa, on a large solidarity system of wider society and workers to farmers. This system has introduced rights on the basis of only a five-year payment of contributions. You say that we treat farmers unevenly, but, excuse me, you will treat them unevenly, because after 1984 farmers also gained the right to enter a single disability and pension system. And it's not enough for them to pay for five years. They have to pay at least 15 years and then receive a 40-euro lower pension than insured persons after the age insurance of farmers. That's what you call it. It's not unity. In particular, I would like to point out when you are already knocking on our conscience and solidarity and so forth that there are many other categories that receive such a low pension, 178.43 euros, these are those people who, for either reason above all, worked for less time or had no opportunity to get a job. Already mentioned were mothers who were unable to work because there was no adequate protection for children, but who received less than €40. Are we going to ask them to raise their pension insurance rights or are we going to look for solutions in another system, this is in the social assistance system, where the basic criterion is social security and social solidarity assistance in order to ensure an adequate standard of living? You're saying you can't survive with 227 euros? But I'm sorry, thirty-four thousand beneficiaries of monetary social assistance survives with a smaller amount. I agree, all of these amounts are too small and therefore the government is making a new assessment of the minimum cost of living. It will therefore approach the reform of the comprehensive social assistance system in order to make this system fairer, more transparent and to allocate aid to those who need it, but not, as you have repeatedly pointed out, to lazy people. The fact is that your proposal represents the source of new injustices in the system. And the fact is, we need to approach this problem systematically. It's not an easy problem that we're facing in terms of renovating the pension system. It is really not easy, because we based it entirely on the Bismarck model on reciprocity and solidarity between generations. When the relationship is turned upside down, the question is also raised on one side of the sustainability of the system, on the other hand, the sustainability or fairness of the benefits that people receive because they have spent their whole lives paying their whole lives in this system. And it is right that we approach these problems systematically and that we do not undermine with the left what the right hand should do. Maybe that's it. You say the voters made a mistake. Maybe they did. I don't argue about it because I think voters are always right. They will decide whether cheap demagogism is what is worth supporting in the future, or whether it is necessary to support different systemic approaches. If we don't win the election, of course, I will regret it, but I will always insist that the voters are the ones who have the right to decide. And we're in the process of assessing their decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Please, Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thanks again. I'm gonna start right at the end, "Slight demagogic." Look, it's only 2,000 beneficiaries. If we went to demagogy, we'd take on a larger population, at least that's how I'd go about it if I wanted to go into demagogy and populism. That argument certainly doesn't hold up. Let us remember, in fact, what we are talking about today, who we are talking about. We are talking about farmers, and this population has made a huge contribution to the existence of farms, huge, all the time, food production, other vitals that are of great importance to Slovenia. I think we all agree. It's only one small article that we're asking you to support. This article, however, will enable farmers to live a more decent life, provide them with greater social security, which, given their role in the past, the present and even in the future, they certainly deserve. It is 2 000 beneficiaries who will be compared to those who have already done the same work and have a slightly different status and receive once again a higher pension and all those social allowances that these beneficiaries we are talking about today do not receive. But it's interesting to hear a discussion about how some small group won't be able to get what they deserve. Look what happened in this term. In this mandate the green light got lawyers, the green light got erased, the green light got judges with salary increases, former military insurers - green light, multiple scholarships, here we got the red light by the coalition, higher excise duty - green light, tolling - green light, farmers, what we propose today, rising pensions - red light again. Then ask yourself what kind of country we live in. Look, there's been a lot of talk about the beach that went off. But the fact is that such measures are and all that I've been talking about has triggered the fact that, after all, it is now necessary to finally stand up for Slovenian farmers. Not just for those privileged people I was just talking about. And this is the continuity of thinking, I will talk about the Slovenian Democratic Party, that it is necessary for the pensioners, and no matter what type of pensioners it is, we must also think in this mandate. I said earlier in the introduction that, in the previous term, we have achieved that pensions are aligned twice a year with wage increases. That's important information. This has substantially raised the standard of pensioners. We have abolished the property tax for the right to work on the widow's pension; the pensioner's pension regress has increased; the pension allowance has been adopted; it has increased by 9%; a single pension allowance has been passed and so on. The elections prevented us from doing so because it is only in this way that it is possible to enable our pensioners to have a better standard, regardless of the type of pensioners. Today we're talking about farmers' pensioners. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have so far been in this mandate, although in the opposition, we have supported all the proposals for laws that have been good and that go towards improving the status, whether it be a worker, a farmer, a student, a student or our youngest. Only a proposal must come to the table and believe me that we will support it, always and anyone who will be good. But unfortunately, we don't get any suggestions on the table. These are the proposals I've been talking about. And that's why we can't. I now tell Members and Members of Parliament, be glad that you have an opposition that proposes laws, even if you call them demagogies. But I'm sure there's a lot of people among you today who would like to press yes, and because of, in my opinion, the discipline that was discussed earlier, it probably won't. There's been a lot of talk about system law. One is the system law to get here at the parliamentary tables, and the other is to set up a working group. After six months of this government, a working group was set up to prepare its starting points by the end of the year. That means a few indents. And all of these indents need to be worked out and so forth. And it's gonna turn out to be a year or two or three. I hope that something will come to the table by the end of the term, although I doubt it. However, I must say that I am very interested in whether today, in view of what you have said, I assume that this law, which I have proposed, will not receive sufficient support to include these proposed amendments, which we have discussed today, in the drafting of this system law, which you have said a lot about. And if you will, and if this is due to today's debate, I will be happy. I will be delighted, in particular, on behalf of Slovenian farmers, pensioners and pensioners. Nevertheless, I would not have lost all hope that this law would not receive sufficient support, please once again, let us show solidarity, help these 2000 Slovenian farmers and farmers who are already retired to experience once in their lifetime the feeling that they are not forgotten of all and that we are grateful to them for their work and role in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Although we have only 6 minutes and 20 seconds of time, I ask if, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Fifteen panellists have been reported. We simply cannot rationalise that time, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 5. 2009, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. ******* Moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIONS THE ACT OF DEFINITION OF A PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION FOR THE FINDING OF ALL FACTS AND ENVIRONMENTS AND EVALUATION OF THE REAL STATUS OF THE FINANCING OF SOLID MANAGEMENTS OF THE ECONOMIC COMPETITIONS OF EXPERIENCE, THE HOLDIN COOPERATION, D. D. AND A BEVEALER OF EMPLOYMENT D. D. With the exception of credit institutions in the main government entities (credit institutions inside the NLB group and NKBM D. D.) (continuing: Bank) where the possible involvement of individual holders of public functions and the assessment of their potential political impact on your allocation is determined. TAKUNSKON ENTITIES - ENTITIES REFERRED TO BY MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES OF THE ENTITLED ECONOMIC SOCIETIES AND THE LEGAL AND PHYSICAL PERSONS (You. "Slamnat" companies, financial holding companies IPD.) A group of 40 Members and Members submitted to the National Assembly, with a first-signed Loyez Posed, a request for a parliamentary inquiry under Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, for the purchase of the Economic Society which led the lead, in view of its majority share; and for the determination of all facts and circumstances, and for the assessment of the actual state of the legal provisions on overtakings which allowed for such a state of dispute, for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry under Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Lojzet Posedel, for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The number of Members and Members of the National Assembly is required. So more than 30 of us have submitted a request for parliamentary investigation on 23 April 2009. The signatories of this requirement come from the DeSUS groups, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian National Party, the Zares party and the unrelated Member. Following the responses and discussions with individual colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am convinced that we would also sign this request. However, we stopped collecting signatures as soon as a sufficient number of signatures were collected. So it's more than 30. However, I am convinced that all those who wish to participate in this parliamentary inquiry will also act actively and vigorously, as it is a matter of public interest, to identify all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, holding company, d.d., and Pivovarna Laško, d.d. The financing carried out by banks or credit institutions in the main state-owned area is therefore for institutions, banks and credit institutions within the NLB Group and the New Bank of Maribor. The parliamentary investigation should establish the possible involvement of individual public function holders and assess their potential political impact on the allocation of these so-called tycoon loans and loans to members of the management bodies of those companies and related legal and natural persons for the purchase of an economic company. The parliamentary investigation should also identify all facts and circumstances and assess the actual state of law on acquisitions that allowed the above-mentioned contested management acquisitions and determine which of the individual holders of public functions was responsible for such a situation. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to clarify all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions, to determine why the representatives of the Government or the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner of the supervisory authorities of banks or credit institutions that are or are still operating in the supervisory authorities, have allowed or allowed lending activity to finance the above-mentioned disputed management acquisitions, and to determine whether individual public function holders have been involved in the approval and allocation of these loans or have used their political influence to approve and allocate them. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is, therefore, to establish the political responsibility of individual public function holders on the suspicion that they have been involved in financing disputed management acquisitions by banks or credit institutions in the main state-owned area. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to determine whose interests and whose interests led to the adoption of allegedly inadequate or inadequate legal rules on the basis of which the contested managers' acquisitions were carried out, or to the failure to adopt appropriate legal rules to prevent those contested managers' acquisitions. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is therefore to determine which of the individual holders of public functions was politically responsible for allegedly inadequate or inadequate takeover legislation. In creating the request for the establishment of a parliamentary investigation, we took into account that these cases were very large and that, therefore, the question of how they could be concluded was also limited and requested that the investigation should cover the financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, the holding company, d.d., and Pivovarna Laško, d.d., by banks or credit institutions, in the main state ownership, and that the investigation should also cover the so-called lending lines of these banks or credit institutions to other business banks that assisted managers and related persons in taking over the activities of these companies. The investigation should focus on the period from 30 August 2005 onwards or on the sale of capital shares of Capital Company d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies, d.d., Mercator, d.d., pending a request for parliamentary procedure. This deadline is limited by the fact that we are convinced that these ownership shares or their share of the flag are used for loans to managers of the companies Istrabenz, the holding company, and Pivovarna Laško. At the same time, the imprudent and harmful withdrawal of the State from Mercator's ownership structure, d.d., meant a kind of green light for accelerated ownership consolidation with management acquisitions. The Legal and Legislative Service has examined our request both through legal and substantive considerations and has found that the requirement meets all the necessary conditions for the parliamentary investigation to be initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian National Party supported the request for a parliamentary inquiry. I hope that today there is no reason for any political shooting from left to right, because we estimate that there is nothing wrong with examining the acts that we are assessing and proving that they are controversial. It hurts when a man comes to you saying, "I urgently need help. I'm busy for a while because I don't get jobs for an indefinite period of time. I have a family. I need 5,000 euros. Help me get a loan at any bank so I can move." I'm trying to help him, but he doesn't get a loan. 5,000 euros. It pains me when a young man creates a family and in any way wants to get a bank loan to buy an apartment. He's willing to sign a mortgage on an apartment he would buy. The Bank, if it lends him a loan, guarantees an apartment that he will also buy by means of this dedicated loan. And he didn't get this loan and he couldn't buy this apartment. Even though he gave this apartment as a guarantee. On the other hand, gentlemen are coming, renting some 100 million euros or a million, because it doesn't matter, or a few 100,000 credits to buy shares. The guarantees for this loan are those shares that he will buy with this loan and this loan gets. And then calmly, despite the fact that these shares are a guarantee, with these shares he manipulates through all the holes allowed by the law. For this money, buy your equity share and become the richest or richest, one of the richest in Slovenia. By breaking the capital market or the securities market that was known in 2008 in April, and it was certainly clear on 15 September, these shares, which were a guarantee, went to the francs. There are no shares. These gentlemen have millions of euros in their accounts and no one can harm them. No matter where we belong, either left, or right, or center, or human client, or National, whatever. Do you think that's right? Worse. Do you think it's right that we all know that? Worse. Does that feel right when we have the evidence? I'm sorry we only focused on two. You know, it's not just these two, it's not just Istrabenz. It's not just Lazko Beer. Do you know how many there are? From Mercator to Mercury. We get into one group of people, on two, three, it's actually happened to a lot of people. Gentlemen who have been in power in a bank where they have an equity share, it is written, in the New Ljubljana Bank 35%, in the New Bank of Credit Bank slightly over 40% of the ownership share of this country, and we have allowed it. We have adopted such laws as Members, we have been in favour, or we have not been in favour, but others. It's not right and it's not fair. There are so many more doubts because in this country we have several hundred people employed in state bureaucracy, whose tasks are to safeguard competition, to review business, to review, to monitor what is going on. And last but not least, there is a large number in the services of the Ministry of the Interior, whose task is to monitor the situation. Of course, they're monitoring the situation if the authorities report someone, even if they're lying, they immediately fly in and say, "You" and you made the house. You're not one of us. Show me where you got the money. Surprisingly, for these gentlemen, for whom we're going to investigate, no one once asked. Only after the firecracker was set on fire by the National Assembly did some authorities even move. If I'm not talking about justice that says I can't do anything, I have to get a report. Criminals and police will say we can't act until we get a report. This is happening, and this is the truth. And because they don't report each other, the hand washes the hand, but the crow turns off the eyes, no one is to blame. I'd like to include in this investigation, who's in charge of the Competition Protection Authority? Who's in charge of the tax services? I have a terrible letter from a lady, she is a disabled woman, and she has exceeded the price for 1.36 euros so that she has less aid than the disabled person on this account. 1.37 euros. I have a letter and I will forward it with a signature to the competent ministry and therefore it has about 300 and a few euros of the poor 400 euros it has received. But here the tax administration and all the bureaucracy of this country is immediately advertised for surveillance. You're all likely to be, or we'll be, and that poor guy who makes 400 euros already has a letter at home, Durs writes, pays, pays, pay the euro, two euros, while the mail itself costs more. But we have people for you, and we're looking for you, and we're hunting you. For those we don't even know about, which we don't even know about, because we haven't adopted the law completely yet, because they have a bunch of accounts in Seychelles and the Cayman Islands that don't even have to be reported. They don't even have to pay taxes. We all know that. We all know. And we push our heads into the sand like nois. And I will be ashamed of everyone among us who will say that he opposes the parliamentary investigation. It's not about judging anyone right now without names or names. It's about proving who's responsible. We know exactly who is responsible for the individual elements in the government, who is responsible for the individual content within the government. And when we prove this parliamentary guilt, then let's be so fair and name it, from Bavčar to Shrot. I haven't yet, and I won't. The rule of law still applies to me. That everyone is innocent until proven guilty. The problem is no one wants to prove anything to anyone. Because he's too involved. Because we can come in 1992 or a year earlier and start where the capital started to accumulate when the arms were sold. Does anyone hope to find all these stories behind you? Are you hoping? Of course not. Of course not. Not with Croats of principle either, because they're involved with us, so let's go "wigl-vagl". I'm sure the original sin is there. Let us once have the courage to examine what was going on, where the money came from, who had it today, and what it did, and who made it possible. I know we'll find the culprits, and I know that this will be at least one wise and fair act of the National Assembly. Because tomorrow we will resume the session of the Finance Committee, where the state will guarantee someone because it has not sold some shares. Those shares have gentlemen who've been running into each other's pockets with millions from Telekom. They hit their pockets, they have these shares, but these shares are worth it today, according to the data we have, exactly 80 million less than this country will give credit to the Court, which is not to blame in this case. And we will continue to make loans and guarantees and, of course, pay them because there will not be a company that is therefore made to pay damages, this country will provide a guarantee and this country will again pay from a budget filled by taxpayers, which there is nothing to blame. With this investigation, I hope we'll end this story and such stories. And my colleagues and colleagues, please don't shoot political arrows from one side to the other today. Let's all be so honest, say bob beans, open a parliamentary investigation and find the culprits, but all of them. Not just the ones we've got, or you've got them, or some of them already have. I mean, it's not just them. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support the parliamentary investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a request for a parliamentary inquiry that proves the sad state of the spirit of Slovenian politics. In fact, we are not surprised that the policy, according to the assessment of Slovenian citizens and citizens, reaches an extremely low level of respect and trust. How could such political non-credit in the National Assembly be different? What am I actually talking about? Let us recall, most likely, the criticisms of the current government coalition with the establishment of investigative commissions by the coalition in the previous term. Among other things, we have heard reports on the abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, as it is intended primarily for the opposition. For the government coalition should have in its hands other levers - levers of the executive authority to resolve such problems and issues. What the hell has changed since then?Oh, my God! Probably nothing. Well, perhaps one small thing, the parties who have defended this same position in the role of the opposition, are now using this option as a coalition. And all of a sudden, it's no longer a problem. Interesting, you might say, the wolf changes the hair, but the skin never does. And another proof of how everything is possible and possible in politics, because almost always, in elections and changes in power, complete amnesia occurs, both on the one hand and on the other. Every four years, Slovenian politicians are born again, completely unscathed and innocent. Slovenian voters and voters are fortunately not, so I still have the hope that it will remain credible and consistent in politics. In the Slovenian People's Party, in the previous term, when we were in the coalition, we signed a request from coalition parties to determine the parliamentary investigation. Today, too, we are joining the demands of coalition parties to determine the parliamentary investigation, to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, this time in the role of the opposition party. It is essential for us to examine this in all these cases when suspected abuse of public functions occurs. However, we do not agree to a block division or division of ours, yours or the current or former government. He who does works makes mistakes, and he who does works can also be said to be sinful. We believe that in most cases it is not intentional, sometimes likely, regrettably, even intentionally. All abuses must be detected, disclosed and also sanctioned. Not just yours, but ours. In cases where it is the interests of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia and of the Slovenian state in general, it is totally inappropriate to divide into yours and ours. As good as bad. We therefore do not understand the approach reflected in this requirement for parliamentary investigation. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I ask you, what is required by such political arrogance and restraint? Why does he require a parliamentary inquiry only to finance the management acquisitions of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško or Mercator? Are these the only management acquisitions that have taken place through bank lending in recent years in the Republic of Slovenia? Are these the only acquisitions that cause gray hair to Slovenian bankers and politicians due to the way they are insured? Far from it. Let me write them down for you. BTC, Mercury, SCT, Primorje, Viator&Vector, DZS. I guess we could still list it. And these are just bigger and more resonant cases. We have already joined this request in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Although in our opinion it is biased and flawed. But it's a sky-breathing case that shouldn't have happened that way. Which has already been criticized, our criticisms. The policy of banks that have accepted the collateral for the stock that has been purchased for this loan is unacceptable. Where's the expertise? Where is "risk management" or Risk Management of our banks. Such management buyouts could actually be made by all citizens if they had the right links in the tops of banks and in Slovenian politics. So those real, genuine, Balkan relationships and relationships and acquaintances. If there are irregularities and loopholes in the legislation, which is probably true, we must all eliminate them together as soon as possible. If abuse has been committed, it should be detected and sanctioned, but not only in these two cases, in all cases, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will actively participate in the investigative commissions, and I now predict that, given the business possibility, we will require an extension of the scope of the investigation or propose or join in the request for a wider investigation to the minimum extent mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Good day to all of you again. What about the establishment of a parliamentary commission? At the Liberal Democracy Club, we have signed it, but I must say that we have quite a few reservations about the contents of the investigation, because the practice of Parliament so far shows that when you do not want to solve something, you will set up a commission. We also assume that, in the previous term, we have considered that the parliamentary investigation is primarily more of an institution of opposition than a coalition, since the Government certainly has all the instruments and mechanisms to investigate certain irregularities, illegality and to produce certain consequences. However, in view of the developments and the policy, and in particular the thinking of the so-called tycoon loans and credits in this country, we estimate that it is good and positive if, on the basis of the two so-called biggest and school cases, we come to some knowledge, the conclusions that will lead us to a wiser conclusion from this story, that, of course, some mistakes that are now being made will certainly not be repeated as mistakes in the future. Above all, I also see a problem with the need to put a border between policy and expertise in banks. Events in our largest Slovenian bank with a large, largest share of state ownership testify to the fact that many professions think in their own way, as it has to be, but this profession is under pressure from a wide variety of policies, which are certainly in the past and also today has a wide variety of temptations in these stories. That is why I am pleased that, for example, in the control world of the New Ljubljana Bank, they have made the same decision as they have, and that those who have been most burdened have been most exposed and pointed to with their finger have managed so much courage, determination and strength that the withdrawal has been offered and that the supervisors have also accepted such a withdrawal. This is the first step toward clearing up stories that, of course, cause some discomfort in this country as soon as possible. Above all, we also expect that the legal profession will unite and that we will set clear rules and principles and define what is actually a tycoon loan, what kind of credit is tycoon and what other loans are. If someone also paid all the liabilities and all the interest for a loan considered to be tycoon, the bank also generated income, profits and distributed it on the basis of this. Then you have to ask yourself where and when to draw the line. On the one hand, it is a good thing that during the recession, these stories, which must have had a bad and weak basis, have become so divisive and pervasive. Therefore, one of the key reasons why we will support the establishment of an investigative commission in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dušan Kumer has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the parliamentary commission of inquiry, because we believe and, above all, hope that only in this way, in a relatively short time, given that the subject of the investigation is only two cases, we can expose the perverted and double-faced speech of the potential actors of this phenomenon, including from policy types. This is a fundamental reason why we are proposing this investigation from the coalition. We all condemn the tycoon in order, but we do not know exactly which so-called tycoons and when and with what and what help the politicians and politicians have made these buyouts. Surely, therefore, the public is right to ask itself: Why is the country with all its authorities to prevent such phenomena in this case so ineffective? You might as well say affectionate. Why is it predominant to think that tycoons are not meant to be persecuted by law? Why can't tycoons be persecuted for unethical conduct? Why citizens condemn the unimaginable billions that individuals may have borrowed for their good name and for their good name and set up the shares of the companies they have taken, and the country looks at these things peacefully. And we in the National Assembly are obliged to give answers to these questions - that is why this commission of inquiry is responsible. Better acquaintances of this social phenomenon of the Mercator affair of August 2005, when important gentlemen from these stories met in the government palace, are included in one of the important, even crucial moments of later events and also today's problems. Moreover, everything was later done to make other management acquisitions as easy as possible, not only Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško, as confirmed by the data of Banka Slovenije, which was presented by the Minister last Friday in this Chamber. All loans to financial holding companies that carried out most of the management acquisitions were €77 million in 2004; €1 billion in 2005; €1.6 billion in 2006; €2.3 billion in 2007; and €2.8 billion in 2008. In 2006, the then parliamentary majority, today's opposition, in the National Assembly also amended the Banking Act and the Takeover Act, all in a sense easier to carry out these acquisitions. Let me just remember. Discussions on management acquisitions were already at the 38th meeting of the Committee on the Economy in the previous term, at the request of the Group of Social Democrats. Moreover, Members of the then government majority of the current opposition have also rejected a bill proposed by the opposition to ban acquisitions on the basis of the flag of shares of the company taken over. Let me just remind you, a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Matey Lahovnik proposed that before the adoption of the Law on takeovers, in 2006, implementing the European Directive, legal and natural persons and, among them, also the successor, the managers who took over or ordered businesses to prevent this from happening by law. Most in this House have rejected this Amendment of the takeover Act. At the time, the government considered that managers' buyouts were just one of the forms and means of taking over. Where management takes place as an individual, there is therefore no need to amend legislation in this area. Slovenian takeover legislation has allowed the above-mentioned managers to take over, and therefore this dimension of today's opposition is in some ways irrelevant. Therefore, it is indeed perverse when the leader of the largest opposition party today manifests perversion to this government in accepting the guarantee scheme. And it is precisely because of this message of perversion of the potential players of today's problems that, in these two cases, the parliamentary commission of inquiry is trying to determine whether political and other powers have been misused for this social issue, because the public has sufficient awareness and continued playing "pingpong" for a taikunk table by policy. Everything since 2007 when this word was first spoken for this speaker and evaluated in this Chamber, and even when today's tycoon government still condemns, no one knows where the line is between those who were more restrained in this operation and those who were and are still playing games without borders. Although experts and analysts from a number of areas, let them be economists, lawyers and politicians, we discuss, assess, evaluate, evaluate this problem, there are little or no concrete proposals and paths and actions and actions to mitigate or address this problem. On the contrary. The tycoons are becoming increasingly untouchable, as some recent cases also prove. In short, it is not good that there is clearly a predominance of thought, including in those responsible for persecuting and preventing possible illegality in the ownership consolidation of enterprises with managers' ransoms, that nothing can be done. It is therefore right and reasonable and extreme time for at least two, three cases of parliamentary inquiry to determine whether this social problem is due to the abuse of political power, clienteleism and corruption by the holders of the highest political and state functions. Or is tycoonism in Slovenia just an example of the established Slovenian corporate governance and the lack of functioning of the rule of law? Or it is the cover of managerial expertise, which illegally absorbs all that our workers have been creating for decades with hard work and knowledge, with the assistance of direct involvement of politicians and politicians, who directly shape both the legislative and executive branches of government. Recent developments show that supervisors are merely ornaments and that legislation is used in good legal assistance only to allow existing or future tycoons to break through the loopholes of legislation. Therefore, the question still remains seriously raised as to how our country should be social, democratic, and legal, but if greed causes all economic power indirectly, as well as political gradually and unrestrainedly, into the hands of the minority and into the elites. That is why this Commission of Inquiry is needed. The public simply demands and expects clarification as to why the policy has begun to verbally prosecute these so-called tycoons, law enforcement authorities, police, prosecutors and courts, but has not been successful in doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u118	The hall is beautiful. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I cannot begin to welcome in principle any investigation, which would also show the involvement of public function holders in unusual acquisition-related transactions and everything that has been done with these acquisitions in the background. However, such a conceptual requirement for the determination of a parliamentary inquiry is an obvious signal of the inability of the rulings to seriously, through supervisory institutions, through the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Office for the Protection of Competition and through other supervisory institutions in the country, deal seriously with this problem and is intended only to speak and talk, which will ultimately lead to some general family, if we are against it, in fact it will happen in the background. This is already happening in the current term. It's more than obvious that despite the reprogramming of tycoon loans to the cross, it happened. Even though this is condemned, it now wishes to be supported by legislation by the state, that is to say, to enable the state guarantee to do so. In principle, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support all activities in this direction. We will be happy to participate in this parliamentary investigation, but it has some weak points that some predecessors have already warned about, and allow me to highlight them. For the first time, time and content, it is limited, which makes no sense that the purpose is genuine. Thus, I do not know whether, according to the proposaler's assessment, all activities in this regard have taken place in and after 2005. I'm sure you don't. The roots of all management acquisitions are derived from the very beginning of the transition, from the privatisation period, from the period of ownership certificates and are towed up to the present days. Hiding and running from these past activities through the establishment of bypasses, through the formation of parking lots, through the deliberate close of the eyes of supervisory institutions, in particular the Securities Market Agency, does not suggest that this investigation committee will reach its bottom. So at least what we propose and will propose, in accordance with the business arrangements, is that the period should be extended for as long as it is necessary for these cases, including the two cases cited here, to be made public and clarified. The second thing that bothers us is restraint. In fact, as I see it, the applicants of the request focused on only two cases, Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško, and on two credit institutions, Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova banka Maribor. Here, too, I think that there is another bank that is involved in political affairs and meddling in one way or another, and therefore I think that this would have to be extended to some other case, such as BTC, such as the case of Mercury, such as Autocommerce, Viator&Vector, Slovenian State Publications, Primorje, and probably some more. Anyway. I understand that this parliamentary investigation wants to focus on two and to go a little bit further through these two, so it seems to me that it would be necessary to stretch the time frame for this to really figure out when Mr Srot started to accumulate assets in Atka - Prime, this certainly has not been the case since 2005 but has been much earlier and similar. In fact, you also indicated that you didn't know who the tycoons were and how they were defined, and you defined the companies. The point is, from what you wrote, who do you think the tycoons are? These are: Igor Bavčar, after what you wrote, and Mr Boško Šrot. You wrote that explicitly, clearly. If an investigation is carried out around these two companies, then these two cases are clearly consistent with your terminology. And don't move. This is more than obvious from my assessment of this requirement. If you are looking for political backgrounds, they are more than clear where political Mr. Igor Bavcar belongs, I don't think any MP needs to go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u119	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u120	explain in the National Assembly. [[...]] Where he was a political judge and, even now, he is a political judge of Mr Boško Šrot - nor is he. So, more or less, you have answers for most of these palm statements. And we will be happy to cooperate with you, Your Honor. However, if we are looking now; this is the site that received the loans and thus carried out these management acquisitions; but if we look at the other side, the ones they gave, and also very clearly knows who gave. Mr Marjan Kramar, who has been repeatedly mentioned as the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, who had just recently completed his mandate, is likely to have some of this "servised" and if his contract had happened to be disclosed, what kind of money he had done it for, what a reward, some motive or substantive reasons of a personal nature, why all of this had happened - for a high reward, he would probably have returned part of what politics had expected of him when he was set up. Mr Kramar was not appointed to the head of the New Ljubljana Bank on the basis of any other criteria than just one, a sacred criterion that you also used with Drasko Veselivič, a political criterion. And with that, you had trouble in the coalition not talking to the professional public. So if we're looking at money trails, if we're looking at people involved, it's more than obvious that you're going to investigate, even in our opinion, the real public function holders involved. They're real. And that's why we support and we'll cooperate. We just think that maybe the focal point is too narrow for any other, including the policy at the head of these segments, to be included. One was even the President of Parliament and is now the owner of one chain or one company. Not to mention cases where current ministers helped him with these acquisitions, legislation. Now, one more, allow me, one more exact statement. You say that the purpose of the parliamentary investigation is also to determine all facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of law on acquisitions. I have here, Your Honor, a vote on the takeover law, which was adopted by 24. Seven. 2006. Wouldn't it be embarrassing if I read who voted for this law? Majda Potrate, Borut Saiovic, Bojan Kontič, Member of Miran Potrč and so on voted in favour of this law. In fact, 56 Members voted in favour of this law, which is far more than the then coalition, against which there were only two. Just two. Here I have listened, or heard, to the evidence of the coalition, that the previous coalition has adopted a gross law that has made it possible for all of these solutions to be legalized to be prepared outside. Dear gentlemen of the coalition! The vast majority of you supported this because the marriage was obviously good at the time. More. If we were now convinced that the marriage was bad, we would propose amendments. Where are they? You've been in power for six months. Where are the changes to this law? Even in your normative programme of government work this year, we are in May, this law does not cover. This law is not in the parliamentary process, I don't know it and you haven't announced it either. So, the vast majority of Members and Members have supported this law and there has been no novelty so far. It's nice to be smart after battle and it's nice to be general and it's nice now for the daily political purposes to criticize certain solutions without having any concrete suggestions on how to fix and without having a clear conscience because you've been involved in these decisions. I can read more, perhaps someone else would be there if I sat in this Parliament in the previous term. Most of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, such as DeSUS, Mr Žnidaršič was also in favour. I've already scored three of them anyway. Nor did the current economic minister, who had so much to say against this law, vote against it. The current Secretary-General, Mr Swickl, has not voted against either. Mr Posedel, too, did not vote against it. He didn't vote against it. Act on takeovers, third reading, when the law is adopted in full. So much for that. And that strengthens me once again in my conviction that this parliamentary investigation is about some kind of demonstration of powerlessness, the powerlessness of the current authorities. This phenomenon involves some kind of political speech and condemnation and not using the word "freaking" instead of using the institutions that we have, which every legal state must have to deal with such phenomena and create some normative environment, so that these supervisory institutions operate. So we should be in this fight if we had that. On the contrary, however. It's not for that kind of fight. Moreover, in the Guarantee Scheme Act tomorrow, even the coalition is signing an amendment that seeks to provide State guarantees for the reprogrammes of these loans. And don't ask me to tell you why the president of the government or the owner, the supervisor, and so on, has made it possible. That's what you do. The coalition's signing. The Government shall take measures to enable it to reprogram. You have a purpose. The second line is already clear. The second indent enabling this, and of which these public persons are, is clear in point. The Government has adopted a Guarantee Scheme Act allowing, under certain conditions, the reprogramme of these so-called tycoon loans. We threw it out on the Finance Committee. Now you're coming with an amendment, a coalition amendment, because the government can't go back in with this solution. And I'll answer you, so who are those public figures, the officials who are involved in these things. It is known that those who adopt legislation that allows such things to be condemned by you. It is only this total depravity that, on the one hand, it is political in all of this and, on the other hand, the legislation of the same Members and Members and Members' Groups makes this possible. This is for me, I don't know, these are actions far from words, and in fact we're practically used to it every day. So here was also mentioned the Mercator affair, as one of those who is the godfather of all of this. My humble opinion is that Mercator's affair was created because he didn't really buy it for that money, not because it was sold for that money. At the time, Mr Zoran Jankovic, the current mayor, who proposed and intended to conduct an internal closed recapitalisation at the same price, we all know that. Because this plan failed, the empire turned around, struck and struck today. That's it. At the time the price was not a problem, it was a fair price, given the circumstances at the time and so on. So... [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u121	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u122	So once again, Your Honor, I think if at least a few measures follow this intended clearance, then we will be very happy. However, if this is just a cover-up to be publicly condemned, in fact, the contested measures will be implemented and these activities will move forward, and it will be very difficult for us to work too. But do not think that the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which is responsible for everything related to public finances, including state guarantees, will continue these activities. Of course, we see how responsive or unresponsive they are in state institutions. In fact, there's been a complete confusion as to how many of these loans there are. On the one hand, it is said that this is little, we have a letter from the Bank of Slovenia, that this EUR 753 million is "a little" under quotes, according to the balance sheet amount of the banks. On the other hand, this is now some big problem, a reprogram of this. If this were a small sum, if this were a small volume of loans, then it would not be a serious matter in relation to the State guarantees for banks. Clearly, it is not such a small thing, and the Bank of Slovenia, through its annual report, found that it is 1.6 billion euros. Now we don't even know what the number is, whether it's 753 million or 1.6 billion. That is why I think such a parliamentary inquiry is also useful, for example, that we will not least clarify how much of this is and how this has a fatal impact on the health and credit activity of banks. In fact, the coalition is also in some trouble when banks are being blackmailed. The banks even say they will not join the guarantee scheme unless at the same time the government or coalition "fires up" the possibilities of reprogramming these so-called tycoon loans in the law. And, of course, that's why he's making state guarantees. I think that the government's behaviour to let state banks do so is, I would say, drive, politely, unworthy and unnecessary in these times when all banks are looking at governments for such and other assistance and support. If we look at the evidence that there have been so many and so many acquisitions in the previous term, I have already told you on several occasions that the number of acquisitions has also shown that the final legislative controls have started to work because they had previously taken over companies, and the ownership shares in them did not need to be published and the supervision of the institutions has not taken any voting rights. They actually had companies taken over because they had, I don't know, 10% here, 15% there in the parking lot. So together they had more than 25%, together in suspicion. I can tell you a few cases here by percentage. However, they did not have to be offered a takeover offer because the legislation was flexible and there was no supervision at the same time. With the new adoption of legislation, as well as with the staffing changes in the Securities Markets Agency, things have changed. In fact, the legislation became much sharper and demanded the volume of acquisition bids very soon, and so many companies went to take over and legalize what they had. The acquisition is nothing more than the fact that the intention is also communicated to all others, including small shareholders, that their rights are also that they can sell, if they want or remain under clear rules in the company. The number of takeovers also demonstrates the strictness of control and in some ways the appropriateness of legislation. Not only did this phenomenon happen at the time, but someone can't take over from anything. After all, they usually took over some of the connected individuals who had already acted in a coordinated manner and had previously announced the takeover. Now, you won't be asking yourself how these few connected people got these securities, which is very important. And not least, the economy, the low loans and the growth of businesses, the high cash flows, it brings, have encouraged those takers to make their way this way. Now they are little sorry that crisis times have happened and they cannot repay loans, and please do not help them now. If they counted, they counted. Whoever's involved, we need to find out. Whoever was involved in this, who approved these loans, any supervisor in addition to saying something, must be responsible for any member of the board of directors who knew about it. Any politician has ever called must be held accountable. He has to. We fully support this, and therefore we will also participate very constructively in this segment in this context of these "investigators". But I can almost imagine how this has been done. If any of us, when there was a tender to participate in the purchase of shares in the New Bank of Maribor, then people went to the banks for loans, and if anyone wanted to buy, say, for, say, 10,000 euro of the shares, he had to bet for about 20,000 assets or securities. I wonder, and it would be nice if this "explorer" found out how much or how much it took for Mr Igor Bavcar to deposit securities, to get a loan from the New Ljubljana Bank, or how much assets he had to set up Mr Šrot to get a loan from the New Ljubljana Bank. Or were the conditions so restrictive and so powerful at the time. Now the banks are moaning about it. That these are bad investments and that they need state guarantees for reprograms. These are all questions, which are of great interest to the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I think it is right and imperative that we cooperate in this parliamentary investigation, if we are of course willing and determined together. That's why it's in some way for us, let's say the proposaler's failure to invite us along. He didn't invite us. He says he ran out of paper, that he didn't have to use our signatures because he'd collected enough before that. Let's say I'm benevolent to this; as before, this word is expressed in a way that is repeatedly; and that I believe it. A busy pile of paper, including efforts, the political efforts of the party Really in the previous mandate of the branch from when we talked a lot about this parliamentary speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, it is likely that the Group of Members will consider or propose a few extensions of this time period. In particular, this is essential for these two specific cases, because these two specific cases did not take place after 2005, but were significantly earlier. And another example on the list of such cases would be helpful. Again, thank you so much for this opportunity. And if actions become the main guide in this anti-Taikun action, it will be much better than just political phrases, some principled acquisition, and of course things are going differently in the background.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Loise Posedel has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We really support the establishment of a parliamentary investigation in the Parliamentary Group. All nine members and members of our Group have signed this request, a request that has not been submitted by the parties to the coalition, it is not a matter of a coalition, it is not a matter of the Government, but a Member and Members who have decided that certain things should be explored. This support was therefore immediate and unanimous. And it was the immediate and unanimous support of all over 30 signatories. However, Mr Vizjak believes me or does not believe that the paper has not run out, but there have been simply enough signatures, and these have been collected in less than three hours during the session of Parliament. Just as colleagues and colleagues were coming to the meeting, we also collected signatures and virtually stopped collecting with your group. I am pleased, however, that you support and will actively cooperate to investigate what has been described as the subject matter of the investigation. I am also pleased that, in all the parliamentary groups, you agree that the circumstances that allowed such managers to take over need to be explored and that today, when this act of parliamentary investigation is just being established, it is inappropriate to discuss the conclusions. I am not surprised, Mr Vizjak is obviously an expert and has already mentioned the specific names of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Commission when presenting the opinion of the SDS Group. With the exception of two cases and the names of the companies Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško, we do not speak of any name in the drafting of the parliamentary inquiry. It is also not excluded that the case will not be extended either to banks or to any other company at the stage of the initiation of the parliamentary investigation. In the Zares Group, we really support the decision on just two cases called one of the predecessors, one of the school cases, just to set up a real time to determine, as soon as possible, which of the holders of public functions has, if any, participated, one of the supervisors representing the interests of the State of Common Property in State banks or in banks in a majority share, which of the supervisors participated in granting such loans and whether these loans were adequately secured or not. All that we want to find out with the parliamentary inquiry is only so far suspected, so far only rumors and without a serious and responsible approach to this work in the parliamentary committee are too bad that we are doing these flat-rate assessments to characterise someone in this way with something that is not necessary, and this is certainly not the intention of the sending group, indeed, or all those who have signed this initiative. We are also convinced that it is very unfair, by a fellow Visian, to read the names that have supported the takeover law. We would be happy to confirm this takeover law in the previous term substantially earlier. It would be correct to state why the ruling coalition did not wish to consider before this the proposal submitted by Dr Matej Lahovnik as the first to sign and the group of Members to prevent the continuation of the acquisitions. This law and this vote, which you presented, happened later, when Dr. Matej Lahovnik, together with a group of Members, tabled his proposal for the takeover Act, which would have prevented everything that had happened before, would have been different. Therefore, I will not use such harsh words as perversion, perversion and the like, so it will be enough to look at these dates in peace, determine when a matter has started and then publish them. Because, as you say, it is imperative that people find out by means of the parliamentary investigation procedure that the facts that, for your own political reasons, are being moved from the table to the table, whether the assessment and the selling price of Mercator shares were high enough or not. They're just individual evaluations. What counts and what should have its weight in this country's report, in the Court of Auditors' audit report, is stated that there is a risk that the highest price for Mercator's shares has not been reached in the way it was made. And that is why it is necessary for the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation to determine the procedure, the way and end this, I will say by your interference. And that this parliamentary investigation does not involve mixing events that are yet to happen that the word "Tajkun" was first expressed and spoken for this speaker. You can look at it, and I'm sure you also know who said it first, that even with all the credits, it is necessary to determine whether they were insured in any way. Above all, those who work and meet - and in our Group of Members - we are also double officials, including those who are mayors - and daily we experience the hardships of people who the Bank does not respect and allow them no reprogram. When a credit for the apartment has fallen, or for the land, or for the house, or for the farm, it simply hangs on the notice board and the sale process begins. No reprogram. That it happens that in meetings with directors we listen to banks not give up and not finance the turnover capital, not reprogramming, and individuals have such employees, both orders and machines, but do not reach the reprogram. And that's why we need to clear these things up. In the Parliamentary Group, really, it is about how incomprehensible at this time the banks, which - I confirm your words - are blackmailing the Government of Guarantees and threatening not to enter into the guarantee scheme, that it is probably incomprehensible on the part of the economy, that this proposal on the guarantee scheme has been valid for months and is not operational. But these are things that will happen, and it is right that the opposition also closely monitors them, that the issue which is back-to-back is the case, and it is right that this is examined in a parliamentary investigation - professionally within the framework of a regulation or legislation that makes it possible and no bad intentions or objections, why only these two cases. A simple proverb says that if you want to move a large pile of manure with fairies, your fairies just break. That is why we have decided on only two cases which are school cases, and I am sure that the conclusions from this will be enlightened for the future and, above all, to show the real picture of how these credits could have occurred and why they have happened. That is why there is also a short time frame and a small number. We really agree with this in the Group of Members. We will be happy to participate in this parliamentary investigation, and we want the first results to come as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group strongly insists and supports the decision to set up an investigative commission and to investigate these unclean transactions, which today certainly have a detrimental impact on our country's work. In addition to some other content, such as the negative consequences of the global economic and financial crisis, this content is reliable, i.e. taking over companies that are pushing the spirits of our citizens and citizens, and which at the same time gives rise to a lack of confidence in the work of not only national authorities and institutions, but also in the work of our politicians. I am convinced that all these negative phenomena have been fostered by a network of circumstances, and today the DeSUS Group is not interested in the lists of those who voted in favour of the 2006 takeover law, but we are particularly interested in the names of those who have played this law, who have taken this law in their own way and thereby caused greater social damage. At the same time, the DeSUS Group also wonders whether we do not have enough rule of law, whether we do not have enough law enforcement authorities to set up parliamentary investigative commissions and thus bring things to an end. In DeSUS, we do not fear and support an investigative commission, because DeSUS, I know for a fact, has certainly not promoted any corrupt or takeover of companies that fall under unclean practices. I am confident that this commission will set itself a short deadline in which it will carry out this task. Above all, we agree with the view that this list, which concerns only three associations or three companies, could be extended. And it would be good for us to have all the companies and banks on this list, the financial institutions that have been involved in these transactions, from which we expect something to come back today, and obviously it will be about reprogramming all the credits and none of it will. So, in the hope that order will not be enforced this time either, that if you want something to remain unexplored, you will set up a commission, then the DeSUS Group expects this parliamentary inquiry to produce results not only for the three or those economic institutions listed but also for those not on the list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We can say that the proposal for an investigative commission ahead of us is one force of rare moves where Members from all parliamentary parties, except from the SDS party, signed under this proposal. I must say that I have listened very carefully to the question or presentation of the position presented by their Member, Mr Vizjak, and I was really interested in what led them to this or what the argument was. I'm glad they said they'd be happy to take part in this investigation. I believe that this is in spite of the many concerns expressed today and from which branches are particularly embarrassing, but I think it does not embarrass us, Members of Parliament and Members, but it may be embarrassing to see some other moves made by people who are connected to individual political parties and where problems arise and where problems arise. For we know the Members and Members that we should also cover in many ways any irregular actions that may have been known or even in any way botteous to them in individual parties. But most of us have no problem with it, and I would like to point out in particular two things that have been discussed here today. We MEPs of Zareza in the early enough times, if I say so, have given quite a few messages, a few questions, something to warn you about, press conferences on what is going on in the area of acquisitions. Our Member, Mr Lahovnik, has already begun to point out that things are happening somewhere back there, when many have not actually seen what banks and some so-called tycoons are cooking. He prepared a proposal for amendments to the law, and I think that at the time, most of them did not want to understand what he was alerting us to. Of course, things changed later. Thus, those tycoons who were under some political options were no longer obedient. Then the record turned around, and suddenly we saw that there was much more talk about the tycoons. Secondly, what I would like to point out and where we have also been very active is the move and action of colleague William Trophynik, who has constantly requested information on what is happening in the so-called state banks. So banks in the majority ownership of the country, especially the NLB and the NKB; what is happening, what credits they approve, to whom they are approved, under what conditions and so forth. We came across a colleague who was working on these financial committees, financial control and so on, the wall of silence, both by the then government, the then coalition, the then ministers, Mr Bayuk was very active at the time - because they did not participate, they did not come, there were no answers, there were no reports, there were no lists and so on. Why not, we can only wonder, for most of these things, if the data we've been listening to or reading about in the past few weeks, most of these credits, regardless of how anyone wants to be erased today, have been approved in the last two years, even after the amount of finance. This is a fact and these are problems, although today - yes, we don't know, we don't even know how much it is! It's sad. Unfortunately, at least for the state's two banks, the para-state, if we say so, is also responsible for the government. The government has placed its supervisors in these banks and has greatly increased their meetings, their awards and even allowed them to participate in the profits. And these supervisors, even in NKBM and also in the New Ljubljana Bank, were appointed by the previous government, the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank was still in this position today, a member of the SDS party, and, of course, these people were also - unlike very much today we are talking about this perverse loan of Mr Kramar - have been collecting and also taking such awards, very astronomical as well as participating in profit. No problem at all! That prize, Kramer's, was therefore high because he didn't pay it off in the first place, but they left it to each other, all in turn, even members of the SDS party. The President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, including the supervisors, took part in this. I don't know what the job of supervisors is. If the supervisors did not know what was going on in the bank, they would be obliged to tell someone that they are not controlling things, that the management is working past them, that credits are being approved past them. I didn't read anything about these warnings. Nothing so far! And here I think it's okay, and I don't see any problems that we're actually going to be dealing with just two cases: the Lashko Brewery and the Mercator. Why? Through these two cases, which I think we will be dealing with systematically, planally, specifically with all the behaviour that Members and Members have, we will be able to process typical cases. We don't have to blur things out like you did in the last term, when you've been investigating eighty-eight cases with an investigator and each time you've spent a few minutes; I think someone's done this statistics and the thing hasn't been longer than thirty minutes for one case. This is clearly clear that the aim is to blur. I think it is right that we have decided to go in two cases in our parliamentary group, where this initiative came from with our colleague Posedel. I'm sure we can find everything in these two cases. All other cases, in particular whether the public function holders have been associated with these acts, or whether this has occurred, I will say, the influence, who and how they participated in the decisions of these two para-state banks. I think it is right for us to do this here in Parliament. Many supervisory institutions do not perform their functions, are not prepared to participate in these matters and, last but not least, we can monitor many of the manoeuvres around these situations. I also have to say that they talk a lot about the profession, that the profession is supposed to decide, that the profession should decide on the loans in the bank. I don't trust her anymore. I don't trust her. To such administrations, to such supervisory councils that have done all this in the way that we are monitoring today - if this is the profession, then we can only be disappointed at what expertise we have in Slovenia. I think that the supervisory councils and administrations should simply, at least where our taxpayer money is concerned, and we have financed, recapitalised, strengthened it with our funds, with our taxpayer money, so I think we have every right to know what someone is doing now on our behalf. And in the time of the government of Mr Janez Janš, however, these supervisory councils in these para-State banks did not do their duty. There, for years and years, all four years, credits that allowed for these perverse acquisitions that we're talking about. The acquisitions that all of us could actually have. I don't know why one of us couldn't buy all of Telekom's shares and give them a guarantee or a guarantee to set up the same shares for it. I think that anyone could do this, of course, if he had enough political botres or experts behind him, in connotations that are still connected, these great experts, and then this profession, which was intertwined at all levels, approved things of one another and allowed these acquisitions, which today hold the neck of all Slovenian banking, but not least of all Slovenian politics. I think that this decision to set up a parliamentary commission is good, that the cases are the most real, most typical, that on these two cases we can explore a lot of where the core is, where things have started, who has participated, who is guilty, some things, conclusions. Maybe something will come up. I hope that, because that is certainly what our citizens and citizens who are in trouble today will want. I hope that the parliamentary commission will be successful in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The possible involvement of individual public function holders and the price of any impact on so-called tycoon loans has aroused a lot of interest in the public. The acquisitions of various companies certainly did not take place without political bots, especially when it comes to the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank Maribor. It's not just the managers who found themselves in the right place at the right time, it's the law and the bank. In newspapers and magazines, we read insightful articles about the unemployed, the recession, the unconscious managers, and various social policy topics. The difference between the rich and the poor is growing. More and more young people with college education are waiting for work, the country on the one hand is saving poverty with social transfers, and on the other hand, it is helping banks with guarantees to save the tycoons from the misery they have jointly cooked. What's left? The remaining are small and medium-sized enterprises, but they will not be able to survive from the promise. It is right to point to those who have put the country in such a hopeless financial position. But if we look at it now, nothing has done to make the so-called tycoons stand before the law of persecution and sing the feat of truth. People don't know the banking and monetary system, because otherwise what we don't want will happen. Banks come in a very simple way to get money. And when the state and politics stand by them, there is no fear that they should fear for existence - despite the great sums they have spent on managers' buyouts. Of course, such work around various management buyouts would not be so attractive if things were going transparently, in the eyes of the public. But, no. Strange things were happening, and drops were leaking to the public. So he became even more doubtful, and in the final stage, it turned out that research journalists were right when they discovered the whole matter at the beginning, and the responsible ones did not listen. This makes it possible to think that politics and government are linked to the so-called tycoons that are voting on money and power. In public, however, he wants to give the impression that he is fighting them with all his might. Packages of measures do not produce positive effects; they are all sort of drawn like the yoke of a snake. That's the last thing I ask myself is, who should we check on, the ones from before or now? Everyone knows each other, in a way they've co-decided, and nobody wants to take responsibility. It is therefore right to support this act of parliamentary investigation and to clarify why such anomalies have occurred. However, those responsible must also account for the cost of their property.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u131	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, much has been said about this commission of inquiry or the establishment of this commission of inquiry, including the fact that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are not co-signers of what is of course not order. I am not only a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I am still a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am co-signatory of the requirement, as stated in Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry - at least one third of Members. However, nothing on the part of the coalition has been said that my signature on this request does not apply. And if this is not valid and if I am a Member of the National Assembly under Article 1, then I am also a Member under paragraph 5 of this Article of the same Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, which states that the President of the Commission of Inquiry is elected from among the Members, it is not written anywhere from the groups of Members, but from the Members who have applied for parliamentary investigation. Or, in other words, of course, it could be said that the government coalition used me to obtain a signature, but not because of the possibility of carrying out a job as a Member, the Member is independent under Article 82 of the Constitution and is not bound by any instructions. The Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation are governed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Where the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry do not contain any reference to an unrelated Member, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly shall apply mutatis mutandis. However, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly make it clear in its Article 34 that a Member has expressed his wish to participate in any working body of the National Assembly; that is, any ad hoc working body of the National Assembly is an investigative committee and does so by informing the President of the National Assembly in writing. I had already done this myself when the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group gave up my work in three working bodies, but after the intervention of the President of the National Assembly, I was again given a job in three working bodies. As a Member, I do not allow myself, and it would indeed be totally undemocratic that a ruling coalition would violate the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, consequently, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Inquiry. My signature remains with this investigative committee, but I request the President of the National Assembly and also the KVIAZ Election and Appointment Commission to take account of me, in accordance with the above-mentioned acts from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Inquiry, as taken into account by the National Assembly when it found that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure, an initiative has been tabled to request an investigative commission to do so also when appointing the members of the President and the Vice-President of the Labour Commission. On this point, some who have talked about whether they are successful or unsuccessful, that they are an instrument of opposition. I agree that this is indeed an instrument of opposition, not a ruling coalition. It is true, however, that the original sin and the mortal sin of tycunization, the theft of social property stems from the amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act 1994; then the theft of TAM, Elan and others began. I am sorry that there is no Mirk Zammernik among our fellow Members today, who has successfully led the two investigative commissions, but I am sure that he will also win by a preferential vote, number 5, and will be a good representative of our country in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much, although the last one doesn't belong here. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Yes, I am glad that this came to light once and that it is clear that Slovenians and Slovenians are actually demanding this investigative commission. And I'm going to add another argument today, which there was no talk about today at all. So today, all of them, all of them, all of them in Slovenia, all of them are tycoons, so those managers who are a good guy or a bad guy, I've talked about this once before, and I want this commission to come up with a name and a name for the tycoon. Finally, we can say that they will also get names and names, because now we can generalize it, everyone makes fun of it, and everyone gets labels if they're guilty or not. I therefore expect that once this word "Tajkun" has been concluded by this Commission, it will also end. Of course, from this context it is necessary to say that the Commission is welcome and that it is nice to clarify and clarify all matters relating to this so-called tycoonisation. It is easy to label today with different labels, with political labels, with the political state in which the parties have been and so on, but I think this is not the main problem. The main problem is who made it possible. Who was involved? Who was the responsible person at the time? Who was in the government at the time? Where did this happen? Where did it start? Which office did this start? Did this tycoonization really begin with the beginning of privatisation in 1991? And so on. Were there instances of screaming at that time? What's the worst? That's why I decided to support it. Laško and Istrabenz are among those who will show up and prove who was involved and who was involved. But I do appreciate that today it is necessary to say clearly and loudly that this is not a major topic, this is not the main theme of this Parliament and this government. The main theme is to continue dealing with anti-crisis measures and to speed up the government's preparations for a rebalancing that we will have to get to Parliament sooner or later. These are the main themes. That it will not again inform this Parliament that the main topic is the Commission of Inquiry! I myself will participate in this to a considerable extent, as much as knowledge permits me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u135	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u136	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present. It was said that this request for a parliamentary inquiry was signed by all parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary groups, not only by the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's not true. Members and Members of the ruling coalition signed the primary request. 30 drawers were intended for them, so the printing of this material appears, and members of the Slovenian National Party subsequently signed. The others were obviously not allowed to see the matter too wide and too democratic. It is also interesting that this proposal focuses on only two companies. We know, however, that the problem that is supposed to be discussed in this investigation is much broader; according to the latest information from the Bank of Slovenia, it is very wide and deep. Despite the fact that we listened to how so-called management loans do not jeopardise Slovenia's banking system last year and are not problematic because they cover around 600 million euros. Now we hear it's a figure of 3 billion euros. It probably didn't come about in the last year - or what? And who was fooling someone here? And why was it not possible at last year's extraordinary meeting in the National Assembly, which we had in the middle of the year, by the Bank of Slovenia to obtain any data? Because all of this information was hidden for a formula of strict confidentiality or secrecy. At that time, it was pointed out that Slovenia's debt was problematic in the wider sector, particularly in the population sector. Now, all of a sudden, we are getting closer and closer to the point where it is obvious that a decision will have to be taken on the rehabilitation of at least one of the state banks, which obviously will have to be paid by taxpayers. Now I don't know if this investigative commission of ruling smoke curtains for this story is possible, is there a smoke screen for what is happening in the last days by the government, when we heard on one side of the month how those who are extending so-called tycoon loans have to respond, but now we have in the National Assembly a novelty of the guarantee scheme law which allows for the extension of these loans and which you will obviously support. That is how I feel, and I am ever closer to creating in this case a scene that is supposed to cloud what the rulings will be doing in this mandate in the background; and this investigative commission will serve only that. And that is, if I use the same terminology as you did years ago, the government coalition investigation committee. I would like to know if she will also be named in the media as one another in the previous term, when it has been said that it is unethical, immoral, unacceptable for those entrusted with the rule to establish investigative commissions. Even though we know what the Constitution stipulates, we know that the Constitution does not distinguish between such or other Members. The Constitution refers to at least a third of the members of the National Assembly who may request the establishment of an investigative commission and, if such a request is submitted, an investigative committee should be set up. No matter what sex such a request comes from. The only reason I'm giving these cases is to tell you what kind of mirror you are. Because you have shown earlier than in a relatively long time that you are nothing different, but perhaps even worse than what you have read to us; sooner than in a few years you have proved it. At the time, I said that it was not important which parliamentary group came from which to sign the request for the establishment of an investigative commission and that, in any event, any investigative committee was the investigating committee of the National Assembly. Regardless of which group of Members are the signatures of Members and Members requiring such an order. And I'm gonna take it myself, and that's how I'm gonna take it. I think it is right that you have already done this coalition investigative commission on the start, that at least all the parliamentary groups are participating in its work and that this investigative commission continues its work as an investigative commission of this National Assembly. I have a very serious problem as far as the scope of this investigation is concerned. If I paraphrase the former MP and the current Minister of Lachovnik, out, ladies and gentlemen, "they shoot your heads." With this investigation you are proposing, "shooting out" Mr Kramar, Mr Veselinović, Mr Boško Šrot - your head itself. It is not long before Mr Boško Šrot, through the universal Slovenian public, wrote to your President, the current Prime Minister of the Government, a public exit from the Party of Social Democrats. And your Prime Minister of the Government has responded to this general public statement of his exit. So I hope that in searching for "these heads of yours" you will separate the grains from the weeds and that you will not stop in reviewing the travel tasks, but with the millionth prize, let's say, how someone without a normal procedure was granted a multimillion-dollar loan, and that you will not only limit yourself to these two cases, Istrabenz and Laško, but you will look at Mercury and all the others that have been serviced by the New Ljubljana Bank. How is it possible for an undertaking to obtain more than €70 million in loan extension earlier than it did within one week without providing any evidence to secure that loan? And that in December 2008, when we talked everywhere about how cancer is the wound of our society and when companies died every day because they couldn't borrow jobs, so that their employees would have a job. That is why we have witnessed a series of bankruptcys in the last three months. Companies with long-standing brands die with a 50-, 60-, 70-year tradition. And they failed in the vast majority because this so-called credit crunch on the one hand did not give up and still does not give up and is also impossible for companies with quality programs to borrow credits for production and for work. On the other hand, €3 billion is being revolving in some management buyouts. And the problem that I have is that unfortunately the coalition has decided to limit this investigation to a smaller part, which raises doubts about the real purpose of this, because, after all, we have, or the ruling coalition has, all the instruments in our hands, all the mechanisms that we can do with other ways of doing this. After the resignation of the Director or Head of the main two regulators in early 2008, the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Securities Market Agency, which have been established in those two chairs, Mr Plahutnik and Mr Neven Borak, they have been two since these two offices were established there, and they have not been replaced since they were appointed before 2004 by five years. It's a very difficult reason to call it off. Until they gave up on their own, there was virtually nothing they could do. Only after the Human Resources Change with Mr. Soršak to UVK and Mr. Žuglje to the ATVP began to take place, of course on the basis of a preliminary amendment to the takeover Act, where the so-called Lahovnik novel in 2005 or 2006 would not have regulated what this 2006 novel had arranged; for the 2006 novel was the one that discovered the cap that said, "Gentlemen, expose yourself!" Everything that's been hidden for 10 years or more has come into play. These collectors, ladies and gentlemen, did not come into existence in 2005 nor in 2006, they were created in the years before, and concentration and plans and takeover activities began to take place substantially earlier, even at the time that Mr Lahovnik was in another government minister in 2004, which was called the Rop government. Interestingly, he did not come with the takeover Act at the time when the Minister of Economy in the Robbery government, if the problem was so acute. Suddenly, he flashed when he landed in the opposition and filed a law that was flawed. And then it was said that you, then me, didn't back him up, and that's why it's this mess. That's not true! The law has been brought by the former Minister of Economy to the National Assembly and Mr Vizjak has shown you that you have also supported it, by a majority. And thank God he was accepted. On the basis of this law, on the basis of this amendment of the takeover law, on the basis of a different part of both regulators, this story began to be revealed and we have only learned how much, where and what is happening in this area; of course, with the assistance of banks. That's an inevitable fact. Apparently past the control boards, through the administrations. In some ways, however, the way this initiative has taken place and the establishment of this commission of inquiry is probably also an expression of the powerlessness of the ruling coalition. And it is a fear that we will not resolve this problem in this mandate, which is bad for everyone. If the purpose of this commission of inquiry is just this - and obviously this - to sort of calm the public down in some way, then I think it's very bad. About that event that you mention and will still be, obviously - August 2005 - about a meeting that is supposed to be the origin of all that you all know is not true, there is a record that is official and everything is written in it. About a meeting that took place days ago at a pastry shop here in Ljubljana, when the candidate for the purchase of Mercator from Croatia from Orbico met with Kučan there was no record! No record! And interestingly, no one cares if the gentlemen have talked about which dessert is better, or if they have talked about anything else. But we don't read it anywhere, and nobody cares. So it's likely that they were really talking about whether they are baking better pastries here in Ljubljana or somewhere in Croatia. I believe that deeply. And I don't have a problem with that. In short, it is my opinion that it would be at least right for us to work together, not as you set the matter up at the outset, and that the things that need to be settled should be taken seriously, otherwise I fear that the real effect of this investigative commission will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u137	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It started off pretty well today. We are all and have agreed that the Commission is useful, the fact that Members and Members of the various parliamentary groups signed the initiative is a promising fact. We also listened to the official position of the SDS Group. Mr Vizjak was also shining with joy when he said he was looking forward to participating in this committee. But then came Mr. Cernač, who tells us another story: SDS is not happy, it is not particularly pleased that this commission will finally begin to explore and also clarify certain aspects of disputed acquisitions. Of course, it's about the 2005 minutes. If I am not mistaken, Mr Chernač, that record was signed by Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem. Mr Černač forgot to say that the second record, which was significantly longer, happened. From the same author! And that record, which was long, exhausting, very detailed, told and revealed the true story of the then takeover of Mercator. And in that story, how the government of Mr. Janez Janša was involved. But our purpose was not to play ping-pong again, opposition and position. Because everything comes from experience, from the bitter experience we have experienced in our coalition in this mandate. Actually, reprogramming the loan to Mr. Srot's holding company was a drop over the edge. And everyone knows and you all know, fellow Members, what a hot debate has arisen within the coalition. Because coalition doesn't mean we feel and think the same way at the same time. We're thinking, we're being self-critical, and at a certain point, it was clear to us that these stories should be downloaded, reprogrammed disputed loans said, "End!" And that's why we took that position, the coalition thought it over, thought it over, and took a clear view of such phenomena, and today we are here - with a proposal and an initiative for an investigative commission to clarify why these infamous tycoon stories have occurred. Let's talk briefly about the notion of tycoon takeover. Who are the tycoons? Are these some honest managers who work, who sweat and slowly, gradually, with their work, their honest capitalist work, come to great wealth - no! In our version, the tycoon is the one who, with skilled speculations, always at the edge of legality - on the edge - not illegal, on the edge of legality can use all possible tricks to ensure that the state financial institution, that is, the state bank, finances some credit, and with that credit it can take over some of the assets. Part of the state or parastatal property as well. So, this is the typo we're talking about here today. And I think that's the notion of tycoonism that we all agree with -- opposition and coalition. I have no doubt that we have here all who are sitting in the National Assembly, the interest to clarify why we are on the legal path, but always on the brink of legality, we can come to such acquisitions. And the fact is, it's not just on one side. I am in this mandate - in the previous term, I was not in the National Assembly - but I recall the attempt by my colleague Lahovnik and the current Minister of Economy, Matthew Lahovnik, to prevent Thai takeovers with one law. This marriage didn't get your support. And it would be nice to find out today who voted against that experiment. Let us say this to the public - who voted at the time and prevented Laholovnik's law from "going forward". I'm interested. I'm curious because I wasn't there at the time, but I know it happened in the National Assembly. Let's move on. We have two cases, the most infamous: Šrot's Laško or today we are talking about holding and, of course, Mercator and Istrabenz. Two eccentric cases. Why these two? I agree with those who say that the research and clearing range should be expanded. I agree, and I hope this happens. But somewhere we need to start and set up a framework where cleaning is possible and quite quickly. Because this is the only way to offer a precedent, that is to say, a clean-up model that can then be applied in other cases. And the fact is, as colleague Chernač warned that "they're shooting some heads" and they don't have these heads, they probably don't have an SDS card. This should encourage and cheer you up. But I see certain concerns on your faces. Still. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, anyway. [[...]] And I'm interested. We're not worried! If we propose this today and want it, we are not concerned. Because we are aware that the matter is not the story of one or two parties. The parties in this process of tycoon takeover and policy work transversally. They cross customers, the whole fabric of these diverse speculation interests. That's a fact, and that's why we're here today to clear up! And those signatories to this proposal are aware that this commission will not protect one party or another, but it will clear up these phenomena and it will be interesting to see what and where some specific weight in the political space has appeared more frequently in these acquisitions. The fact is that statistics speak little to the detriment of the previous government and there have been these eccentric cases. The fact is that former Prime Minister Janša was personally involved in negotiations for Mercator's takeover by Shrota is what happened. Why it happened, we know because it was a deal, I give you a Mercator, you give me control of the biggest newspaper house, that's what happened. The witness is your member or former member, Mrs Starina Kosem, and then things turned around, changed, and suddenly the SDS also discovered the evil of tycoonism. Thank God! And today we are united about cleaning things up. No matter how painful things may be, it will probably hurt; it will probably hurt, on your side and also on our side. But we're for the truth to come out. I have also presented to the public today an initiative that is a force similar to that of the Commission of Inquiry. It is an initiative to clarify the truth about the so-called foyers or the karst pits that attract the neo-fascist on the one hand, on the other, our citizens dressed as partisans and who actually separates the population from the border and where politics speculates. He speculates on unknown facts. It is therefore an initiative for the two governments to agree on the establishment of an investigative commission or a historical commission, forensicians and spleologists, and to explore the contents of those karst pits. In the same way, we also seek to clear up these truths in the bottomless tycoon loans, tycoon acquisitions and so on. Only the truth will actually lead us to a methodology for preventing further or speculation or further abuse - on the one hand, history and on the other hand, public capital and tax money. It's a very simple story. This time I was elected to Parliament and I look forward to our party's participation in this committee. This Commission, of course, is not a substitute for those bodies to which we are obliged to leave the other dimension of the investigation - this is the Court of Auditors, on the one hand, on the other hand, the anti-corruption commission, but unfortunately, from the types of SDS comes the most objections at the expense of those bodies which should be holy in the rule of law. But no, they're disturbing. They are disturbed by the fact that they have once identified one truth, the second and, of course, those truths do not please the ruling ones. We have another government now. You are the opposition, you have a second chance, and I hope you will participate actively in this committee and look forward to working together. Because without the opposition, this commission would not be credible. And it is not true that members of the government coalition should not simply propose such a commission. Then you corrected yourself and said that there was no article in the law, not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the Constitution, which would prevent such a thing. The fact is, it can also trigger a coalition. It is important that the opposition, as in all commissions, be included and that the functioning of this commission of inquiry will be completely transparent, completely clear, completely fair. So it's time to get rid of tycoon speculation. You know that the financial crisis and recession are also, in particular, the result of tycoon or management speculation logic and tycoon behavior - not only in Slovenia, but globally. The supremacy of Taiwanese capitalism has led to the collapse of productive, creative capitalism and the domination of financial, speculational capitalism. And this has unfortunately been born and developed in our country. Although our country was better equipped than other transition countries, there was still mentality and a psychological structure of co-responsibilities that may have been the result of so much criminalised self-government. But we still had in our mentality the fact that we have to control ourselves, that we have to control something in common. And this has also happened to some extent until new protagonists and also legislation have emerged, which has allowed for the actual jump of new tigers or new tycoons who, in cooperation with the government and the ruling policy, have been able to take over part of social property and social capital. This was happening at macro level and at micro level. At the micro level, this has happened by some CEOs and directors or even supervisors buying shares of their own company with loans. So, a similar phenomenon on a micro level for a million, a million and a half euros, I will not now mention names again, but it is also a famous story from a coastal large logistics company where they rented about a million euros at a state bank and bought shares on the fact that they were privileged because they had insider information and knew exactly that one week later the stock would go up in value. And this was all lawful; sadly all was lawful. We need to establish a system that will essentially put such an action outside the law. And that's a fact! Once we have achieved this, we will achieve a real shift in the prevention of the supremacy of tycoon logic. So let me reiterate, on behalf of other colleagues from Zares, and also congratulate my colleague Loizet Posedel on preparing this initiative. This initiative is the continuation of the policy which our group has advocated with concrete proposals. I also expect an answer as you voted at the time on Mr Lahovnik's proposal; this is the continuation of that policy, policy of principle and transparency in business. Sometimes we're disgusting, not just you in the opposition, we can be disgusting to a lot of people, we're a thorn in the heel. "We weigh", "we weigh", we insist, we do not let go, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u139	Mr. Friend, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's just that some things are hard to hear. Personally, you are in charge of the session today, I don't mind if one of the present makes a small advertisement for someone who is running in the European elections, although this has nothing to do with the topic that we are currently dealing with - this is the establishment of an investigative commission. It bothers me, however, if colleague Franco Juri here is talking about the rights of fascists who are in a bad position because their causes are not clear. That bothers me. And I'd like to ask you if, when you're conducting the session, you can point out where we are. They have nothing to do with this, which is what we're talking about now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you for saying that out loud because it's sad of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u144	I understand perfectly well, John Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. As for your first statement, I also warned Mr Pukšič at the end. As far as Mr Yuri's statement and debate are concerned, I have listened to it well and I do not think I have to interrupt it. Replica, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to this eternal sequel and the eternal accusation of the former Prime Minister of the Government. When a record is not enough for you, you pull another one that you don't even know where it is or what it says. This thing, I have to say, is already screwed up and people don't believe you anymore. You're on your way. You've gone too far. This story is similar to that of Patricia. And you discredit yourself by constantly cracking and spinning this story. You quoted me wrong, too. I did not talk about the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party is unhappy, you said that we are concerned about this investigative commission, even if we oppose it or that I objected to it. Far from it. Far from it. I have even said that, on your part, your representative has been misspoken, what we have already been used to from her has been the case, that we listen to persistent falsehoods and lies, that she did not want a parliamentary group or Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to sign these requirements. I told you that in these 30 columns, your Members and Members are themselves. 30 of these are SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS and then added to the list of members from the Slovenian National Party. That's right. Why you picked that way is your problem, not mine, not ours. We don't oppose him. And I set you up with a mirror. In your previous mandate, you opposed that those Members who make up government parties could request an investigative commission. It was you, not us, we don't object, even though it was required on our part at the time, because we didn't have a third in the previous term, just as you do now, so you can request an investigation. We'll be happy to take part in this story. All we are surprised is why it is limited to individual entities, why there are no individual entities where things would make you even more burdensome. By the way, the current Minister Lahovnik was mentioned as rejecting his proposal for a law when the opposition MP was here. Six months earlier, he was a minister in the government of Rob, and this same law could have brought him to the National Assembly. Just a little while ago, he wrote a buy-in management program in BTC, which was found to be the worst wildest property in the country. And, interestingly, this BTC is not in this investigation. He's not here. Nor do we wonder who the tycoon is, look, your ministers in the government are asking now who the new tycoon is. And I said, the greatest seriousness, if you really do, you will show in the National Assembly when it is necessary to vote that the extension of these loans in the guarantee scheme, even with the State guarantee, which your Government is now proposing, will not be allowed. If you vote that this is not allowed, you will be credible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Three minutes, end of line.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u148	Or else I won't. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u149	Mr. Rado Likar has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Then Mr. Lucky Friend has it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am a signatory to this, I can say, the newly established commission; I hope that this will not be prevented in any way or other. There's something I'd like to point out. The purpose of this Commission is to clarify all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško. I cannot agree with the predecessors who say that such work is the power of one person alone. I firmly believe that this is an organised criminal economic association, which is said to be organised crime. How could one person, for example, Mr Bavčar, convince the entire supervisory board if he did not have this agreed on first. It's just not possible. Of course, an investigation cannot be its own intention. I hope that this will not, and I hope, answer other questions that may arise in addition to the extension of the competences of this Commission. I myself would like to respond to examples that we have already forgotten. Like the Triglav Insurance Company. That's where Mrs Klemenčičova, we know how she got her equity share. She pawned the remaining shares, and most of these modern - day tycoons did so because they were allowed to do so by law. So it was just doing my homework. We forgot, I believe, about how we destroyed TAM, and how we sold Elan, but how we actually sold, I don't know, the tobacco factory, which was once the pride of Slovenia, how good brands were destroyed by modern managers, such as Kolinska and Droga Portorož, and nobody was responsible, with a strong brand, people are on the road today. Of course, these questions require a certain answer. I firmly believe that maybe we'll be one step closer to bringing someone with suspicion to court. But, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you something, everyone here is present. Why do law enforcement authorities remain silent if we somehow know this, if this is a common fact? Why do law enforcement authorities remain silent? For instance. We also have failed attempts at management acquisitions, such as the MIP. It's obvious that there was an experiment, and then the wolf family changed their minds a little bit, and they preferred to register the company abroad and transfer the production there. A manifest violation of labour law, economic laws and so on and so on. And nothing happens. In this case, we can say, "The law enforcement authorities are silent." We shouldn't have. Mr. Bavčar certainly knows a great deal. He no doubt knows much about what others did when they were still together and is likely to be tolerated in this way. It's easy for the nose to pull a whole universe of Slovenia. Once again, he would be a few more CEOs and next time he would just be a member of the board and so on and so on. Interesting. The Supervisory Board or the Committee shall even support it in these actions. So it's about manipulation, it's about organised crime, it's about organised criminal associations, and there's a well-organized criminal society behind each of these cases. The banks are also here, with their supervisory authority, which, of course, has to check before granting such a loan, even if it is paid in millions of dollars just like that, without any strong guarantees. And interestingly enough, none of these gentlemen responds with their property, personal, because that would be too much for them. But what they took, of course, was faithfully copied to their marriage partners or other friends, not to say so, sweetheart. I would like this commission, of course, to give the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a little more power, because, as we can see, at least I personally see it from my own experience, that the Minister does not order anything with us, and the President of the Government is even less. And you could see the same thing at the millionth prize, which was not yet returned today, and also at the thirteen, fourteen wages or Christmas houses that Mr Borut Pahor wanted to prevent, there was no possibility, because there was no leverage either. They could only follow warnings, requests, but of course there was nothing more that could be done. No one will give us back the parade horses of the Slovenian economy, as I mentioned earlier, these companies, but I believe that we will be able to save at least one of these if we are in principle, consistent and immediate. However, as far as it is known, these commissions, which have been set up so far, neither of them intended to bring the case before a court, although there is likely to be a lot of arguments and evidence in the investigation that they could do so. I say we can do this today. I argue that, in essence, the source of the individual's assets can be verified at a good week with each individual, because if we are in a society that is obviously also based on the fact that the property is declared and that it is transparent within the EU, then we can also see who took something to another bank. But we don't want that either. We just don't want that. And I am afraid, of course, that this Commission will be one of the many other committees, that we will meet together, otherwise we will work to have conclusions, and only in the end will there be no decision that would lead to a clear decision. If that happens, it is irrelevant that we continue to do anything today. I would like this commission to start working immediately, as soon as possible, and to extend this circle to listen to others who would like to open these matters, which are evident and which can be proven. Not only these two companies, which are of course the largest and the loudest. The greatest damage to property may have occurred from these two addresses, but we can also talk about others. I'd like to make one last point. The rights of these workers, who have worked in good companies where their employment relationship has been concluded, will have to pay the rights of these workers tomorrow in some way in return for the social allowance through the state's unemployment. Why isn't the state here? Why a country that has all the arguments has tax, police, has an insight into the business documents, why the tax or state as such is not the body that would recover the irregularities that have occurred. Simply put, someone's been doing business without the edge of a possibility and never went to the other side, it's just not true. The agreements were cartel, the agreements were grouped, bankers, supervisors and managers met together, at the same meetings and, of course, with the date it was covered. When, how, and who were agreed in advance. Anyway, not just these two, we can see that if we want. I believe that what we are going to do, do and explore on this committee will be written in the mountains of paper. However, I also believe that when a report is made that a legal silence will arise again and that these authorities, who should make sure that they bring the right back to the company on official duty, will not do their job again. In the end, I'd like to mention a general voyage. When we had the report of the corruption commission, the Kosovo Commission, I made it clear here, in the National Assembly, that Kos was aware that the police knew someone from February, one of the political parties, had paid money in a million dollars so that the sale could take place just in the minister's office, without a prior assessment of the value of this company to a foreigner. This has not been denied until today. Last but not least, we have asked the question of the two ministers, the Minister and the Minister. I hope that criminalist who has this information, including criminal charges, is in a dozen years to finally talk. Maybe he's afraid or he's been ordered to remain silent. There are cases in which staff with known surnames and names are involved, and I believe that solidarity may also be involved, this false solidarity from this place to this gentleman. Of course, I would like to open another case, that this commission is not only working on these two companies and that the work produces fruit. Above all, that the culprits not only get muddled in the newspaper, but also bring them to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u151	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say the introduction that I'm glad something's finally starting to move. It is therefore far from capable political impulses to mislead people and to create a fog that any one of our benches is concerned. Far from it. We were preparing a similar matter, so you hid it from us and didn't give us signatures, and you just got a little ahead of yourself. But it's nothing. More than that, I think that in this unfortunate situation in Slovenia, when we are in Slovenia before the banks are rehabilitated, which citizens, taxpayers will have to do, is only a little more encouraging. So, luck in this case is that there are European elections ahead of us and that some customers, where their members and their tycoons have their hands in sacks up to their shoulders, have to create a smoke screen. And they're actually worried if everything gets as lucky as it was supposed to be in these investigations. And I assure you that everything will not be happy to come to you on the day of these deals and to associate these tycoons with you, with your customers, I do not say with you, with background. I don't think Slovenians are so stupid that they don't know how long it's been going on, when it's been ordered these directors to prepare everything for the companies they own, to set up parallel companies, to transfer profits to those companies and then to own from those companies. The pattern is general and the order was made out of political types and this is very covert. And that was during the LDS government. The LDS now split into three parties, LDS, Reals and SD. However, the SD has always been a sponsor and its centres of power from behind. And look, I'm sure this place has to be cleared up. It is necessary to clarify, and you write in this paper that the vulnerability of banks has increased. When you wrote that, you used that term, the vulnerability of the banks. Now the governor and the minister himself have said that our banks are in pretty bad shape, about ratings and borrowing from outside. Also on the basis of a State guarantee intended to allow normal conditions for another part of the economy, the marginal economy, the smaller companies. These tycoons have been affected for a long time. But what is it? Now it's no longer vulnerability, now it's a bad situation. The state has come to depend on others. The state has become dependent and subjugated. I wonder why this subordinate situation, bringing it into a subordinate position sanctioned by our Penal Code in Article 350, is an attack on independent states, in 357. Sabotage, why does no law enforcement agency sanction this? Why doesn't he press charges? I hope that, through this commission, we will also send complaints to sanction this in this chapter, which also deals with issuing countries. It's about betraying the country, be assured. And if there were different times when there was a death penalty across Europe, I am not looking forward to it and I do not want it back, then some of those who betrayed the country should also be hanging on this monument of revolution. As part of this smoke screen, you talk a lot about these meetings, which has already been said today, by the former Prime Minister of the Government. It is interesting that no one mentions Mr Kučan's meeting with Shrot in Palmizana in Hvar. The financing was reported to have occurred at a remote location, in the wind of palm trees and all that. These meetings have been innumerable. I will follow this investigative commission with interest and see how the evidence will be drawn if these parties, who have the majority, are proposed to be one of the main witnesses, not the first witnesses, Mr Golobič, who knows the most about the establishment of bank administrations from those times; he has directly staffed Mr Kramar; he will also be able to tell before the investigative commission under arrest what he ordered, what all the tasks are, the obligations of these administrations in exchange for the terrible awards that went into the millions sums. This has already been said today, about which you all agree that these awards were not just from God given, but for political obligations, for counterservices. I'm counting on a lot of things to happen. A lot has happened, without people being replaced in the previous term, as has been said, by these investigative institutes, the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Anti-Monopoly Office, and all of this, in order to find out where these post office collectors are, how the property is via the mailboxes. It would still be in deep fog today. The economic crisis contributed when certain things happened to gentlemen. Now they are also nervous in your parties, and they are competing before European elections, especially in Reale, which is at the border of entry or entry, and they also want to enforce themselves by somehow leading the game. Let her lead, thank God. Next thing I knew, what would happen. Apparently, it was just before the state banks gave Delta loans to Belgrade to build a stadium and then Mr Jankovic, with his financial engineers, would turn it nicely and bring it in the way he can bring it in. You don't talk about these tycoons who are here after Ljubljana, after the City Hall, even though the court is conducting an investigation. That's when the tycoonation started. A million euros was just like a fictitious business, just like that. He never did, that company didn't even have that kind of activity. Now they're talking about someone already getting a retirement for a company that wasn't owned by Mercator and so on, amazing things. And, of course, I will also be very interested in who you will propose to be president of this commission of inquiry. I am very sorry that between us there is no longer a colleague who led the two investigative commissions, Mirk Zammernik, who really led them in a fantastic way, led to the end of the report and so on, but, unfortunately, he did not want to run for the National Assembly because he is too honest, he said, I will do something else. Of course, I hope that people will elect him to the European Parliament. He's running because that's the situation in the country, because honest people have to move on, people who won't let themselves buy. But I want to know who you're running for office. Whether you are going to run for office, or you will be one of the more independent MPs. Because, in this case, of course [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u153	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u154	I can break it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u155	Mr. Jerovšek. Please, let's stick to what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u156	Mr Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u157	Ladies and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u158	Mr Vice President, I'm protesting because that's exactly what I'm talking about. If you're part of the problem, then be quiet. Try to be part of the solution, no [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your gesture, which you have given me as chairman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u160	Look, these interventions are meant to disturb us. I have to say, even when Mercury's taken over, we know a lot of things, but he's not in here. State-owned companies had to run business with Mercury, there to buy at substantially higher prices than market prices of materials, repromaterials and even a few directors of state-owned companies participated in that property in such a way that they extracted profits and profits from state-owned companies. Approve higher transfer prices and so on. It's hard to prove, but some people know, and some things are on the table. But why don't you have Mercury in here?Oh, my God! So, your purpose is to selectively make fog. But I hope that you will get lost in this fog and that in Slovenia the conditions will be such that we can blow this fog and show where these gentlemen belong, who have brought the banks before the re-savestment, which the taxpayers will cover, and this is the issue of the country. I'm stressing again. And some will have to take responsibility for this issue of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u161	Mr. Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. With this investigation, with this request for a parliamentary inquiry, I believe that we are not yet going to remove this credit crunch. We support such an investigation in the Slovenian People's Party. Personally, however, he was much more pleased if this investigation went away or could cover all the cases of this abnormal situation and the abnormal privatisation that took place in our country. These acquisitions, in my opinion and in my opinion, have led many to a situation where banks are unable to finance the economy. The leaders of these banks have brought this matter into a crisis situation as it is. The flag was indeed taken over by the shares of the companies that were in the takeover phase. However, for banks this is only a guarantee, not that the bank will manage companies. The Bank must primarily manage loans with loans borrowed. This is what the bank lives on, and this is what the bank does, and this is how it helps. Above all, it is essential for them to have in their balance sheets the money they borrow, not that they are co-owners of companies. If you go to the bank on your own, they'll comb you very well, see what kind of financial flow you have and say, "Okay. With all these guarantees you've brought in, with all this building of your properties, we're going to grant you a loan. We will grant you credit because you are able to pay it and that is our goal. The goal is that you pay for the loan, not that we will take your house away from you one day, because we don't know what we're going to do with it." The point is, banks have money. I've already asked the Minister of Economy a question. I have to say that I was satisfied with his answer, but even more so when we met outside in the hallway, we talked when I could have shown him this problem significantly more easily than I could have shown him here in this room. And I have to say, he's responded well, he's allowed me to give his address to this entrepreneur who knows this problem well, and they're already in contact. And then, I have to say that I went this way so that we should establish an institute or somehow establish a way of lending these small entrepreneurs who are now in a jam in a way that we can get to the Moratorio of credits. These small entrepreneurs might need two years of moratoriums on credit, while everyone provides interest, and they would pay and thus enable them to work normally. It is also clear to us that banks now have to rescue these giants, because when the ship sinks, it is said that we all look at the fact that we do not sink someone in life, because when we sink them, we really have nothing to expect to get anything back from it. It is most likely that this process is also taking place here. But who's running these trials now? They are led by those who have already done this, that we are in a crisis like this today, and even then they have not worked as professionally as they are working at substantially lower levels than I have told you before. Look, when Mr. Lahovnik gave me a really nice gesture that I allowed this entrepreneur to contact me, the entrepreneur writes me or gives me a letter that she also sent to the minister and says, "First of all, a nice greeting and thanks that you gave Mr. Guid Kres a "mail" with which I can directly address you." And he says, "We are with Mr Kres, despite the fact that we are in different political options, including a friend and many times an interlocutor in the current problems of our economy." This was also followed by the question I have raised. I want to say that this is a person who is not from my political option, but who is an entrepreneur, is a Slovenian citizen, needs and needs help. And then, when it does, I'd like to show you a little bit more plastic about what things he's dealing with, and he says, if he's getting only €40,000 at this point right now, around, a loan he'd put aside for two years, he'd still be employed, four people are employed, he'd go on the ground, he'd discover new market niche, he'd save the company, he'd probably save it, if the state were able to help these small businesses too. Therefore, I appeal to all of you, honourable Members and Members of the Government, to try to find the path by which we will be able to help these small entrepreneurs immediately, because there are many of them, and here new jobs are being created significantly faster than in large systems and, of course, to preserve what is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u163	Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Many words have already been said about this initiative, which I myself have signed. I want the parliamentary investigation to have a successful conclusion with as few disruptions as possible. However, if this should happen, then I would point out only a few points which I have seen in the debate today and which I think can only hinder any investigative work in Parliament, in the National Assembly, but nothing can contribute to the usefulness of the task for which we all claim to be useful. Of course, blackmail must be rejected first. We have witnessed this in the performance of that Member, who made his attachment to this Commission of Inquiry conditional on violating the decision of the National Assembly from a good week ago, last Friday, when the composition of another Commission of Inquiry was established, to propose on the basis of a proposal by 37 Members and where an attempt was made within the framework of the committee responsible to get the proposal as soon as possible. The interpretations of the Constitution and other legal provisions have a completely selfish purpose, a completely political interest and impose on others schemes to interpret the law and how it is to understand the Constitution without the will to at least look at it thoroughly, will not benefit either those, nor this, but something bad will do. Therefore, such an occurrence should be recognised as excessive and rejected. I also reject exclusively the party identification of what needs to be investigated in this parliamentary investigation. In the parliamentary investigation, this is a matter for public authorities. It is a public function institution, at least during a period which is recognised as investigative and which will be represented in the decision as an investigation period and for no one else. He can't cut through this investigation, otherwise something else has to be started. So that's what I'm refusing, of course. It refers to people, to specific carriers, not to some wide blah that will lead nowhere. Furthermore, I reject the drawing of people who, during the period in question, were not holders of public functions and also today, because if we postpone treatment on them, then we go beyond the legislative framework of the parliamentary investigation and go somewhere else into another political game, which, at least I as a signatory, do not want to participate and reject because it is a violation of parliamentary practice, is an integral part of the irregular segment and is an empty blow. Thank you for that part for listening to me. I would also say that some of the discussions of my colleagues from the SDS, not all, have particularly warmed me. Those who have debated in the last hour, who know a great deal about individual cases, individual phenomena, say, for the purposes of this investigation very much know about individual acquisitions. Here I listened to the analysis of what was going on in banks, how it went in Mercury, where there was no transfer pricing mechanism. It has been warned that this is difficult to prove, but the transfer prices are apparently someone else in this country can calculate, but which one of us is dealing with some segments at least ever. And maybe we could do that. But, in general, this way will be before the public; if anything is reported, it may not be worth a lot of words; it makes the impression that everything is already known, but now there is a coalition that wants two, or really a big, really strong link, really cases with a lot of participants, what to look for, when all is known, when these individuals or maybe even a neighbor in the bench could prepare extensive, accurate, verifiable and sufficient reports that could help us identify both public function holders and those regulations that actually need to make their change. And finally, I also reject because I find it particularly ugly, and all of them are considered to be just one subset of interpretation of the legal rules, little [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , interpretation, indiscreet interpretations of these legal provisions, including the qualification of criminal offences. Here we hear qualifications for individual crimes without the author of any such qualifications, including the most excusable analysis and presentation of the legal signs of such a crime. There's a claim here that something is black, even if it's only gray. If someone claims I'm young, I'll be happy for myself, but I'm not very young, am I? But I would like someone to recognize that there are also exploits that lead nowhere but to manifest their own incomprehensibleness and serve only to enforce lies. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that this parliamentary inquiry, whose reasons and objectives are duly justified and the debate with them is almost inconclusive, in fact, as it is clear, is only two fundamental purposes: to determine whether it is a matter for holders of functions of political responsibility, because it can be determined by this high house, and, secondly, whether it has enabled or has not been able to prevent anything in our legal system and then to change it. This is quite enough, so I support the establishment of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u165	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! I am pleased that we also have legally qualified and broad people in the National Assembly. I welcome and am pleased to hear such discussions as had by my fellow Member, Mr Alexander Ravikar, this is simply the case. It is clear that we have not been and are not partial to the economic and legal stories of politicians, and there is no difference, regardless of which government led Slovenia. Obviously, those who had more legal knowledge, a step ahead of us who were writing laws that were not accurate enough, were succinct in order to make certain points that were highlighted at the time of the recession manageable. I support the establishment of this commission. If I listen to this debate, and if it stays in the political waters, it seems to me that we have missed our course right from the start. If we make this a first-class political argument and scandal, then there will be no progress and added value. It is certainly clear to all that there will be forces in the past and that there will certainly be a close link between the economy and politics today. That is why I think this debate that we are having today, and when we are talking about tycoon and similar loans, we have not defined the matter in detail, especially if it is a question of whether individual banking transactions will also be subjectively decided by the supervisory councils, then this in practice means that we have moved away from the normal and real practice of banking. Today several prominent Slovenian companies were mentioned in this debate. I'm going to touch one you've named three times, that's the Mountain Mercury. I want to know what the intentions are to try to criminalize a company that was owned by a management takeover two and a half years ago. You know who invested. The President, Mr Jerovšek, has a lot of evidence, data and links on what was wrong. I'm also asking him if he's already taken them to the competent institutes. I wonder if it is possible to oppose the Police Act, that the police would have fewer criminals, that they would have no leadership, perhaps even related to the fact that these stories are never investigated and never investigated. I think that every informed and honest citizen in Slovenia is still in the interest of having a professional, highly effective police force, a quality criminal service that will act in such a way as to deal with economic crime, properly punished and sanctioned. I am confident that tomorrow's police law will be confirmed by all parties, that all that is suspected, which is stated to finally be resolved. We may have forgotten that almost a thousand companies have taken over Slovenia in the last 15 years, that 80% of these companies have run the lead and that we are spitting at every turn and on average with such discussions. I think it is important for a number of companies that have been well taken over to get concrete, precise owners, but above all it seems important to me that of course all political arguments are simply around the acquisitions in which they became owners of Slovenians. I think that the Slovenians are very much missing in history, that of course we didn't have our own bad guys or our capitalists, and I think it's important, in my personal opinion, that they own Slovenian companies better than foreigners. The acquisitions made by foreign owners in Slovenia are not problematic. If I go back to the story of Mercury that some people have been having problems with today. In Mercury, about 100 key employees were taken over, bought Mercury at the correct price, in a public and transparent manner. And probably there are a lot of commentators, the only ones that have been most transparent among all the management acquisitions of Slovenia, but I still don't understand why some people are so upset today. We have not yet heard any evidence that Merkur’s story, which extends to the Balkan, eastern markets, is successful in hurting anyone in order to harm social, state or any private property. Nor does anyone mind that Mercury employs more than 800 young, highly educated professionals and that the number of jobs in Mercury has increased by 3500 in the last 15 years. And that a company such as Mercury manages to increase its market share vis-à-vis companies coming from the same sector in the same trade sector abroad. I think it could be positive or good for the Slovenes. If we pour pure wine in these stories, Slovenia will be able to be richer and more successful tomorrow, and that is only, in my opinion, an additional message with the added value of this commission of inquiry, if we, of course, cut these links between policy, economy and, above all, banks, so that banks can operate independently, freely, in accordance with the profession's belief that we will then become normal and, above all, a successful European country. And that's what I want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps I would just like to start by saying that those who advocate that it would be appropriate to extend this investigation in time and by the number of entities would remind you that we had a similar investigative commission in the previous term. We expanded it to 84, I think there were 84 entities, and you know how it ended. The result was completely null and void. That's why I support this idea of staying with these two entities and trying to find that core here or the core, because I think it's a model or a way to look like everyone else. However, since there have been a lot of speeches even by some previous ministers or one of the previous ministers regarding amendments to the takeover Act, I must say that we have amended the takeover Act four times in the previous term and it is necessary to be very precise in this matter when voting from the computer network or base is also taken, for the first time in this National Assembly on the amendment of the takeover Act 25. 4. 2006. It would be good if the former Minister of the Economy showed it. Here you have rejected the current opposition, the then ruling coalition, a bill that was very restrictive about management acquisitions. The second time we voted was 24. 6. amending, same year 2006, but that was not as important as the former Minister of Economic Affairs referred to in the vote. What's important is this 21st. 12. 2007 I would remind you that this was after that November meeting when we discussed the mistrust of the current government and when the word of the tycoons was first spoken in this Chamber by the then Prime Minister of the Government, and within a month we were changing legislation in a direction that was directed after the previous one, and two years later by the opposition. And in the end, there's 14 more. Seven. 2008 is the epilogue, when we finally said it, but now it would not be possible for future owners with management acquisitions to hold shares of target companies. As long as we're taking it, I would expect the least of those who sat in the government to be precise and clear about it. Let me briefly repeat why it is important to meet on 12 August 2005 in government premises. In April 2006, we propose an amendment to the takeover legislation which would prevent the supposed things from happening in government premises and which were rejected. Then the first change by the government coalition was in July 2006 and then in December 2007, following the meeting of the National Assembly, at which we voted on the Government's trust. Finally, we said that tycoonisation was no longer going until last year just before the elections, which is July 2008. And maybe two of those pubes, or maybe two of them, who appear here in the debate more than once. Why does the government coalition set up this commission of inquiry? I was critical myself in my previous term. However, when you talk about it, then say, 4 investigative commissions we had in the previous term and 3 you established from the government coalition and one in the previous opposition. However, you have prevented one commission of inquiry, and if this Commission of Inquiry concerning Mercators in the previous term were to be established, perhaps we would have a much easier job today when we are setting up this new commission of inquiry. Because that investigative commission led by my colleague Marinic did not produce any results. And those who talk about Jankovic and his manager's takeover, if you don't know, and I think the former Minister of Economics knows, the government stopped Jankovic from taking over Mercator. What happened after August 2004 or September after the elections, you know, you sitting in government premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. In theory and practice, there are many different opinions regarding the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation. I've had some experience with this myself. In my previous term, I was a member of a so-called prosecutor. But in a way, before that, I was even subject to some kind of investigation in the so-called, say, Friday's or the Zámernik's commission. I wouldn't be talking about Mirk Zammernik today, because it's been pretty nice talking about him today. My assessment is that the commission of inquiry is not necessarily a bad thing. Of course, the question is, what is its extraction, how successful is its work, but probably - here we can all be united - cannot harm each other. I would immediately sign the initiative for this commission of inquiry, but unfortunately we were not invited to do so. I would like to help the ruling coalition to investigate the irregularities of their economic satellites and in some way their political companions. Unfortunately, this investigator is time-consuming, I think, too limited. It begins in 2005 and beyond. I think the tycoons have their history or their prehistoric history, and it might show a little bit more history. It is interesting that New KBM is re-emerging. In 2000, I wrote myself about the suspicion of money laundering in New KBM, its exhibition in Koroška. And if criminals and prosecutors then had the will to investigate the suspicion of money laundering in New KBM, a state bank, a state-funded bank, perhaps even no such commission of inquiry would have to be established. And of course, the people who were in a high position in the New KBM in 2000 even made progress at that time. Interestingly, at the time, no one was punished for this suspicion of money laundering, as the internal audit concluded. No one was responsible for this, which is a clear message that no one in this country can do anything to ensure that they have a certain immunity. The second case is the Ljubljana Bank, or the case of LHB Frankfurt. See, in 2005, the Kosovo Commission issued a principled opinion that there is a suspicion that the Carinthian company Eurocity was laundering money through a credit arrangement of EUR 30 000 million in this financial institution in Frankfurt. What happened? Nothing. At the time, today's development minister was at the head of the Bank of Slovenia. This information can be found on the website of the Anti-Corruption Office. Of course, in these cases it is an interesting triangle, on the one hand we have a state bank, on the other hand a so-called tycoon and on the third page a policy. This famous photograph, this raised tycoon finger to today's Prime Minister, tells his story. This raised finger is visible enough, so that means you're gonna do what I told you to do, and that's all. And of course that's worrying. Mrs. Potrata, you were right in front of me, so you gave up. President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u171	Of course, Mr. Friday, because we didn't want to interrupt anything. But I'll keep an eye on the order in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Neighbouring Italy has some mafia issues. The Mafia is kind of a state in the country. And I can't get rid of the feeling that even tycoons are in some way a state in the country, have their botteries, their supporters, and it's hard to fight with. However, I certainly wish the Investigator great luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In fact, it is difficult to add something essential to what Mr Vizjak said, but let me draw attention to a few things. Even in our previous ministry, I know that we have talked many times about this subject or subject. It was certainly the most often question of how to cut into these things, how to really prevent some of the things that had happened, but we have always stopped at the two institutions that had people at their head, I am speaking, of course, of the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities, which were headed by so-called untouchable people, gods. Those gods were set up by you or set up by the previous government, in a way written in the law, that in any way practically prevented the intervention of the new government, the Janshem government, to them and to them, so that, simply, nothing else, they could work and go to work and do for the benefit of this country. It wasn't until the moment those people left or their mandate expired that they started moving and it wasn't until then that things started to unfold. That's a fact. Of course, at the same time, I wonder why there was a time limit for two entities and for a time period, just as you were asking yourself in the previous commission of inquiry, and there I thought the answer was very logical. We set up a period in which the figures were deleted and two figures were found, but we did not cover the periods of the Yash government. Why? Because we have not issued a single decision or a single so-called deleted one, but we have brought to Parliament a constitutional law that you have smoothly rejected. So there is nothing to investigate during the period when nothing happened. Of course, it is to ask yourself why you limit yourself to what you limit yourself to. But a man would put on another thesis than what my colleagues before me, a man would even say that you might have overstepped the opposition because you're afraid there's something wrong. Maybe that's the reason? After all, who gave these credits and who accepted these loans? Only people, I'll say, with political membership cards or their sympathizers, but only on this side, especially against me and in the first kind here in the middle. So there is no reason for anyone on our side to be afraid of this commission of inquiry, and there is no reason, on the contrary, that I am even saying that we should set it up, because in the end you will now investigate yourself. I mean your political companions, your ex-boyfriends, your current friends or whatever. A typical specimen of what this commission is going to do, but we saw it five minutes ago. Do you know what she's gonna do? It will sell the fog that all media will collect so that you in this House can do what you want and what you have been doing for several months. Someone in front of me said, "Of course I'm glad the police law will come tomorrow." Did you see any fog? Of course they will report on the work of a commission, let's say that it will be Posedel's, I don't know whose will be the leader, I don't know, I don't know, I'm sorry, I didn't have a bad purpose, whose purpose it will be, will be named after someone and will be the headlines of newspapers full of what's been discovered now, and in the meantime you'll be pushing three laws "al" of tomorrow's police officer, which one of the MPs is very happy to come tomorrow. Of course, it does not say that this same law will for the first time in Slovenia alone bring politics to the top of the police, which socialism left behind in 1988. He doesn't say that. For the first time, he was talking about a small number of cops and criminals, I apologize to the president, but he was talking, so I have to explain. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u175	This is not the subject of this decision, but we all speak in general, the debate is general. Whatever you're saying, I'll limit it if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u176	Yeah, look, he was talking about it, and I expect you to let me explain this kind of thing to him. [[...]] There will also be things like notaries, and there will be some sort of lawyers, to cover it up, so that on the front pages of the media the work of this investigative commission, which ultimately, given that it is looking for people around itself, will find nothing. See, that's what this thing is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When I listen to a wide variety of views on the establishment of an investigative commission, I can really attract everyone to talk about everything. And in doing so, some want to convince us that we all feel the same way. Someone said, you all know that's not true. And he went on, no, I don't know it's not true, Mr. Blackach, what do you know, I don't know. And I don't know in advance what the investigative commission will find out. However, I know that, in the previous term, the opposition wanted to set up an investigative commission on the acquisition or sale of Mercator, that the then coalition had been very quick to set up its investigative commission and had examined the stakes of four hundred and forty different companies and finally found out what it had found. Sometimes it's been said that she's got [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Here's some change. [[...]] Of course, I would be more reassured if in the past the Commissions of Inquiry had actually found what they were set up to do. However, since it is the most common case for politically motivated judgments, when some people know what they will get in the future, even in a few shows it was possible to hear that the Commission will sell fog and I do not know what else, then one really wonders what the National Assembly has to do with investigative commissions when it does not find out what they were set up to do. When he tries, this is my experience from the previous term, some commissions that do not have the character of investigative commissions turn into such investigative committees. This is what we confirm, however, that we know poorly and that we are making worse use of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because after he either says he'll have a procedural proposal or something, he says what he said, although the chairman can say as a voice in the desert that it wasn't a procedural proposal, but things are moving on. If I loved him, I'd go over the number of times a procedural proposal for something completely different has been misused. We've been listening to everything today. You know, it goes beyond being a decent person to use the debate in the National Assembly for a free campaign. And that's what happens more than once. Well, today some have gone to such extremes that even names have been sold here as the best candidates. But after all, I cannot say that anything else that happens, either in extraordinary sessions or in regular sessions, would have any other purpose. The fact is, we look at things differently, and it is not possible to expect that only by reading magnetograms and simply by quoting from magnetograms will we approach positions. If someone who does not have a majority in Parliament forbids others to interpret the words of the speaker, it is only arrogant. But if others are still unable to accept that they no longer have the power to make decisions, that is another problem. Mr President, thank you for not interrupting me, but the fact is, it's been abused. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u179	You can do it, mag. The abortion, the interruption, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u180	The fact is that the sequence of time has been misused. And, Mr. Friday, it's a shame, you've been a journalist, and you know what can be published in the media, that the finger you're talking about is ascribed to the President of the Government. No, Borut Pahor was not the Prime Minister of the government at the time. And even today, it has been pointed out that you are abusing and misinterpreting certain things related to the Minister of Development. But you're just going along with the principle that so many times repeated lies will just eventually become the truth. Well, I would like us not to be successful on this path, while the investigative committee wants to achieve the objective for which it will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u182	Mrs. Potrata said, "I don't know what's not true, Mr. Chernač." Dear Mrs. Potrat, I don't know why I should be involved in your ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I also welcome or support the establishment of this commission of inquiry, but I am already on the title in the dilemma - the address is almost halfway across and it is, perhaps because of the spatial embarrassment that a whole lot of companies who would have been put on trial there, thus also belong to the investigation, the Insurance Company Triglav, Perutina Ptuj, SCT, BTC, ACH, Viator&Vektor, Mercury, Luka Koper, General Navigation and so on. There's an NKBM and a New Ljubljana Bank all over the place. The problem with these so-called tycoon buyouts of companies is that, somewhere I've been tracking data, there's more than 20 billion euros invested in this. And the question is whether people, employees, the state of Slovenia, local communities, have been given what they expected for this money, i.e. able leadership, which will lead the company as a good host and upgrade production, services, activities, not only local, but also wider entry into the European Economic Area. It was said that the coalition had rushed the opposition. I can see here that there may be some causes. If you propose such a commission, you can also somehow shape the conditions under which it will work. And here is the intention that it will probably be, we can assume that this investigator will dictate the pace, as it will show, now it is very pleasant to hear, for the European elections, to establish something, people think, but now something will move, the crisis is, it is time to solve something. Another possible aspect is that it will be dealt with selectively. Maybe some tycoon's totally screwed up, and it's just gonna do what the market would have done to him. Today we read that even the principal bank agrees with the bankruptcy of Istrabenz. I myself have read some analysis in Finance and I fully agree with it that for employees the bankruptcy of Istrabenz will not be a disaster at all. There'll be another buyer and they'll move on. It may be shocking only if there is a break before they organize themselves and before the financial flows run out. But he will be destined for some 20, 30 highest positions within the hierarchy of the factory. And then all you have to do is say hello. The new smart owner is going to do what we should have done a long time ago. The ones who crashed the company will be sent out of the company. And that won't be too much damage. The investigator can, as the smoke screen has already been said today, when we shout the loudest, scream, receive a thief, and perhaps we are alone by the elbows with our hands on the forbidden fruit. Perhaps it would point to the interruptions within the coalition around this, around the guarantees. By the way, the adoption of the guarantee scheme law is about three months behind schedule. And although it is late, it is still not agreed by the European Commission, which suggests a certain suspicion that this guarantee scheme is not completed, that there may be errors in it, and above all there is a very questionable rating of A, B, C, or the area where guarantees for Taiwanese credits are provided. Today, more meetings have been mentioned than the world has turned around. However, it points out that Mercator is surprisingly good at doing business with a new administration, with an old one always in some trouble, and with a new one all of a sudden, look at him stun, miraculously under very difficult conditions, his competition has multiplied a little, not bad. Such a meeting was also held on the Hell Islands near Hvar, perhaps the location was chosen on purpose, because the Hell Islands- "hell plans". There was the same protagonist as was mentioned today, someone who sells 25% Mercator in the pastry shop and again. And suddenly, national interests are forgotten. It's a national interest for me to do business well. And it turned out, at least in those where I worked, if it was mixed property, that she was operating transparently and successfully. And besides the companies listed, there may be other types of typos like a gravedigger when they come to shut down the company and sell the remains. We have this case right now in LTH, maybe it's MIP, and so on. And right in our scoping area, we've met a lot of paramedics, a typo-type gravedigger. They all disappeared and died in very strange circumstances. Alplesa's sanatorium was drowned in Sava, Jelovica's sanatorium burned somewhere on the coast. The current team that is rehabilitating LTH - inside we have jokers who publish obituaries for the living mayors of Tržič, that is to say for our former colleague Paul Rupar and so on. And it would really suggest re-examine what it is a national interest or within this commission of inquiry to upgrade the work of this commission of inquiry with some concrete criminal complaint, that there may also be concrete consequences, that a so-called tycoon may also be called, "thank you for your cooperation, you were more for the damage than the benefit." We've seen that just tycoons, at least what we can say, do business with some weird economy. They're running out of company, and that's why it takes every so many years to get rehabilitated. And these companies that should be our parade horses when they're doing business and they're like a chicken carrying golden eggs. So I expect a lot from the commission, but on the other hand, I'm very afraid that I'll be disappointed with it, just as I've been over a lot before. But I support her establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. What an interest, and how deeply the interest of the government coalition in establishing this commission of inquiry, also shows that the Government has no position today. It would normally be, as with all other items of the agenda, for the Government to also define itself on the initiative of Members to announce its time to discuss and present its position. That's not what today is. We had a meeting Friday, when we also referred to the topic of economic measures. There we received 150 pages of material, materials, today there is no one at this important point when a commission of inquiry is ordered to discuss the purpose of this commission of inquiry. The second point to be found is also that there was a relatively weak interest in the largest government party in establishing this commission of inquiry, since only 11 members of the largest coalition party signed under a request for parliamentary inquiry, only 11 out of 29. Among them are the signatures of some people who are always here in the National Assembly, which also shows the relationship of the ruling party, the largest party, to the depth of this investigation. Participation in the debate today is extremely weak in the coalition. Look, five Members, half less than on our side. Interesting. One of the key arguments is that tycoon buy-in processes, recapitalisation processes and ownership processes are examined, and that there is such a weak interest among the signatories. This merely shows that the intentions of the applicants were not, in fact, what some of them say. I hear there's only three of the signatories here since the '30s. The purpose of this Commission of Inquiry is primarily to cover the procedures that will take place or are to be completed in this mandate. I would like to remind you that the actual purposes of those who have signed most of them under a request for parliamentary inquiry are different. It is not intended to establish the capitalisation of ownership shares in these two companies. The problem is that in some ways it is to cover what the Government proposes with two laws coming into the legislative process: the guarantee scheme law and the public finance law. Both laws have the same basic provision. However, regardless of whether or not it is possible to determine and add funds for these assets, Taiwanese credits and state guarantees. That's what you wrote in the text of the law. I believe that the conduct we are witnessing in the National Assembly has taken place in this mandate and with the request for this commission of inquiry to the summit. On the one hand, an exception is proposed, and these are key points in both of these laws proposed by the Government to allow the revolving of tycoon credits and, on the other hand, in order to determine what has happened in these areas. This is a basic matter. In fact, none of those who debated said that the supervisory councils appointed by the previous governments and also the number of memberships in the supervisory councils were practically in five societies and five daughters that these supervisory councils were shaped by a system of clusters. And there these grapes were covered by the decisions of the subsidiaries and by the decisions of all the roof companies. In these control councils, there were always the same people. Very few people have participated in these oversight councils. All processes have gone in some direction. I think all these concentrations that have happened, these two are exposed, they have a much longer beard. This cannot be done with one decision in a given term. This has been the case since 1992 for a series of decisions and procedures that have led to these concentrations. And interestingly, in the bodies of these institutions, such as the Slovenian Development Society, Kad, the Court of Justice, the restructuring agencies, if you look at who were members of the assemblies and bodies, you will practically run into some names. One of these eminent names that led these procedures is mag. Anton Rop, who later served as the Minister of Labour, who was the State Secretary for Privatisation, participated in the Council of the Restructuring Agency, and was the head of Kad, who participated in the bodies that dealt with these matters. In the end, even as Minister of Labour and also for finance, he watched over these transformations. You probably need to look at these things a little bit deeper, a little further back and figure out when all these things were happening. It is also probably very unusual that anonymous companies, such as Colonel, who had a fictitious owner, received such large state loans that they could then, through such postal collectors, make a change of ownership structure in important companies. In fact, this fictitious company was not the only one in these proceedings. All those projects that were had such a ownership process. I am very interested in why, say, this Commission of Inquiry would not have intervened in this area in order to also deal with these fictitious economic operators and to find out what was going on. How can it be that, for example, such an economic company has received loans virtually without guarantees because it has nothing to guarantee. While some serious economic society cannot get that today and we are talking about a credit crunch. That's interesting. Other companies, I don't know, I think Maksima, and some other society in Gorenjska, and elsewhere, was actually in the same role. Without capital, with some change created, and then received millions in euros for the purchases of shares of companies and thus for the change of the ownership structure. Interesting, but this investigation committee doesn't have this ambition. It is not surprising, therefore, that even among the signatories, we hear requests for parliamentary investigation that it should be extended and that this act of parliamentary investigation should be extended. Today, they have debated here, and they want the matter to expand to other companies and to move a little bit into the past. Interestingly, this investigative committee is actually proposed by a party named Zares, who has a party in charge of someone who was the main staff of a number of governments. Mr Golobič has been recruiting many people, and we have heard this many times in this Chamber. And today, in fact, the political group led by Mr Golobič is the one that demands responsibility for political moves in these transformations. On the other hand, this group also has an economic minister, who was not here today, who could say a lot about how these processes were carried out, who is also the author of a pilot project of property transformation or some BTC company, who is also a doctor of acquisitions, doctor of acquisitions, and could tell us a lot of things in communication with Members how these things were set up and how they were done. It probably wouldn't hurt anyone. As for negotiation, we have heard a lot about various discussions with the former Prime Minister of the Government, but it is interesting that no one talks about the meeting in Illyria or there in Celovska. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] where the former Prime Minister, Mr Rob and Mr Pahor came in through the side door. [[...]] There were some tribal meetings of the great Slovenian managers, and later it grew into Forum 21. And in fact all this flower of Slovenian managers is included in this institution, which was established a few years ago. It's interesting that there's no one in the union who doesn't have enough capital. Only those who have enough capital are there. On the other hand, we have now witnessed in the media several times the information that the former President of the Republic is also meeting with some people who have taken over Slovenian companies. One of these was also recorded in the Finances on 3 August "Dog Chat with Shroth on Hvar", and a few days ago there was information that Kučan met with a potential Mercator buyer here in Ljubljana. Apparently, they only went to a cake or tiramisu, and they didn't talk about any other stuff. All these processes, which took place in Slovenia, certainly have a political background. The deployment of these people was also political. There are also tone and sound records on this. It would probably make sense, therefore, that this parliamentary commission of inquiry should also be extended for a longer period, to a matter that has happened before, perhaps there since 1992, and also to some other major economic systems that have thus transformed. Many, including the illegal printing of small shareholders, may still be seeking justice through the prosecutions. I must say that I myself support the establishment of this commission of inquiry. We will also actively participate in our Group of Members. You probably don't doubt that. It is interesting, however, that none of the applicants came to our parliamentary group and asked us if they would like to join this investigation. Then perhaps it would be a problem who will lead this committee. Earlier, he had told us that we had set up an investigative commission in the previous term, but this was created solely because the opposition, despite the repeated call, did not want to establish a public call. Since the Commission has abused itself to control the budget and other public finances. On several occasions, this committee has been proposed by the coalition, not to abuse the Commission for budgetary control, but to set up an investigative commission. And since those who abused this commission and even the opposition of the day refused to do so, we prepared this matter months and a half after we took the initiative. And it is also incorrect to now state that this commission of inquiry was also set up at the initiative of the then coalition. The opposition didn't want that. And only three weeks after we proposed the establishment of an investigative commission, the opposition came up with an initiative to set up an investigative commission. And at the time, we were very benevolent, although there was no need for this, and although Mercator's investigation was already under way in this commission of our commission of inquiry, we also corrected it so that it was established early enough. And this commission of inquiry has completed its work and has also reached certain conclusions. You can read them, you can look at them, so we don't just talk like that. Supervisory institutions have also played a very important role in these property transformation processes. In particular, the Securities Market Agency has not done its job. With so much media information, and even with so many events, it would be impossible to establish fictitious companies that the Securities Market Agency would not detect the problem of fictitious companies and the problem of illicit concentrations, as well as later related activities between companies. The Office for the Protection of Competition did not carry out its tasks until 2007, and many stories were also happening. And where there was no control or maybe it was going on in another way, perhaps even in agreement, it was somehow possible that these processes were going on and on as they were going on and as they happened. It was only because the regulators of the financial market and the competition regulator had not done their job that it was possible to carry out these concentration processes. Only when changes were made in the field of legislation and, above all, a change in staff at the head of both offices had these matters begun to be cleaned up. And in a very short period of time, it was very quickly discovered that these mailboxes, so-called, names and surnames, which were not those written there, were very well-known persons who had very good political connections, some of whom also served a very well-known beer, with a famous name and so on. And also meetings that took place, including social gatherings. All of this was practical in this context of ownership projects and transformations. And today, due to the collapse of the share market, the coalition brings two laws into the legislative process, bringing the government two laws into a legislative procedure that does not solve the credit crunch of companies in the Republic of Slovenia, but five or six of those who belong in the so-called tycoon package. It doesn't save those who have programs that have projects that have orders. We do not allow them to receive their VAT in a timely manner, they cannot get credits for current business, but in laws we make exceptions that allow the Taiwanese managers to receive an extraordinary renewal of credits, with a state guarantee, as if these people were national interests. Why must taxpayers or the state budget guarantee the renewal of these loans? What's the important reason? If the owner of this property package does not have the property to cover the loans in a particular company, then leave it to someone else. If Shrot can't cover it, let Andrian cover it. If this guy can't make it, there's gonna be a third. This is why nothing will happen in Slovenia in this area. Nothing. That's why both breweries can move on. I don't know why we need a state guarantee to solve these projects. Mr Posedel, who was first signed under this request for the allocation of a parliamentary inquiry, would probably be able to explain this. I guess I could explain, and I hope that at this time, half an hour, which he still has at his disposal, he will. Why do we need State guarantee and special law for these people, but for all the others dealing with real problems and could do much to boost economic growth, reduce the fall of unemployment and so on, and we can't even ensure regular work? Why, though, should we not adopt any special law for you and make an exception? That an economic company that has 700 employees and orders for three or four months in advance cannot obtain a favourable loan with a State guarantee and that these people can get it for reprogramming their loans for managers' buyouts. What makes these people better than the others? Just because they have beer tycoon on beer and flowers and because there were some MPs from the coalition who aren't here today, and some of the current ministers who aren't here today? Just for that? I think that important steps should be taken in this area. To allow, the Blue Coalition would do so in order to extend the investigation to other companies and allow the investigation to go further into the past. That is, where, through Kad, Soda, SRD and the Restructuring Agency, these processes were actually set up, and when the current policy makers also stopped and led them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer, Lois Posedel?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of all the signatories of this parliamentary inquiry request, I can say that, after all these strong debates, I am pleased to say that we have decided on this request. None of the discussers objected to this initiative, this request. All the debaters welcomed this decision, this initiative, and everyone also promised to participate, from all political parties, of all parliamentary groups, and that they wanted the best possible work. I am sorry that Comrade Tanko did not stay in the Chamber to answer the specific question why credits are not provided for businesses and why the reprograms are approved. I would answer him very simply if the address book was wrong. All the measures taken by the Government are the responsibility of the Government. We are Members, and it is right that we do what we believe is right in our work. Probably not in the past mandate period because the government and Members of the ruling coalition functioned as one; now it is different. I am sure that this will also prove to be true in our further work. I would also like, on behalf of the applicants, to reject the allegations that Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have not been included on purpose. It's not like that. It's never hard to admit a mistake and today I admit that I'm sorry that I didn't offer you a signature as well, but it would be even better if there were more signatories and also with your customers. But mistakes can't be fixed in the back, so I'm sure you'll really work together well. This is not our investigator, it is, as Mr Cernač said, with which I do not agree with many and many times, but in this part I very much agree that this is our joint parliamentary commission of inquiry, in which representatives of all parliamentary groups will be represented, and that the names of those who will be included in the investigation and probably also in the conclusions will not be written under the heading of ours and yours, that we will not talk about our heads and your heads, about our presidents and your presidents, but that we will try to identify those who are politically responsible in this parliamentary inquiry who, as public officials, are responsible that certain matters have taken place, certainly not since 2005, that matters have occurred before, that, even in the creation of the parliamentary inquiry itself, it is also stated in the request that if the investigation itself comes to the need to expand or to the case, and above all, that the companies involved will also be involved. This is even very explicitly stated that it is the financing and granting of loans to members of the management bodies of those companies and associated legal and natural persons, in the rounding of so-called'slam companies', financial holding companies and so on. It is said that this investigation is not closed, not only on two economic operators, but as a school case or the most well-known case it is right to conduct an investigation in this way. It's a shame to lose words about the smoke screen of the coalition. The work of this parliamentary inquiry, at least I assess and the signatories, is strictly separate from that of the Government. The government's responsibility to prepare laws to send them into procedure is one story and the work of parliamentarians is another. And at the same time, I don't think it's necessary for every case to be looking for a conspiracy. My colleague, Chernač, wonders who's behind this whole thing, who's running it. And I can also answer Mr Jerovšk, although unfortunately he is not here, who will be the chairman of this commission, who will be the one who will be on the rope and then will act and take the steps that someone in the background wants. In order for him to sleep more quietly, I don't think there's gonna be much pressure to lead this investigator, and I'm probably going to have to lead it myself as the first signed one. At the same time, I can say that I am not on any string, I am dependent on no one, and that if I am appointed, I will do this work properly, not by sharing our-yours, and especially not for daily political purposes. Also in the presentation and in the text of the investigation today, none of us have appointed and associated these topics with individuals running in the European elections, was doing free advertising from parliamentary benches, which is probably at least strange if not the other, but we will cooperate in a way that shows how our banking system worked, how they carried out their mission and role as supervisors, especially in the part concerning banks in majority state ownership. The share of these loans is also the largest in these banks, with very few credits in commercial banks. In the event of a merger between these credit institutions, this review or investigation may extend to others. In this I see no shame in extending the list in the procedure itself in the parliamentary investigation process. To suggest the powerlessness of the coalition, there are debates that do not have any, but really have nothing to do with the basic idea of ensuring and establishing a parliamentary inquiry. In my initial explanation, I explained why I led this action as my first-signed leader. As mayor, I face many cases, many of the pressures of individuals who are unable to repay loans for housing, for land, for farms and do not receive such a relationship with banks, to talk about reprograms at all and to sell them their assets. It's the same with directors, and you've listed them, smaller, medium-sized enterprises that don't get money for the reprogram. In the evening on the Journal, the news to restore is reprogramming 130 million dollars for the takeover loan. This is the basic reason, and this is the conversation of all those who have signed this requirement, to determine whether in the past this has been the case of abuse of political power in these actions, whether it has also been the abandonment of certain functions or responsibilities of supervisors and those who prepare and have been responsible for the preparation of the relevant legislation. So this separation, which is supposed to be put in banks between expertise and politics, has been called many times today, that these pressures are obviously very strong. Last but not least, it is interesting that some of the debaters from the Slovenian Democratic Party have given practical details on how things are going. Some even listed names that performed certain transactions. I think that this is completely unfair and even unfair to all those involved in this investigation. However, there is also a need to prepare a programme for those who will be interviewed, those who will give their opinions, their answers, and then discuss matters. But not today, virtually by some representatives, will they come to conclusions as to what this commission will find out or what it will not find out. As the first to sign, I believe in the well-intention and correctness of all those who have signed this request. I am pleased that this act is also on the agenda today and that we will set up this parliamentary inquiry. I want everyone who participates in it to do their job properly to investigate things, not to get involved with a bunch of individual cases or with a long period of time. I hope we can do our job successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I don't know, maybe this should be interpreted as a sign. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking you to sign up. Bogdan Chapich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. My decision to sign [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u191	I'm just gonna hang up. Everyone has five minutes to discuss. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u192	My decision to sign under the request to approve a parliamentary inquiry is primarily to encourage a debate and an investigation into the disputed lending of managers' buy-ins and therefore we have a number of reasons. Today we have heard some things, so I would really focus only on the two investigations that were mentioned in this document, because I see that the opposition has good enough information about all the other managers' ransoms, about irregularities, have information where, who and how they meet, knows what they are doing, based on one picture in the daily press, they even know what someone has told them, how they have threatened them. In the short run, all we can expect is some applications, some complaints, what that's gonna look like. The debate and the accusation of contested management buy-backs began in the previous term, greatly encouraged by the preparations and the pre-election and electoral activities themselves for the parliamentary elections in 2008. The debate started already in 2007 and even more intensely in the electoral year itself. But all the debates that revolved around this darkness did not come to an end. We see that there is still some material left, and the feeling is that some people have just been able to blame who is responsible for this situation and the lending of banks. Some, however, forget to say who led the supervisory councils in the two largest Slovenian banks, both at the New Credit Bank Maribor and at the New Ljubljana Bank, where Mr. Blajc and Mr. Marinšek, prominent members of the Social Democratic Party, were sitting at the head of these supervisory councils. I'm sure they have a lot of data, you know, who and how these so-called tycoon loans were also granted. Now that the economic and financial and social crisis is coming to an end in its entirety, the subject of tycoons and tycoon loans is extremely welcome. It is clear that the current Government and the ruling coalition do not want to resolve this problem, as it is supposed to have close economic and political ties with the tycoons. At the same time, it is forgotten when the so-called tycoons and tycoon takeovers actually took place and who was sitting on the supervisory boards of the banks at that time and sitting still today. I allow the possibility that the Supervisory Councils are not fully informed and that, at the time of the adoption of annual plans and annual business reports, such activities have also been supported by banks. This is a problem for the members of the supervisory boards, because I am sure that when they shared profits on the basis of a good business outcome, which was also based on such tycoon credits, they were happy to share profits both for themselves and for the administration, they were probably all satisfied in the end. Today, to report that we are going to reprogram Taiwanese loans with a state guarantee scheme is nonsense. Simply because we forget that the value of this guarantee scheme is EUR 200 million, that the law accurately determines the purpose of these funds and also the amount of funds that can be used for anything, it is known that 20% is available for the reprogramming of credits, that is 240 million, but we all know, and at least some of the data indicates that the bank's so-called tycoon credits exceed the 10-fold of this guarantee scheme. It is not so feared that this part of the guarantee scheme could also be used, but this is the debate that we will have tomorrow when we consider the guarantee scheme law. I also think it is now the right time to establish, on the basis of a political parliamentary inquiry, the possible political and later criminal responsibility of individual public function holders for their possible involvement, regardless of the political or other interest. I'm not connected to anyone, I can say calmly, I don't have any credits, and I'd be very happy to find out who approved, who was the one who was doing these things. It will be extremely important, however, to find out who those managers and the associated members of the boards are. It will also be necessary to amend legislation in order to prepare, on the basis of a basic analysis and a parliamentary inquiry, legal solutions that will prevent and try to correct irregularities in the future if possible. The investigation should also answer the question of what a tycoon loan is. We're all talking about it today, but we don't know what it is. This needs to be clarified so much more because the notion of tycoon credit in other areas also makes it impossible for us to have a reasonable discussion on how to help the economy in these difficult times of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I would also be delighted if the results of the investigation could be such that something goes back, for example, if someone could return some million euros. Otherwise, I feel like the weather is telling us what we're doing. We are therefore establishing a commission, which we all support, no one has a problem supporting this commission; our introductory mags. That's what the Visac said. But I repeat what I have said in a way, the truth is completely different. The truth is that we will be able to hang the results of this commission’s work on a large bell, push them from left to right, from articles to television contributions, and so on. The result will not be, as has been the case with many commissions so far, but despite the fact that we will cooperate intensively because it cannot be. But it can't be that I won't use an ugly expression, if you're investigating yourself, then it's only logical that you won't find anything. So the whole point is somewhere else. The point is, at a time when TV reports, radio reports, newspaper articles on the front pages, full of interviews, I don't know, Igor Bavčar, Boška Šrota and so on, which will be a big attraction for journalists at that time. What is more, we have already heard a great deal, we have adopted laws, we have adopted regulations with which, not with our own voice, we will serve the individual lobby you wish to meet from day to day. That's your plan, and I totally believe it will. Last but not least, there are two evidences for this: the debate of one of today's Members, specifically Mr Saiovic, and of course what is envisaged in the coming days - we are calling against the Taiwanese reprogramming of credits, at the same time making amendments that allow this. So we're not doing anything else than selling fog, and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. I am also not entirely sure that the applicants or the first-signed proposer carry with this initiative or with this requirement as noble a purpose as he speaks. I am prevented from doing so by a number of circumstances related to this requirement. Today, he acknowledged that it was a mistake not to cooperate or to invite Members of the largest opposition party there. That wasn't a mistake. That was intentional, and that's what he said. He himself said when he made a request about how to look at my name among the signatories, but if I am a potential investigator on this committee. I don't have a problem with that. But that's a testimony to duality. On the one hand, the recognition of error, on the other hand, we all know, knowingly that the proponents wanted to hurry and speed up the opposition. What an interest it is for the opposition to get to the bottom of these things. That's why I don't believe in these noble purposes. According to my assessment, this haste is also deliberately intended to shape the course of the investigation away from the holders of public authority and not to them. Individuals, especially those from another political camp, will be discredited and may make decisions to cover decisions or mistakes from the past. This is not a coincidence that this Commission of Inquiry has been set up. And it's no coincidence that it was created by these very cases. Because these are ecclesiastical cases, which need to be formally covered, because the supervisory institutions, instead of pushing them to work, are not really involved. On the contrary. When politics interferes, I too can claim with all responsibility that, as a member of the previous government, no one has ever met me or asked me what it would have to do with the decision of the President of the NLB administration when he gave credit to Infond. More. The President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank did not even ask the Supervisory Board about this, because he had such powers that he could decide or decide on the basis of the position of the Credit Committee until a certain balance sheet amount. This has also happened specifically in the case of a re-programme of the Infond holding company. Even then, the Supervisory Board was not even asked for an opinion, only to participate in this opinion. And based on the credit board's point of view, all members of the board have confirmed this programme. I want to say that there is a great question as to whether the interest and purpose is what it is written down or, earlier, I am offered a purely political, personal assessment that this is not the case. However, I will be very positively surprised, honourable speakers, that we will go together to this open front when the work of this Commission begins. One more thought, I find it difficult to imagine such an effective active work of a Member, he has already called for a president in half or three quarters, who is also the mayor. That's because there's a lot of important functions in one person. And if you want to do it well, you have, what would you say, a little trouble with yourself - for time. We all have 24 hours. Physical restrictions on an individual are given to everyone. Anyway, let's be positive at first. I hope that you will not have any problems involving representatives of the opposition in these things, such as, perhaps, what they also know in other cases. By the way, the case of the Slovenian National Publications is very interesting how in the past they sold shares to individuals and connected persons. Mr Lenič shares in Soda, for example, that the individuals who have now taken over Terme Catež, for example, are the owners of Terme Catež. 80% of investments prior to the infamous Mercator were sold directly [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] without an invitation to tender or an invitation or anything, with beautiful eyes. I want a good job with this investigator. However, it began poorly by excluding the biggest opposition party [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! When I listened to the future self-indulgent president of this commission, how honest this committee is going to be, I got all wet eyes. You rarely experience this, but good. We have heard today how good it would be to adopt legislation and such effective measures as to be able to take action back. Dear colleagues! Those who think that you will be able to adopt legislation that will apply back then you do not know the legal order, so don't bother. If that were the case, then it would probably also be that we should be returning money or something like that at a swimming pool in Slovenia. That's why it's irrelevant. But if we take a good look at the list of signatories, we can see that this was done quickly. Someone was in a hurry. The fact that only a good third of Members of the largest parliamentary group have been signed says something. Ihta was really big. Someone was really in a hurry. And apparently such an investigative commission suits someone exactly. It's not so much an investigation, it's something else that's going to be in the back, which we could have heard. It'll be like that: dogs bark and caravans have to go their own way. And this caravan raises the dust so that what's around the caravan can't be seen because it can't be seen, and obviously it suits someone. That is precisely how the media will report this commission on the front page and it will be very interesting if there is no other way in which the president of this commission raised his finger or first bent the second article or first article of one finger. In doing so, it will be more important to go beyond the law on the police, with which we introduce the so-called police state, which you have already discussed a lot in the previous mandate, but of course this has not happened; to go beyond the legislation that will explicitly allow the so-called tycoon credits, which you have submitted, but will, of course, be covered up, but will be in the first reports, shock reports, how the president leads, how he blinks his finger and so on, because there will be no other. And this caravan will bring or take, or cover, the vineyards, which will tease the Slovenes twice, and, of course, make it easier for foreigners, since apparently the Government is concerned that foreigners will have favourable conditions. That we have the most expensive petrol, that's what this caravan will cover, not the commission that will be appointed. However, this commission will also be a very good tool for discrediting political opponents, as we had in the previous term the so-called Squill Commission, which took care of the discreditation. This one was really successful. In addition, it is likely that Mercator will be sold in the Zvezda, in a restaurant in Ljubljana, and, interestingly, the signatories of this commission are the ones you read to them and say that in the previous term they should agree on the sale with the President of the Government. Now it sounds like Mercator's selling at the inn. Is it better to sell Mercator at the inn or with the President of the government if it's really one and the other? But it's both about the same level of truth. That's why I'm saying this - because if you can talk about where it's sold, then we can assume that Mercator is now selling at the inn. What's better is, of course, another question. The caravan is also heading in the direction of concealing that there are 200 to 300 unemployed more every day, and there is no guarantee that these people who will be on the road will ever get a job again, and you are making state guarantees for Taiwanese loans. The caravan is also in terms of higher legal tariffs. This caravan is also heading in the direction of preparing the basis for the deletion of several billion euros. In doing so, it must be said that this caravan is likely to cover that there are not €5 million for old-age farmers' pensions. And these are only 2,000. And, of course, the caravan will also cover up the work of parents who have pupils to pay half their diet. This, of course, will be covered up by this commission because it will be a breaking news. I have no resistance to this commission. I support her. You'd probably even sign it if someone asked me. But I would be very happy if I could see about what I said today that I was wrong, that I saw fears, that I saw something else, that I didn't have to do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And I'd be happy to admit that I was wrong. [[...]] That this commission would really do what the future president said when my eyes got wet. And with clear eyes, I will confess that I am [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-25-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly shall not vote on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry. Therefore, I note that the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion that they were involved in financing the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, the holding company, d.d. and Pivovarna Laško d.d. by banks or credit institutions held in principal by the State [[credit institutions within the NLB Group and NKBM d.d.]] , by abuse of their political impact on the granting of loans to members of the management bodies of those companies and associated legal and natural persons [[so-called "slamant" companies, financial holding companies, etc.]] to buy back the majority or the majority share of the company they run or manage, and to identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to allegedly inadequate or inadequate acquisition legislation allowing for the above-mentioned contested management acquisitions. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to clarify and clarify all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, Holding Company d.d. and Pivovarna Laško d.d. by banks or credit institutions which are or continue to operate in the supervisory authorities of a Member State, to determine why the representatives of the Government or the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner of those banks or credit institutions, have committed or have allowed lending activities to finance the above-mentioned management functions and to determine whether individual holders of public functions have been involved in the approval and allocation of those loans or have misused their political influence for the approval and granting of loans, to establish the political responsibility of individual public function holders for the suspicion that they have been involved in the financing of contested management acquisitions by banks or credit institutions in the predominant state ownership, to determine whose political influence and what interests they have led to the adoption of suspected weak or inadequate legal signatures, on the basis of which the contested public authorities have been executed, to determine whether they have been responsible or have not taken up by law, to the extent that they have failed to give due regard to the necessary powers, to take up, to which they have failed to take decisions by means of law, to prevent, by means of which they are not, by means of law, by means of law, by means of which they are not to which they are not to take decisions. The scope of the parliamentary investigation is: the investigation should cover the financing of the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz, holding company d.d. and Pivovarna Laško d.d. by banks or credit institutions held by a majority of state-owned entities [[credit institutions within the NLB Group and NKBM, d.d.]] , where the investigation should also cover the so-called lending lines of these banks or credit institutions to other business banks that have assisted managers and related persons in the acquisition activities of those companies. The investigation should focus on a time period of 30. 8. 2005 onwards, or from the sale of capital shares of the Capital Company, d.d., and the Slovenian Compensation Company, d.d., in Mercator, d.d., to the submission of a request in the parliamentary procedure, since the equity shares mentioned or their portions of the flag for loans were used for the management acquisitions of Istrabenz, the holding company, d.d. and Pivovarna Laško, d.d., at the same time impregnable, for state property is harmful, the way in which the State withdraws from the ownership of Mercator, d.d., meant a green light for accelerated ownership consolidation with management acquisitions. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to refer it to the National Assembly for the next meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am also adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much, very good-bye.
