ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by a member of the Magi. Anton Rop. I welcome everyone here. On a visit to Slovenia is Mr Vitor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, whom I warmly welcome among us and ask him to address the National Assembly. Please, Mr. President. At the same time, I'm informing you that the address is simultaneous. You have Slovenian on number one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u2	Mr. President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a great honour for me to be President of the European Court of Auditors today to have the opportunity to speak before you here in the Chamber of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to thank you, Dr. Pavel Gantar, and I would also like to thank the President of the Slovenian Court of Auditors, Dr. Igor Šoltes, who allowed me to perform today. I am aware that I am standing before you in a democratic political institution that has already achieved a great deal. Among other things, you have made a very important contribution to the success of Slovenia in becoming a member of the European Union in 2004. After that, Slovenia was the first EU 10 countries to introduce the euro in 2007. In 2008, Slovenia was the first to preside over the Council of the European Union. Political leadership to achieve greater European integration is becoming increasingly important, especially in the light of global challenges such as the current financial and economic crisis and climate change. Meeting these challenges requires coordinated action at national, European and international level. In addition, quite a lot of public funding will be needed, but the success of political institutions, both at Union and national level, in order to ensure such leadership of the European Union and this success will depend on the ability to maintain the trust of European citizens. Let me give you an example, the process of ratifying the Treaty of Lisbon and the near elections for the European Parliament remind us that the confidence of the citizens of the European Union does not show us to take for granted something which is in itself conditional. I am convinced that independent audit institutions, such as the European Court of Auditors and the Slovenian Court of Auditors, play an essential role in helping to preserve the trust of EU citizens, but this trust must be built through the process of ensuring accountability and transparency. Independent audit institutions play a key role in this process in modern democratic societies. However, cooperation and concerted efforts by independent audit institutions, all 27 Member States and the European Court of Auditors are needed in the European Union with 27 Member States. Responsibility and transparency are therefore fundamental building blocks for gaining the trust of our citizens. They allow citizens to know that their money is being used wisely and that they see improvements. Parliament's supervision is a key process to achieve this. It's not an easy task, and you know it better than I do. Legislation is very often a matter of urgency, we are talking about large sums. Enforcement policies include many and different public and private actors, in particular in the European Union with 27 Member States. In such a complex environment, maintaining responsibility and transparency is something that means that responsibilities are clear that our conduct is simple enough and that adequate information is available. This, however, leads me to the next question; why does an independent audit at EU and national level need to ensure accountability and transparency? First time. The audit shall provide relevant, reliable and impartial data and opinions, which shall also enable public oversight of the enforcement authority. The auditors shall report publicly on whether the government accounts are reliable or whether the applicable rules and regulations have been complied with and whether the funds have been spent economically, efficiently and effectively. National constitutions give national audit institutions the necessary mandate, powers and independence to answer the above-mentioned questions. The same applies to the European Court of Auditors, which is guaranteed by the Treaty on European Communities. Another time. The auditors help to promote as much responsibility and transparency as possible by giving independent advice to those who adopt policies and decisions, helping them to develop new legislative and budgetary proposals. The European Court of Justice does this by making recommendations on its reports, publishing opinions on the draft European legislation and also contributing to the public debate on the use of European funds. This has helped the European Court of Justice to develop many initiatives to improve the management of EU funds, including the current reform process of the European budget. Nevertheless, sometimes we hear questions about why spending on European funds cannot be audited either by the European Court or by a national audit institution, why it is necessary to revise both. The answer has much to do with how they are made up and how both European policy and the European budget are implemented. Firstly, 90% of all EU funds come from national budgets financed from national taxes and 80% of European expenditure goes through national budgets. In particular, these are funds intended for agriculture and structural measures. These funds are therefore managed and supervised by the European Commission and also by institutions at national, regional and even local level. In addition, European initiatives, such as the revised Lisbon Strategy, the European Economic Recovery Plan, set out common objectives that must be achieved through a combination of measures that fall within the competence of European institutions and beyond. As you can see, at least partial overlaps between the role of the European Court of Auditors and national audit institutions cannot be avoided. However, these institutions have different and complementary roles and views regarding the use of European funds. National institutions shall review how the authorities in the Member States fulfil their responsibilities with regard to the collection and use of European funds. The European Court of Justice, however, revises European policies, not Member States' policies. This is from the European Union's point of view, until the final recipient of European funds in the Member States. In this way, European citizens receive assurances not only about the functioning of their national institutions, but also about the national institutions of other Member States and also about European institutions. In addition, national audit institutions help to improve financial management in their own Member States and the European Court of Justice contributes to the exchange of best practices and to improving the efficiency of the functioning of European institutions. Citizens also want the audits they pay for to be as effective and effective as possible. In the European context, cooperation and coordination are key to effective and efficient audits of European spending. The European Court of Auditors and the national audit institutions therefore cooperate on a bilateral and multilateral basis to try to minimise the audit burden. However, we can only do so within the framework of the current framework governing the management and control of funds and at the same time we must respect our mandate. On this occasion, let me say that we are fortunate in the European Court of Justice that our member is also Dr Antončič, former President of the Slovenian Court of Auditors, who contributes significantly to mutual understanding and fruitful cooperation between the various institutions. Cooperation and coordination help us to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our audits in a variety of ways. If I just give you a case. National audit institutions shall assist in carrying out audits of the European Court of Auditors in the Member States. Here I would like to thank my colleagues from the Slovenian Court of Auditors for their assistance in carrying out the missions of the European Court of Auditors in Slovenia. Next. We are trying to serve on each other's work already done and in our annual report, and also in specific reports, the European Court of Auditors is using the evidence that they have reached at national level in their reports. Next. We are working to develop common standards, approaches and methods. The main forum to do so is the Contact Committee of the Heads of the Supreme Audit Institutions of EU Members. If I give you a case. In December 2008, we discussed the review of the European budget, the Lisbon Strategy, and in February this year we discussed the role of the Supreme Audit Institutions in the light of the current economic and financial crisis. However, there are limits to improvements in the revision of European funds that can be achieved by auditors. It is critical that the internal control system on the use of European funds also works well and improves. This issue is now increasingly given priority both at European and national level. The European Commission is currently implementing an action plan to achieve an integrated internal control framework for European funds. This happened on the basis of the opinion of the European Court of Auditors concerning the single audit model. In addition, we encourage Member States to make national declarations regarding the use of European funds. A number of countries have already done that. In addition, certain national audit institutions are already beginning to certify the use of European funds by national authorities. Many, like the Slovenian Court of Auditors, have dedicated departments to revise European funds. However, it should be stressed that the European Court of Justice will be able to apply national declarations concerning European funds only if these declarations are appropriate, comparable and given in a timely manner. To achieve this, the European Commission, the Member States and the European Court must continue to cooperate. Political institutions, including the European Union, national parliaments, the European Parliament, play a very important role, as they point to improvements not only in terms of resource management and control over European funds but also in terms of auditing the use of funds. Mr President, honourable Members! The African proverb says, "If you want to travel fast, go alone, if you want to travel far, go together.".. The European Union is on its way. Our journey is long, and we face great challenges. These challenges will require leadership on the part of national political institutions such as yours and, on the other hand, we will need the cooperation of your colleagues at European level in order to make cooperation even better. By cooperating and coordinating our efforts to promote accountability and transparency, independent audit institutions, the Slovenian and European Court of Auditors, will be able to preserve the trust of European citizens. We are already looking forward to playing our part in achieving these goals. It was an honor to have spoken to you today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u3	I thank the President of the European Court of Auditors for his words! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our session. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members! Given that this is the second treatment of the law you have with its contents, I will not be familiar with it. The law was somewhat supplemented on the basis of the report of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Government shall support any additions adopted by the Committee on Finance. At the same time, we propose that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the bill be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent body. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Greetings to the Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law at its 5th session, on 7 May 2009. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which commented on Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the legislative proposal. On this basis, the members of the Committee, within the framework of the supplementary working material, have considered and adopted proposals for amendments to that Article. No amendments were tabled to the legislative proposal by qualified applicants within the time limit set. The basic objective of the bill is to ensure that the work of the tax authorities is more effective. The latter, among other things, ensure that part of the enforcement authority is transferred from one tax authority to another tax authority to the customs administration. In addition, with a view to increasing efficiency, it is envisaged that the powers conferred on the official should be withdrawn in the event that there are certain grounds or transfers to another post for which the exercise of the powers is not specified and for which it fulfils the conditions laid down and for which a public servant is able to exercise it. The proposed word fulfils the fundamental principles of economy, efficiency and rationality, while in the event of the incompatibilities of the activities carried out under the current regime, the public servant may be excluded from the employment relationship. The text under consideration provides for the possibility of withdrawing the authorisation by transferring to an appropriate post for which it fulfils the conditions laid down and is capable of performing it. At the same time, the proposal for a law contains the obligation of the Tax Administration to provide for the accident insurance of persons who, due to the nature of the work, are exposed to an increased risk of accidents at work. At the hearing, the representative of the proposer expressed support for the Committee's amendments on the basis of a notice from the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in the opinion expressed, address the shortcomings of the original text. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed that the amendments tabled by the Committee followed the comments made by that service. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, the Committee has drawn up and adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 upon consideration of the articles of the legislative proposal. Following the end of the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on all articles simultaneously and adopted them in accordance with the third indent of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee adopted all the articles of the bill below. However, the amendments adopted are included in the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary of State, visitors! Of course, there is no doubt that we are talking about changes and additions to the Tax Service Act, which benefits the whole country and is a useful, timely recovery of taxes and thus an increase in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why, of course, we will not oppose this law in our party, the Slovenian National Party. As in connection with the next law, which we will be talking about in a few minutes, we can say that it is right that the collection of taxes is divided into two jobs, namely Durs and Curs, to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, that we will once properly recover what is said to be the transfer of the recovery of foreign claims to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The objectives are clear, we have heard them in the opening presentation also by the President. It is good that all the amendments have been adopted in the light of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on its own behalf, I would point out Article 10, which states that the Tax Administration shall, within 30 days of the entry into force of the Act, send a public invitation to natural persons to submit invoices to the competent tax office. Yeah. Of course it's right, the contents of Article 10 are very good for people. Why in 30 days, why not now?Oh, my God! Furthermore, Article 10 states that natural persons must communicate to the competent tax office the information referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Why in the '90s? Why not before?Oh, my God! Furthermore, a natural person who does not inform the competent tax office of an account opened outside the Republic of Slovenia within the time limit referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be liable for an offence of between EUR 210 and EUR 1200. The question is only, and we all know well how many of these accounts are diversified, Slovenes and Slovenians abroad we do not know about. I hope that after the adoption of this law we will find out. But why 30 days?Oh, my God! Right away. Why 90 days?Oh, my God! Right away. And not 210 to 1200 euros. It's less than an accident for one driver who's on the road every day, one offense. Twelve thousand euros. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like this Article to be faster and more punished. Let's think about it. We will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Service Act with a view to amending Article 10 in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Okay, you can switch. Please. Mr Guido Kres has the floor, but I would like to ask you to announce this earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u10	Excuse me, Mr. President. In the future, it will be as it must be. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to the applicant, the amendment of the Tax Service Act requires the need to change the performance of the tasks of the tax authorities, including the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to enable a gradual transfer of the recovery of public duties and other administrative claims from the tax administration to the customs administration. On the basis of the analysis carried out by the Tax Administration and the comparison between the recovery of taxes and foreign claims, it was found that a similar number of enforcement decisions had been issued, but the amount of the tax waivers was significantly higher than the amount of foreign claims recovered. The proposed way is to increase the efficiency of recovery of tax liabilities by transferring the recovery of foreign claims to the customs administration and thus achieve greater inflows to the state budget. The draft law also amends certain other provisions. We support the proposed solutions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. It's nice greetings to all of them, to those in the hall, and to those on the balcony. What about the changes and additions to the tax service law? The main objective of all such laws is to ensure greater efficiency in the work of tax authorities. One measure thus provides for the transfer of part of the powers of enforcement from the so-called Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to the Customs Administration. It is about implementing the principle of economics, efficiency and the principle of rationality, which is certainly important and necessary sometimes and in the moments in which we live today. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law, as there are still important changes if we want to improve the management of the main task of the tax service. This is, of course, the most efficient collection of taxes and then the clear commitment, the commitment and the task that these pooled funds are then also rational, fair and transparently used for our common good. The objective of each country is to fill the budget with as many taxes as possible. Therefore, it seems reasonable to redistribute the recovery of the so-called foreign claims to the Customs Administration, although the reallocation itself has not yet ensured that this matter will also be more efficient and effective in recovery, as far as recovery of both tax and tax claims is concerned. In this area, there are several problems in the efficiency of the tax service in everyday life. Therefore, it should be the first and main task of the country's financial interests, whether or not, to ensure that taxes are collected as efficiently as possible through appropriate administrative procedures and material support. In addition, it is important to mention that more than the first part of the amendments to the law relating to the tasks of the tax service or the transfer of powers to the customs office seems to us an important part which speaks of the extension or strengthening of the content of the tax register and of the same operation and of the treatment of both natural and legal persons engaged in the activity. It is simply a matter of final information on the type of tax liability of natural and legal persons, and these are largely collected in the tax register, which will undoubtedly improve the various data management applications so far and will allow for a rapid and, above all, simple review of the taxes to be paid by different taxpayers. And what is important in the end, this new database will be uniformly managed, a good basis for a further need for a new tax information system and the management of tax records. Of course, the proposal for a tax service law will receive the support of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the law requires a change in the implementation of tax enforcement by tax authorities, namely the power to carry out the tax enforcement of foreign claims transferred from the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in order to implement the principle of economic performance in the performance of the duties and, of course, the resulting efficiency of the collection and recovery of tax obligations. The proposal for a law provides for the possibility of depriving authorised officials of their powers in the event of serious disciplinary infringements found, health restrictions for which they are no longer able to perform the tasks of authorised officials and where they carry out an activity which is incompatible with the duties of the tax service. A public servant who, by a decision of the Director-General, is deprived of his powers shall be assigned to an appropriate post for which he fulfils the conditions laid down and is able to manage it. The bill also includes the obligation of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to provide for the accident insurance of persons exposed to an increased risk of accidents at work due to the nature of the work, which is certainly good. The proposed new text of Article 6(13), however, removes the power of the Tax Office to recover State and local self-government claims in accordance with the law governing the general administrative law and the law governing offences. At the same time as this amendment to the law governing the tax service, it is necessary to amend the law governing the customs service, which we will also consider today in the next item of the agenda. The coordinated adoption of both laws is necessary to prevent the decision on the same matter from being taken at the same time by the two authorities or by the other extreme that no authority would be responsible for that task. The tax administration will be more effective in the collection and recovery of taxes by decommissioning its actual remit to recover other monetary non-tax liabilities. The proposed amendment also allows for the employment of expatriates in the workplace of persons who do not have a special professional examination, including candidates outside the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that they do so within one year. At that time, only some preparatory work shall be carried out in accordance with the powers. The additions we have adopted on the Home Committee are also supported by the Group of Social Democrats. In view of all the above and the solutions offered by the amendment of the Tax Service Act, the Social Democrats' Group will also support the bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u16	Again, thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we constantly take up and support all types of implementation of an effective and transparent tax administration. In our view, however, special attention and more effort should be paid to the prosecution of tax evasion. We will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act in our SDS Group, because laws are a living thing and it is right that, given the current situation, they also change and complement what we expect to happen in the future. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act is, according to the applicant, necessary because of the changed circumstances following Slovenia's entry into the EU and pending the entry of the Republic of Croatia into this relationship. This showed the need to change the implementation and different allocation of tasks between the tax authorities, namely the Customs Administration and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus the need to amend both laws governing that service. The amendment will allow for the transfer of tasks related to the recovery of monetary non-tax liabilities from the Tax Administration to the Customs Administration, which is intended to increase the efficiency of the work of the tax authorities. We believe that it is also appropriate to amend the possibility of depriving an official of his or her powers in cases of major infringements or in case of health restrictions in order to place them in the appropriate place for which they fulfil the conditions. As we say, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, visitors and visitors, colleagues and colleagues! The Tax Service Act, adopted in 2004, enters into force in 2005, regulates the tasks and organisation of the tax service, the powers of the tax service and the tax register. The changes that are ahead of us are mainly due to the need to change the performance of the tasks of the tax authorities, including the Customs Administration and the Tax Administration. In view of the changed circumstances at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and Croatia's expected entry, it has been shown that the changes governing the customs service and those governing the tax service are particularly necessary. This is a gradual transfer of the recovery of public duties and other administrative claims from the Tax Office to the Customs Administration. On the basis of the analysis carried out and the comparison between the recovery of taxes and foreign claims, it was found that a similar number of enforcement decisions had been issued in the field of taxes and foreign claims, but the amount of tax recovered was significantly higher than the amount of foreign claims recovered. The number of decisions issued on the enforcement of tax liabilities is generally higher than the number of decisions recovered and there is a particularly large difference between the financial differences. Indeed, the amount of the duties recovered is more than half lower than the amount of the tax liability on the basis of the decisions issued. The basic objective of the amendment is therefore to ensure a more efficient work by tax authorities by transferring part of the executive powers from one tax authority to another tax authority, i.e. from the Tax Office to the Customs Administration. According to the Government, the objective of a more efficient performance of the tasks is also based on the proposal to take over the powers of the authorised official, where there are specific reasons for doing so, or on its relocation to another post for which the exercise of the powers is not specified and for which it fulfils the conditions laid down and for which it is also capable of being carried out by a public servant. In view of the increased exposure of certain persons who are exposed to work risks in the exercise of their powers, the amendment introduces appropriate insurance for authorised and other officials. As it is said, these are principles of economy, efficiency and, above all, rationality. And this leads to the transfer of certain tasks from the Tax Office to the Customs Administration. In view of the more effective enforcement of tax obligations and its related positive effects, which we expect and will be demonstrated in future also in national and municipal budgets, we really agree with the amendment of the Tax Service Act and will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u20	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. Respected Visitors and Visitors to the National Assembly. The main reason for the amendment of the Tax Service Act is to ensure a more effective part of the tax authorities, by transferring part of the power to administer enforcement from one tax authority, namely the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to another tax authority, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This will, upon the assurance of the applicant, contribute, on the basis of actual data and analyses, to a more effective recovery of tax liabilities by Dursa, and consequently to the filling of the budget treasury, as it has been shown that the amount of tax recovered is more than half lower than the amount of tax liabilities on the basis of the decisions issued. More inflows into the state budget are more than necessary today. Such a change also requires, of course, the amendment of the Customs Service Act. We support both complementary proposals, with appropriate amendments prepared on the basis of comments made by the Law and Legal Service in the DeSUS Group. We must point out, however, that both proposals have been extremely superficial, as the number of amendments required shows that matter is in line with existing legislation in both substantive and nomological terms. This comment, however, has no intention of sounding out as a criticism, but rather as a recommendation, a suggestion for more careful and careful action by the drafters of the draft laws. Members of the DeSUS support the transfer of part of the authority to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to the administration of enforcement from Dursa. We also agree with other staff-coloured changes, such as the grounds for depriving inspectors of their powers, to allow the rectifier to carry out a professional examination within one year of appointment and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members! This law is linked to the first law. As already established, it covers four areas, namely the delegation of tasks between Durs and the Customs Administration, the field of investigations and powers, to a new regulation or amendment and amends provisions relating to the collection of environmental duties and introduces certain other amendments which are mainly editorial in nature. Also in this law, a number of comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which were summarised in the amendments included in the amended proposal. The Government supports this amendment, but we also propose to this Act to the National Assembly that the procedure under Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure be brought together or that the third reading of the law be considered at the same time at today's meeting and that the law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 5th session, 7.5.2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service which examined the law submitted in respect of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical position and forwarded specific comments to the type of articles, namely Articles 3, 7, 8, 11, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of the legislative proposal. On this basis, the members of the Committee, within the framework of the supplementary working material of 5.5, took note of the Committee's proposals for amendments to all this article of the legislative proposal, as is then reflected in the follow-up to this report. No amendments were tabled to the legislative proposal by qualified applicants within the time limit set. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposer expressed the opinion, under the various articles, that the proposals of the amendments to the Committee address the shortcomings of the original text and that the Government also supports them. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed that the amendments tabled by the Committee follow the comments made by that service, and that the recommendation remains that in the next amendment to the Tax Service Act it would be appropriate to simplify the arrangements relating to the establishment of the professional education of expatriators, since the text submitted does not contain this text. Following the end of the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on all articles simultaneously and adopted them in accordance with the third indent of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. The amendments to the previous law and the law now before us are linked. Complementary amendments to the Customs Service Act are also needed for the transfer of the aforementioned tasks from the Tax Office to the Customs Administration. In addition, the law before us contains some other changes in the investigation and detection of infringements of the rules for the control of which the customs service is competent and will achieve more effective detection and investigation of infringements and increase legal certainty for suspected offenders. The law also introduces changes in the field of environmental taxes and introduces an institute for environmental tax control and environmental tax control. Like the previous law, we will also support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A nice hello again. Slovenian customs is one of the modern customs administrations of the European Union and, according to the opinion of our party, relatively well protects legal economic flows and protects the lives and health of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and at the same time other members of the European Union, by preventing the illegal importation of various goods and substances into the European Union. We believe that Slovenian customs is one of those national authorities which, at the time of Slovenia's accession to the European Union, experienced the greatest changes. On the one hand there are changes in content, including personnel, but certainly changes for Slovenian customs are not yet over. Significant changes, particularly further human resources cuts, are promised by Croatia's accession to the European Union in the coming years. It is therefore right that we gradually prepare customs for this too. In this light, we certainly also have a positive assessment of the bill under consideration, which in particular extends one of the basic tasks of Slovenian customs, namely the collection and enforcement of various duties for which the customs service is responsible. The proposal thus brings a different distribution of tasks between the two tax authorities and, on the one hand, the customs authorities and, on the other hand, the tax administration. With the entry into force of the amendment under consideration, a gradual transfer of tasks relating to the recovery of monetary non-tax liabilities from the Tax Office to the Customs Administration will begin. The burdened recovery of so-called foreign claims and the implementation of the enforcement of tax obligations alone is intended by the Tax Administration to increase the efficiency of the recovery of tax liabilities and thereby ensure greater inflows to the State budget. However, it is a matter of concern that it is implicitly acknowledged that the executions of both claims have so far not been optimal. And with this aim of improving the case, we must also address all the changes. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that it would be very good if the National Assembly or the competent labour bodies in the near future were to be informed of the success of the work of the Tax Administration, as well as of all the problems faced by this important State body, simply with a simple objective and the task of bringing the legislation that we are preparing in the future into line with these objectives, that tax procedures are even clearer, transparent and, above all, more effective. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also find important those legislative provisions of the proposed amendment which interfere with customs investigations with the aim of more effective detection and investigation of breaches of the rules that fall within the competence of the customs administration. I would also like to draw attention to the part of the novel that concerns environmental benefits, which are an important instrument of environmental policy. The proposal also lays down the content of environmental tax control and environmental tax control and details of the powers of the Customs Administration in relation to the collection of environmental taxes for which it is responsible. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we also estimate that the amendment continues the gradual evolution of the Customs Administration from the classic customs service to the wider tax authority. How successful the division of tasks between Customs and the Tax Administration will be. Regardless of this and irrespective of the inevitable changes in the near future, the remaining Slovenian customs will remain all the classic tasks of the customs service. The planned permanent growth of the transhipment in Luka Koper in the coming years must be a challenge for Slovenian customs to work even more successfully in this classical customs area. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law on customs service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u30	Havela beautiful, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting to everyone once again. In view of the changed circumstances resulting from the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia and in anticipation of the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time in order to ensure more effective implementation of the tasks in the tax system, in particular to achieve a more efficient recovery of the financial claims and thus higher revenues for the State budget, a proposal is drawn up to amend the implementation and different allocation of tasks between the tax authorities, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment of the law allows for the gradual transfer of tasks relating to the recovery of monetary non-tax liabilities from the Tax Administration to the Customs Administration and thus does not create a legal void. The first part of the draft law lays down the additional powers of the customs service. The law provides as a new task for the customs service for the implementation of tax enforcement procedures for monetary non-tax liabilities. These are the money obligations laid down by the non-tax authorities in accordance with the sectoral laws and recovered by the tax authority in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the tax procedure. The implementation of these tasks is thus transferred from Dursa to Curs, as the amendment of the Tax Service Act, which is substantively and time-conciliated, allows the amendment to transfer real powers to the area of enforcement of monetary non-tax liabilities. Due to the organisational and staffing constraints and the necessary preparations by customs authorities for the implementation of the tax enforcement of monetary non-tax liabilities, the transitional provision regulates the procedure for time limits of the delegation of power. Thus, it will be ensured that the delegation of powers in the work where new and amended tasks of tax enforcement under the law governing criminal proceedings are first carried out to enable the customs service to make an organisational adjustment to the most extensive part of the recovery of foreign claims, the transitional provisions provide for a transitional period and thus later the implementation of tax enforcement under the law governing the general administrative procedure, the law governing administrative fees and the law governing offences. The definition of additional conditions restricts the power to obtain access to the business or residential premises of taxable persons and provides for the use of technical devices in the execution of the exercise. In the second set of proposed legislative changes, they also interfere with customs investigations in which, in practice, the exercise of powers has shown that some issues need to be addressed differently and some new powers should be added. In the case of customs investigations, the possibility of sealing the premises and documents shall be introduced as a new jurisdiction, if necessary in order to carry out the investigation. A new quality is given to the customs investigation as it raises a standard which is an assumption for the initiation of an investigation on reasonable grounds of suspicion that a person has violated the rules under the authority of the service. Thus, from the moment the investigation of the infringements is focused on the suspect, its rights are more effectively protected, the solutions proposed at the same time create a greater weight of the evidence collected, which may play an important role in the success of the possible criminal proceedings. As so far as customs inspectors have exercised the necessary powers to detect possible infringements and perpetrators and to collect the necessary information, provided that there is a condition that there is a suspicion of a breach of the rules of the customs service. It also seems important to us that the third set of proposed amendments relates to environmental benefits collected under the applicable environmental regulations by the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment of the law introduces the Institute of Environmental Tax Control and Environmental Tax Control and clearly establishes the competence of the customs administration in this area. We hope that this will also contribute to greater protection of the natural and non-natural environment. In view of all the above and the solutions offered by the amendment to the Tax Service Act, the Social Democrats Group will also support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present. It appears that in the National Assembly, as regards support for the amendment of the Tax Service Act and the amendment of the Customs Service Act, we will be united and may consider in future changes to the Rules of Procedure, that in such cases, where there are no conflicting views, we will reduce the time for presentation and rather devote it to substantive issues, those in which, according to the new, the opposition must not speak or be allowed to speak. The proposed amendments to the Customs Service Act state that, due to the changed circumstances that took place at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and pending the Republic of Croatia's entry into the European Union, there is a need to change the implementation and different allocation of work between the tax authorities: the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, for which both laws are being amended, including the one governing the customs service. The proposal for a law thus lays down the additional powers of the customs service. The law provides as a new task for the implementation of tax enforcement procedures for monetary non-tax liabilities. In the case of customs investigations, the possibility of sealing premises and documents, if necessary for the purpose of carrying out an investigation, is introduced as a new quality, as a standard is raised, which is the assumption for the initiation of an investigation, so that from the moment the investigation of the infringements is focused on the suspect, its rights are more effectively protected, etc. Due to the organisational and human resources constraints and the necessary preparations by the customs authorities to carry out these new tasks, in particular the exercise of the tax enforcement of monetary non-tax liabilities, the transitional provisions regulate the gradual transition of those powers. It is therefore a matter of amendments to the law, which, together with the amendment of the Tax Service Act, seek to do more effectively, and that is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. The new Customs Service Act, which regulates the tasks and organisation of the customs service, powers, data protection and security, the specificity of the labour relationship, the specificity of disciplinary and compensation liability, recognition and offences, is a consequence of the novelty that we have dealt with under the previous item on the agenda. The tasks of the customs service managed by the Customs Administration also apply to the tax system. The customs administration, as one of the tax authorities, collects various taxes on imports such as VAT, excise duties and environmental taxes. In accordance with the explicit provisions of the law governing the tax procedure, customs collection is also considered to be the collection of the tax recovered by the Customs Administration with its dependants. As part of the previous hearing, we have said that one of the reasons for changing our country's entry into the EU and Croatia's entry is. The changed circumstances require a change in implementation and a different allocation of tasks between the Customs and Tax Administration. The proposed legislative amendment allows for the gradual transfer of tasks relating to the recovery of monetary non-tax liabilities from the Tax Office to the Customs Administration. The amendment of the law has also proposed customs investigations in which, in the current exercise of powers, it has shown that some issues need to be addressed differently and some new powers should be added. However, customs investigations also need to be amended due to the expected changes to the law governing criminal proceedings, as the role of the customs service is also to be established in the forecasting procedure. The third set of amendments before us relates to environmental benefits collected by the Customs Administration under the applicable environmental rules. The proposed amendments relating to environmental duties are aimed at defining the type and scope of control and controls carried out by the customs authorities with regard to the fulfilment of the obligations of environmental duty debtors. Since these are changes that follow the principles of efficiency and economics, we really support the proposed changes in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. As has already been said, the amendment of the Customs Service Act requires the amendment of the Tax Service Act. It is therefore a matter of transferring tasks or responsibilities with regard to the recovery of monetary non-tax liabilities from Dursa to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and it is appropriate to amend certain provisions of this Act accordingly. Members of the DeSUS have already expressed our agreement on these amendments in our consideration of the proposal for a new Law on the Tax Service. The remaining changes which have proved necessary in practice relate to customs investigations. Part of the amendment is the establishment of an institute for environmental tax control and environmental tax control, which are now inconsistent with existing legislation. As a body responsible for collecting environmental taxes, as well as for exercising control of the legality, it will be properly and in time to fulfil the obligations of the debtors of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, which has been properly remedied on the basis of comments by the Legal and Legislative Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u38	The content of the Customs Service Act in connection with the law referred to in point 1 was all said. So the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will take over part of the tax administration. Likewise, it is right that the country collects taxes also from other titles coming from other circles. However, I would like to speak substantively about one part which is defined in this law, namely environmental tax control, as defined in Article 1, point 1. Of course it's right. And when we saw this personally, I asked myself what it was and this explanation I got in Article 10(1), where it said that "it is environmental tax control over the proper implementation of the environmental tax rules for collection of which the competent service is and is carried out in accordance with this law." I won't read any more. I would like to point out that this is such a loose nut, including under point 2 of Article "Environmental tax control includes verification of the correctness of environmental reporting..." This laxity foreseen by the law in this Article will be very difficult to implement in practice, especially at lower levels. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say - it is right that laws on amendments and additions to the customs and tax services laws are now being regulated. We caution, however, as in the first part, that it would be right for the drafter of this law to start thinking about the very precise definition of Article 10 under points 1 and 2, which define what environmental tax control is and what environmental tax control includes. Let me ask once again the preparers to be careful to be more specific, because in practice everything will be fictional and everyone will be able to do what they want. The objective will not be achieved, but environmental legislation will not be regulated as it should be. We also support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Magi Act. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. The mutual insurance company celebrates about a 10-year-old, because under the new law, it transferred the entire insurance portfolio of voluntary health insurance to the special insurance company Mutually. Today, the Mutual has about 900 thousand insured, including so many members of the Mutual Congregation who exercise their rights in the congregation. Probably 10 years ago, there was no coincidence that the provisions, how they were organised and who had the right to represent members in the assemblies - therefore, this arrangement was not random. Thus, the problem of collecting powers, lax regulations, the main decision-making power given to regional business units or the directors of these regional business units, who are organised to approach the collection of powers, gather enormous powers, and the apathy of the members of the Mutual Assembly is so great that we also have a case that there were as many as 76% of the votes in the ten largest terms. So 900,000 members of the Mutual have concentrated - whether I would say that even because of inactivity, only ten people have concentrated the vote. Therefore, the aim of the proposed law, which was tabled by the Group of Members and which I also co-signed, is to regulate the way in which the powers are collected and thus also the decision-making of the Assembly, to draw closer to members or insurers of the Mutual. Therefore, the proposal provides for the collection of powers for the Mutual Insurance Assembly in such a way as to ensure that the mandate for each Assembly to be convened is specifically drawn up that, of course, it is also necessary to lay down in this mandate a clearly visible mandate for the authorising officer. It is important that this proposal prevents the authorities of the management, control or associated persons from collecting powers. We are now once again witnessing the practice that has emerged in this House that this bill has come across the Committee on the Economy or on Finance, pardon, a whole bunch of amendments that have fully "set" the intention of the proposers. Thus, only one article remained from the basic law, namely that this law enters into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal. They've changed all the other articles. And not only editorially or according to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service nomotechnically, but substantively! It is obvious, colleagues and colleagues, that the lobbies, especially the SD lobby, which also has leading people in the Mutual Insurance Company, are so strong and so great the interests of these individuals that they have also managed to convince most of the coalition Members that they have adopted amendments that have fully "set" the basic purpose, so that the powers are collected transparently and that there is no conflict of interest between the administrations and of course representation at the assemblies. In fact, we have a meeting of a kind of board of directors of the regional offices of the Mutual. This Assembly shall appoint a Supervisory Board, which shall appoint its directors. A total conflict of interest and in the opinion of the rulings, especially in the view of the SD, which, lastly, also now has a director - and we also see what problems related to the management of this insurance company, as they are arguing and also forgiving each other - it is more than obvious that it is a political interest, a politically motivated intervention in this important insurance company. Of course, in the SDS we will insist on these changes that we have proposed, which is why we have also tabled amendments that return the text to its original form.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 5th session, on 7 May 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which drew attention to the unappreciated relationship of the law submitted with the Company Act as a general law governing the issue of the social assembly. It also noted that the introductory explanation concerns the Mutual Health Insurance and the content of the law applies to all mutual insurance companies. It also made specific comments to Articles 1 and 2 concerning, in particular, the definition of the concept of a shorter family member and of worse infringements, and the question of the admissibility of the rejection of a reference or the withdrawal of the Assembly at the request of a minority of members, subject to the consent of the Minister responsible for health. In the course of the course of business, the SDS Group tabled amendments to Articles 1 and 2. As additional material, the following proposals for amendments to the SD, LDS and DeSUS Committee of the SD Group were forwarded to the Committee on the 1st and 2nd Articles, as well as the new Article 2a of the new Article of Parliament, as well as the amendments to the amendment to the same Article 2 of the SDS. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government, which does not support the proposed law. He was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which, in agreement with the arguments of the Government of the draft law, did not support the law. The debate expressed support for the purpose of the proposed law, with some debaters pointing out the way in which legal solutions are implemented so that they are not inconsistent with other legislation. The opinion was expressed that the strict criteria for collecting powers for each assembly did not specifically provide for the protection of members, since it also takes time and costs to collect powers. It was noted that the fear of abuse of powers applicable for a longer period of time was lifted by the amendment proposal of the three coalition groups, which obliges the authorising officer to submit a written notification to each authorising officer within seven days before each assembly by means of proposals for conclusions and proposals for a vote. The size of the Mutual Health Insurance Company, which has 900,000 members, has also been highlighted and is placed in an exceptional position compared to other companies, with only 20,000 votes in the Assembly. This represents a certain anomaly that should be addressed by attracting more members to the decision-making process. The representative of the law's proponents expressed his reservation regarding the coalition amendments which persist in conflict of interest, and proposed a different regulation of the content and method of collecting powers in Article 2a, thus destroying the basic intent of the law. However, Ambassador William Trofenik's amendment assessed the way between the other amendments and the text of the proposed law as an intermediate path. The Government has not defined individual amendments and amendments since it has initially adopted a position that the proposed supplement does not fall within the applicable insurance law. Under the provisions of the new Article 2a under consideration, the Committee supported the content proposed by the three coalition groups and rejected the proposal by Mr Trofenik. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 2 and 2a of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the amendments proposed by the three coalition groups. The Committee did not define the amendments tabled by the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 and its proposal for amendments to the amendment of the same Group to Article 2, since the amendments adopted by the Committee to the provisions of those Articles made them irrelevant. The Committee adopted all the articles of the bill below and the amendments adopted are included in the text of the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. He doesn't want to. We have concluded by presenting the report. Since the National Assembly held its first hearing on the draft law at its 4th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a discussion on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18. 5. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Who wants to discuss this Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group? Please. He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on this amendment. We're moving on to Article 2.a. I am putting to the debate Article 2a and the amendment of the sent groups of Zares and of the LDS and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors here to point out that the amendment of the SDS Group is here on the fourth page immediately - "Article 2 shall be amended to read..." and then "Article 54a and Article 54b shall be added which read: the content and method of collecting powers Here is Article 54a and not Article 54b. [[...]] That's a lapsus. I'm putting this amendment to the debate. Yes, please report. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. I just want to draw attention to the difference between our amendment relating to Article 2a and the SDS amendment. What's the difference? The difference is in two parts, our amendment allowing for the collection of powers for each congregation of the Mutual and for a limited time limit of not more than 12 months, that is to say, for possibly more assemblies in one year or 12 months. Another difference is that, as far as our amendment is concerned, the administration or collectors must be disclosed and this must be published - a list of those collecting the authorisation on the Mutual website. At the same time, our amendment prevents the collection of powers for managers, employees and members of the Supervisory Board in a mutual insurance company and at the same time for competing administrations or management bodies of insurance companies engaged in the same type of insurance. Since we allow two types of powers, the mandate for each assembly and the time-limited powers for more than one assembly within 12 months, it is necessary to publish - those collecting powers or also obtaining the power to vote on specific substantive decisions. In the absence of such an authorisation or an order by the authorising officer, the collecting authority may be decided on its own motion. We, together with the co-proposers, have drawn up a proposal to amend this amendment, which I am talking about, which is going in this direction and will be tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order to eliminate even time-limited powers for 12 months and remain exclusively with the powers of each assembly, and all other essential provisions, which are outside this framework, remain unchanged. Once again, this is the difference between the proposaler's idea of not disclosing the collectors of powers and our idea of where the collectors of powers must be disclosed, and by which we prevent the collection of powers to management authorities, members of supervisory authorities and employees, of course, except for the 10 powers they may receive from their family members, if I say so on a working basis, of course this is not a legal term. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you very much. If I understand you, you are predicting in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 7, amendment or amendment. We'll take that into account. We will now proceed with the debate. Mr. Bogdan Barovich has applied. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The story of the Mutual Insurance is old and has a long tail. I remember a variety of stories and also all these discussions about the differences between the amendments tabled by one and the other, if we are talking specifically about 2a. Article 1(2) The very words "discover, reveal, hide, forbid, hide" say that all together is one misery, one god, where, if we are honest ordinary people and we who deal with legislation in specific areas, we no longer know who drinks and who pays. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it is the essence of mutual insurance companies, that their rights in the Assembly are exercised by members, but not by the administration, and that the benefits of the operation of insurance companies must belong to members, not individuals and administrations. I think I've made myself quite clear to the people who are looking at us, to the people that you are, and you're going to be putting in more amendments, that we're going to be honest with each other about the mutual insurance company and this law. 2.a Article and the amendment proposed in this case by the SDS will be supported by us, because it goes in this direction; it goes in the direction that the essence of the Mutual, that the benefits belong to members, that the rights are exercised by members, not by individuals, hidden and "sphoulani" left, right, up and down. In this case, we support the return of the original text and that the story is perfectly clear. 900,000 people are a huge number. After all, who will be responsible for this, if it happens, who will answer it, now I ask clearly and loudly, and I will tell many times if it happens that the only right of more than 900 thousand members will be mutual only an obligation to recapitalise it. Who's responsible for this? 900,000 members are and will eventually have to give and recapitalise only to retain their membership and retain their rights, or to "cassage" individuals, to have all rights, and 900,000 people will go "frances and lufts". I would like to point out who will be responsible for this. Therefore, I think it is necessary to say honestly, particularly to those who are familiar with this area, whether what is said in the amendment to Article 2a or the amendment in two parts of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I understand him as good and I will support him and the Slovenian National Party will also support this amendment. However, I would also like to make an actual expert definition of whether this amendment allows members the right to make clear everything they belong to, and that this amendment prevents members from being, after all, only employers for the Mutual, and they will not benefit from it, even though they belong to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform you that Member Vila Trofenik has announced that he will table an amendment to the amendment in accordance with Article 131(7). I'm asking, is this amendment ready? He's already ready. If you don't, I'll have the session suspended in 10 minutes. However, we can go on, only discussions should not be formally concluded because of the amendment. Then let's move on. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u48	This law is clearly due to the failure of an area in the basic law we adopted in March, but it has been dominated by a common will that governance, in particular the vocation of the Assembly and the gathering of powers and everything else for the Mutual Insurance Office, should be regulated in more detail and in particular to ensure that insurance undertakings have a greater impact on this business. But actually I didn't hear Mr. Trofenic predicting any change and I'm surprised that this way you're leading the session that you [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u49	Mr. Anderlich, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u50	No, no, no. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u51	I interpret the Rules of Procedure of the State [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u52	I'm just [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u53	the assembly in accordance with the requirements [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u54	see [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u55	And this is no place for [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u56	two debaters [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u57	Comments. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u58	Of course you're interpreting. There is no embarrassment, but in the debate that Mr Villa Trophynik had had, he did not say so. And someone who's discussing something that's not filed has to predict that he's going to table an amendment if that's the case. It can't be any different, it can't discuss something that isn't invested, and it's just you and him that's discussing something. We are also discussing and would like to discuss what he was discussing, because despite all that, I believed that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u59	Mr. Anderlich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u60	within its [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u61	He predicted that he would change [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u62	I'm talking. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u63	The amendment, as I listened to it, announced it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u64	You may have agreed in the group - it's also fine. But it's only right for everyone else to say it the way it is: he wasn't predicted. That's just a fact, and we can go to the magnetograms 100 times, but that's not the point either. I understand that this amendment, however, is better or that it improves what has been tabled in the amendment of the Zares Group and, in part, the LDS. When we talk about these matters when it comes to the congregation, it is indeed necessary to ensure that the insured ones come under their authority to influence the congregation itself. As can be understood, this complementary proposal of the amended Insurance Act is only one intermediate phase during the final regulation of mutual insurance status in Slovenia, and it would be appropriate to make some arrangements in the future to deal with this issue. This is a specific insurance company; it is an insurance company where there are 900 000 and more insured persons; it is a country with a particular interest and a particular need to ensure, also through this, additional health care or insurance and the use of services through this law. This amendment, one and the other, is worse in my opinion than the text drafted by the Finance Committee. It is simply that Article 2a clearly spells out how the powers are collected, how long they take and what the procedure must be for the disclosure of conflicts of interest to be revealed, how all possible misleading of those who have given the power to regulate information to the public, how information is, of course, particularly to the public concerned, and, most importantly, now that this change is made possible, it will then be impossible for competing insurance undertakings, the management of competing insurance undertakings and those interested in achieving in some way the right of influence in the insurance undertaking Mutual. This would be absurd for you to prohibit, on the one hand, what might also be constitutionally disputed, that even insurers who are in the service in one way or another in the Mutual should not do so, but should do so by those who are engaged in this activity in a competitive manner. This would be a great absurdity, because if I understood Mr Trofenik correctly, this amendment should be submitted as such. It is clear that even when it comes to the issue of banning employees in the Mutual, we cannot rule out how these gatherings are going to proceed. They will be able to hire someone on the road, pay him a certain amount, and acquire certain powers, and indirectly, of course, they will still have a decisive word. So to speak in this case of one or the other amendment for transparency - I don't think so. It would be more transparent if, in fact, as in the basic text of the amended bill, what must be done by those who collect - that is to say, this mandate, which should be for 12 months, could be revoked at any time and before each assembly when it comes to proposals for conclusions, all insurers must be informed, that is to say, that they have an influence. Moreover, it puts them in an active role to contribute to the fact that these conclusions are actually what they want. So they have to contain all the data that's going to do this. This must be stated and also a permanent mandate, which is crucial for this permanent authorisation to be revoked at any time. I'm going to wait for this amended amendment, and there's probably something else to say then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I've already received this amendment, the amended amendment of the Zares Group and the LDS Club of Deputies, and the other you haven't gotten to the table yet. I'm asking, do you want to continue the discussion or would you still want me to stop for ten minutes? [[...]] Excuse me? We're deliberating. All right, all right. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye Members and Members of Parliament and all others present! The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to the Insurance Act from this point of view, because the original law is flawed to the end and we do not know what it represents. Secondly, with the proposed amendment, we are returning the bill to the original text, which was amended by the amendment on the home working body by the coalition MPs. Thus, ten directors of regional business units of the Mutual, which is currently the only Mutual Insurance Company, will be able to continue to exercise in the congregations the powers they have or will obtain from members of this company. This is exactly what we want to prevent from being so narrowly dealt with in this law that ten units, ten unit directors, would decide on 900,000 insurers. Then, if that is the case, then it is better for us to abolish the Mutual Insurance and make the insurance of citizens, as it once was, but not for the ten directors to have such great powers, perhaps in some way to fill their pockets. However, it is right that this amendment would actually be adopted, as this would prevent the actual manipulation of 900 000 insurers. We know if they want to manipulate in such a way that it is necessary to change the law here in the National Assembly. We have tabled an amendment from this very point of view so that these manipulations do not occur, to this exploitation of this law. Therefore, Members and Members, I ask you to be reasonable that, at the end of the amendment tabled by the coalition parties, it is completely debilitated. So actually support this proposal, despite being an opposition party, but we are making the amendment well-intentioned, not for the benefit of anyone. We know very well that there have been a lot of pressures on us, on the part of the Mutual, that this law actually remains as it is. That's probably some pretty clear reason why. I therefore ask you once again to accept this matter and this amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to one specific feature which has been given to the Mutual Visa, possibly to other legal persons, particularly economic companies. In fact, the Mutual has about 900,000 members, let's say 900,000 shareholders, which are small shareholders, are very small shareholders. In fact, this is about voluntary health insurance payments and each member is relatively far from the policy of this society, he thinks, "What can I do with this contribution, I co-create," and therefore there is no interest, some desire of these members to actively participate in the decisions, in the business of the Mutual, that is to say, in everything that comes with the Mutual both current and developmental. That's the specifics. In fact, in companies we have shareholders, it is rare that they are as small as they are in this case, they are large shareholders, in some cases they may be large shareholders with 1%, but then they take their investment more seriously than in the case of 0.0001% of the shareholder. And this is the specificity of this Mutual and this particularity was used by the leaders, they said, "Fine, the members, the shareholders are passive, they come to the Assembly nothing, why we would not collect the powers as easily as possible to replace them by our own measure and by our own interests." And that's what's been going on, and that's what's still going on. She was shot at each other with affairs, with various intentions after ownership and so on. The leaders who launched the key affairs - even the supervisory institution seems to have taken away some of the powers - have misused this mutually. Now these same people have been reincarnated, again under new authority to take leading, important positions. This is not far from politics, and we all know the fraud of the current head of this insurance company with the ruling coalition SD, that is clear and well-known. So, in the SDS, we were aware of this situation that a handful of people with political support abuse this way, the passivity of members, and that it is very easy, without any major obstacles, to collect powers to this extent, even three-quarters, that they can replace supervisory authorities that are consequently loyal to them as administration. Now, by the coalition, we have some solutions that have been put in the committee's marriage text, which are just a little bit complicated by the gathering of powers for this same handful of people. For long and wide they will do so, describe the conflict or conflict of interest - they will say that they have no conflict of interest and so on. That's what they're saying. They're only getting a little bit blimped up about their simple job, as it has been so far. And they're going to have to do it a little bit more often. It's not exactly gonna give Bianca the power to do it all the time, and she's gonna have some time limit. Secondly, with this amendment, it does not change, or this solution, which has been enacted by the coalition Members on the Committee on the Economy or on Finance, does not change anything. In the SDS, we therefore propose that, due to the specificity of this insurance undertaking, it be very precise to arrange for each assembly, especially after the Assembly has convened, a way of collecting powers to clearly demonstrate the will of the member. And that these powers should not be collected by those who have been most frequently collected so far and who have thus far become deeply conflict of interest, i.e., directors of regional exposures. Do you know why the diction is "employee"? So that you wouldn't be tricked by the same regional secretary there to borrow a name like one lady loaned the name Bosku Shrotu to the "kasselc" company, according to her own words. We all know that, they wrote about it, and that's true. Therefore, we want to finally make one order so that members of the Mutual Insurance Company have rights that cannot be abused by others who have a direct interest. And all you do with these conflicts of interest is to explain it, in that letter is tossing sand in your eyes. They'll write sheets. I think they'll send the book to the members. A member who pays, I don't know, some 10 euros for this voluntary insurance, will get a brochure showing him that he is not in any conflict of interest with what I would say to those points of the assembly that are being discussed. Please don't tell me that these members are going to read it here and they're going to object to it in any way. Because of the passiveness and the passiveness resulting from their micro-dealing in this story, of course the caravan will run on, unchanged as ever. That's what you want to do! Here you are struggling with articles that are a long side and a half - namely, the amendment of the Zares and LDS Group as well as the basic amendment has a side and a half. I don't know. I've never seen one and a half A4. Just because they're confused about getting wrapped up in what's being done so far, that this way is even legalized and, as a result, it's confusing those members, who are unfortunately passive. This unfortunate insurance company has been shot in the face of an affair, see what is happening in the management itself now, what has happened in the past in the experimenting of some property and what has happened recently with the possibility of assigning profits to this insurance undertaking for other purposes as well. It came to an end when we tabled this proposal for a law, immediately the Mutual Assembly called the congregation, even as old as it was, to get it under the carpet and what can be done. Of course, most of these people have been able to molest most of the sentient groups, even in the SDS they have lobbyed strongly; they have lobbyed strongly. I also know that they have been among all the parties because they have not only attacked us, but they have not convinced us because we know that what is bad is bad and that they are fighting because they know that they will lose the privilege, and you are allowing them to go ahead and what you allow them to do, but we will persist in these solutions and will repeat them until there is more reason and desire for righteousness in this high temple of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I find that this new, amended amendment is not yet on your desks. I don't think it's possible to keep the debate going if you don't get it on the table. That's why I interrupt the session for 15 minutes, until 12.05 to get this amendment to the table. Thank you very much. We'll resume the meeting at 12.05 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session, namely, the discussion is under way on Article 2a and we will discuss the new text or the revised text you received on the bench. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the list. I'm opening the application. Please register all those who wish to discuss this Article and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Trofenik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. I will focus on this new amendment that we have tabled or replaced with our original amendment. And since some of the predecessors mentioned some inaccuracies in the debate, I have no choice but to try to summarise the provisions of this amendment. The first is that it is possible to exercise the right to vote on the basis of the written powers collected. Secondly, in addition to the general data on the authorising officer, the power must include proposals for decisions, a proposal by the voting officer for individual proposals for decisions to be reasoned in the mandate. Call on the members of the Mutual Insurance Company to give instructions on the exercise of voting rights and to warn that a member of the Mutual Insurance Company may withdraw the authorisation at any time until the vote in the Assembly. Third, who can't collect powers. Members of the management and control bodies and employees, I stress, and employees of the mutual insurance company. Members of the management and supervision authorities of the insurance undertaking which carries out insurance transactions in the same insurance type as the mutual insurance company. I would point out that it is not exactly what one debater said earlier about the abuse of employees, and it is not true that the boards of competing insurance companies are able to collect powers. Of course, employees and members of management and control bodies may vote under the authority of all third parties, that is to say, ten powers may be chosen. Well, the following important provision of this amendment is that the authorising officer must disclose in writing all the circumstances which may be relevant to the member’s risk assessment. And what are these risks or when conflicts of interest arise? That is, if the authorising officer is a related person under this law, in a contractual relationship with the mutual insurance company or has received donations from the mutual insurance company. The following important provision has been made that the plenipotentiaries who have decided to collect powers in an organised manner are said to be above 10 must inform the mutual insurance company 21 days before the meeting of the Assembly. However, the mutual insurance company shall publish, at the latest 18 days before the meeting of the Assembly, in a newsletter or electronic media of the company, or on its website a list of the collectors. These are essential provisions that reject a number of the claims made in the debate before my performance. We agree that the current situation is unacceptable and our only ambition is with this amendment, it will be accepted, it will help to make the situation better, or it will make it more transparent. Of course, we cannot say that for the current problems one way or another, the reasons are such or different political options and that the care for resolution belongs to individual groups - I think that responsibility and finding appropriate solutions or solutions from this illegal state is our common obligation for everyone in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you for your word and good afternoon, on my first ad today in the National Assembly. I would like to say that those who are the loudest, most harshly condemning the amendment adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, of course, want to say that, as we have heard at least 50 times or perhaps 100 times in this term, in the poor six months that we are unable to do anything, that we do nothing and that the most capable are those who have lost the elections. Okay, but if they're the most capable, then they can't claim that we did the wrong thing because we're incompetent because we helped get this law into procedure at all. If you were really so incompetent, you'd say O. K., this is one way or another without a relationship, and we will not help to adopt the law in the proposed first reading. We have accepted it and are now correcting it together because we cannot adopt anti-constitutional provisions. Even for this amendment, which is now being tabled by the Liberal Democracy and Indeed, it is not entirely reliable that there may not be any constitutional judgement, but that we will hear that, for example, prevention of employees in the insurance undertaking, who are also insured by this Mutual Insurance Company, is prohibited from collecting powers. I personally think it makes sense to at least try. However, four and a half years ago, so that those who are so terribly smart today and who accuse us of being the victim of the lobbyists of this insurance company could make the law so well fixed, perhaps even exclude it from the insurance law, could tear it away from the economic law - they could do so, they had a large, strong majority in the National Assembly, now they are shouting how we are not only incompetent, but also dishonest, lobbyistically adopted, and what I know is that at a time when all the instruments were available, all the tools were available, what they are saying is that it is absolutely necessary to do today - make sure that no one would say that there were no signals that it was necessary to do so. Not four years ago, a few years earlier, there had been serious warnings that something needed to be changed thoroughly in the Mutual, but you were not willing. Now that the milk is Polito, it's very easy to be a general after the lost war. For this reason, I think it makes sense to support this replacement or replacement amendment tabled by the Zares Group and the LDS Club and to try in reality what this will bring. The first congregation after the Law has been enacted will show whether this amendment is meaningful, beneficial, or will prevent any possible misuse of powers. I think that if we are really very real, as we have heard, but now anyone who is any employee - says any of the leadership of the Mutual, any employee in the Mutual, as it was originally in the current text of the law in the second reading, which changes this proposed amendment, can agree with him and those employees will then collect powers, 800 thousand powers and will have a large majority in the insurance company, so that the leadership of the Mutual will distribute an anonymous or on behalf of this purchased man book around, because it will mislead the authorities and so on. Who says that, for example, there will not be any "pinka a link" as we say in Primorska, which is not an insurer at all at the Mutual, which is an insurer, say, at Triglav or at Adriatic for the same insurance, convinced him that he appears as a collector of powers, made available to him all the necessary funds, not only money, but in particular the papers he needs to do so, and that he will collect powers and act as an agent for the 100,000 members of the Mutual? We'll see about that, because until you try something, you can't claim it's illegal, it's unfair, it's unfair. Very large words appeared today, such that he was obsessive around them, and the clergy guarded around someone who had four years to fix it did not settle it. That is why I will personally and also propose to my fellow Members that this replacement amendment be supported, because we have now eliminated employees in the Mutual and - which is very important - also competitive insurance companies. Why? Because, if we look at that, for example, an insurance company that carries out the same insurance, supplementary health insurance, as a competitor, it has an even greater interest as a competitor to influence the decision-making of a congregation in a Mutual Insurance company, a mutual one, because it is not necessary to say that it will remain the only mutual insurance company in Slovenia for all eternity. So, I think that this amendment is more and more a powerful improvement in what the SDS Group proposes and that it is worth supporting so that we can test the effects of changes to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u75	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. I think it is necessary to ask first, in the interest of who is actually established the Mutual or who are the ones who are supposed to exercise their privileges in the congregation. It is probably not the president of the administration, nor the members of the administration, nor the directors of the individual regional units that are employed there and who must work for the good of the company or insurance companies, but the 900 000 individuals involved in this insurance company. And despite the fact that this is a specific insurance company with a large number of insurers, I think it is right that the provisions concerning the exercise of these rights are clear and unequivocal. As a result, the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed an amendment to Article 54, which is clear and unequivocal. In a very clear way, it provides that the power can be obtained only for each assembly, that such powers may or may not be collected only after a public declaration has been made, that the content clearly defined by the power to vote in the assembly must be clearly defined and that all that is collected contrary to those provisions must be null and void. And in Article 54b, the prohibition of conflicts of interest, which requires that members of the family, as members of the board, are not able or are not allowed to collect such powers and that such powers are null and void. So why, in large words, do we all agree on, complicate, or complicate these very clear provisions, with great broad sentences?Oh, my God! Nor does this revised amendment, which we have just received on the table, solve these situations. It is now written here that "authors may gather for each congregation individually." Yes, you can! All others in that country are considered to have a special mandate under the Company Act. It is not allowed to have any authority that applies for an indefinite period of time. Only in this case can it happen to the unimaginable, it is said to be for one congregation, but it can also be for ten congregations. This is, in my opinion, unacceptable, despite the fact that it was justified that the reason was that it was 900,000 providers. There can't be a reason. It can't be, it can't be formal, and it can't be practical. Earlier in this amendment of the LDS and indeed, if the authorising officer fails to give instructions on the exercise of voting rights, the authorising officer may vote as he wishes. In 99% of the cases, those who give the authority won't write anything. They will write that they authorize, and that, in a particular case, a member of the board, a member of the supervisory board, someone who is linked in one way or another to the Mutual Insurance Office will vote as he wishes and which rights and entitlements he will exercise. Is it really the justifications of all those many small or other imaginary entitlements that we have witnessed in recent years? And it's true, it's a specific case that needs to be addressed. Unfortunately, however, not with the basic text and not with this amendment proposed by the LDS and Really, this problem will not be resolved. In a way, this story will turn into a slightly broader bureaucratic framework, but realisation and voting will take place in exactly the same way as before. For this reason, I personally see no reason why we should not adopt an amendment that is clear, unequivocal and which clearly states that everything which is not collected, we are talking about powers, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, is null and void. I think the only reason that the proposal came from the SDS is because of it. If this same proposal came from one of the other parties, I am sure that it would receive different support, which is bad. It is bad because we are talking about regulating the problem of all of us, but above all we are talking about protecting the interests of 900 000 insurers and insurers and not protecting the interests of individual members of the administrations, which we are reading in the media, which has recently been very much happening when certain decisions are supported by the largest ruling party or its individual members. For this reason, I think it would be right to accept an amendment that is clear, unequivocal and that regulates the issue further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! If the memory comes back at least a little bit, you will also be members of today's opposition, and then the ruling coalition will remember very quickly that we have been together in the past period, it is necessary to recognise together, both with your party and your then opposition, just before the current issue of property transformation. There was a possibility of ownership and transformation of this company into a share company. And at that time, we have already expressed a common interest in this House, a common interest on behalf of 900,000 insurers, members of the Mutual, that is, the fundamental purpose of the Mutual Society, i.e. those insurance undertakings, is to exercise the rights of compulsory health insurance with the additional health insurance. This was a fundamental interest. And that's why today it's hard to understand so many perceptions at the expense of today's coalition, how the lobbyist thinks about how to share this money within the mutual society. I think that our support for this law in the first reading is somehow guiding us to look for common goals in the best way that is clearly expressed here today, that the money we pay in the framework of mutual insurance premiums is in line with the intention. This is the fact that supplementary health insurance is paid out of these premiums. And it's interesting that every so long, periodically there are interests, how this money is to be shared, but not for the insured, but for the better management of the company, how to introduce other secured products, so how to work with this money. I would only remind you of a very interesting discussion when we adopted the law that introduced the compensatory schemes. How interesting the debate was, how the costs should be charged in the context of the transmission of data between doctors, pharmacies and the Mutual. It was very interesting to talk about the point where we said, "Hop, which money we're talking about, are we talking about money that's a real cost, or are we talking about money that's above it and will be left to someone?" We have had studies on how pharmacies have demonstrated that they are entitled to higher compensations, that doctors are justified and that the Mutual Pays as little as possible. When we found that it comes from the premium payments and the damages we have paid from this insurance company, we said very quickly, and then we pay too high premiums when we talk about the funds that are above the damage. The interest in how we should share these funds was quickly aroused. This, of course, seems a shame to me when we are all talking about the same goal of reading here, how we do not want to arrange this in order to prevent manipulation and to prevent the directors of regional units from making decisions in the future. I am aware, and I am also realistic, that by this provision, which speaks of this in the third paragraph, that members of the supervisory authorities and employees of the mutual insurance company, members of the supervisory authorities of insurance undertakings that carry out insurance operations in the same insurance line as the mutual insurance company, which is an essential contribution to this amendment of the two coalition partners, we do not want to prevent them from choosing again third on their behalf now, which means that, when we think about these matters, we need to know that we have made the first step, which is not necessarily enough to take a step, because this will also lead to the organisation of those interests, which will then very intensively defend the positions of the assembly. For a long time, we thought about whether this was an unconstitutional provision. Surely no one can give this answer, but I am sure that the National Assembly can, by substantiating the interest associated with the content and mission of the Mutual, make it possible to provide protection arrangements for the benefit of 900,000 insurers. I myself express my support for this amendment, this amended amendment, for a simple reason, because I believe that the content is not as different as the SDS amendment you are trying to sell to us here, so it is not a diametric difference and support of the lobby, but an amendment that follows three key objectives. First time. In order for the gathering of powers to take place in full transparency and for all those collecting powers to be made clear before the Assembly. Another time. That the collection of powers prevented members of management and supervision employed in this company and all insurance undertakings operating in the same insurance line. And the third time. There are also very clear rules on how conflicts of interest are defined in the law. A key change in relation to the amendment and the solution adopted by the Committee on Finance is that the insured person from a passive role transferred by the Committee to the active role that the insurer should withdraw the authorisation. We return this to give the authority to give authority to each congregation. So the interest of this amendment is an authority for each congregation. It is not, however, that in the case of powers that may last up to 12 months, the insurer should be the one who should be active and withdraw the mandate that he has already given. This is an essential difference, that activity is on the part of the one who wants to collect powers. And in this context, I find the amendment tabled by the two parliamentary groups to make sense. I will also be very pleased, given that in the second reading, if this amendment is adopted, it is still possible to improve until the third reading in order to assess at which point this amendment can be improved. But also when you're talking about attorneys being able to collect. The purpose is, if that word may disturb, to gather powers for each congregation individually and to be active in the one who collects, rather than in the case of the insurer who should withdraw the authorisation, if the congregation is convened within 12 months. That's why it makes sense for me to support this amendment. At the same time, to reject the allegations that this is a lobbyist activity, to derail the coalition's proposals, so that we can fog up the insurance companies again. I think the amendment is going in the opposite direction and the coalition's efforts are to protect 900,000 insurers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mr. Likar please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'm not gonna be able to see anything because I have a few miles in the National Assembly, and I don't know how it was decided in the previous reference. All I'm gonna say is my opinion. The mutual insurance company is, not likely, but certainly the most numerous, at least as far as the insurers are concerned, no matter who decides on their behalf or how the congregation is invoked, since their rights and interests can only be exercised by members or insurers in the congregation. The essence of the mutual is that decision-making belongs to members and not to the administration, as it is written in our explanation. Following the proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, the amendment would not contain this, which is why we have tabled a bill in the SDS Group. Therefore, with the amendment's proposal, we return to the original text. In my opinion, the SDS amendment needs to be supported, because, in fact, the only right and duty of members will be to pay membership and nothing else or more will be entitled to recapitalise it if the need for capital adequacy is demonstrated, which members or insurers must provide. I will therefore support the amendment of our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thanks again. Look, I'm going to try to justify somehow why the amendment we're proposing is better than the one proposed by LDS and Really. Not because he's proposing SDS, but because of the content itself. This amendment explicitly states: "If the Assembly is organised as a assembly of all members, the voting powers of the Assembly may only be collected for each assembly, which must be explicitly reflected in the mandate" and so on. Your revised amendment reads: "Authorities may collect powers for each assembly individually." That's an essential difference! It's a substantial difference. I don't know if this "may" got in the way or was "copy paste" and the computer didn't erase it, but that's a significant difference. And at the very least, what would be right is for this part to be rectified until the decision is made. Part two, paragraph three of your amendment. It was said by one of the previous debaters that, regardless of what is written in this amendment, we are aware, it was said that we cannot prevent them from doing so on behalf of those to whom we are preventing them from collecting powers. It is said that you would engage some entities who would do the same on their behalf, which they themselves should not do after this amendment if it was adopted. That's exactly why I told you to accept this amendment. And this amendment of ours is very clear on how this thing works. This amendment states that not all of these may state that I will not repeat, collect powers or be directly or indirectly involved in this process of collecting powers. It is then developed as to what constitutes direct involvement, it is the active participation of those who are prohibited from doing so and the indirect involvement that solves this hypothetical case, which has been mentioned previously, that we cannot prevent it, which says that indirect involvement of the gathering of powers is given when members of the board, members of the supervisory board, employees, members of the family, etc., have any influence or attempt to influence the collection of powers. And in this case, this case, which you have cited as impossible to solve, is resolved because it is also made very clear in the amendment that in the case of all these actions, which are very clearly listed in the amendment, all these powers are null and void. Not that they cannot be taken into account, which is also an essential difference. For we know what it means to have a mandate null and void, even when the congregation happens, it is still possible to challenge decisions taken on the basis of such powers. And look, really these solutions, which are proposed here, are cleaner, clearer, on the other hand simpler, and they solve the problem. If we accept this amendment or accept this amendment proposed by the LDS and indeed, it is clear that we will not solve the problem. Even one of the cosigners of this amendment admitted this because they still say that there is a hypothetical likelihood that this will happen. But our interest is, our common interest, as we heard it, to solve this problem. What is this Mutual Purpose for? It is probably not intended for those sitting on the chairs of the board of directors, etc., which is probably intended to increase the health care of all of us. This is the essential and fundamental purpose. Otherwise, if we believe that these anomalies, that a handful of people decide how and how this insurance company will be managed, and that all these many insurers do not have a word, then it is better to make a different decision to make a more radical decision. We do not need such an institution, we provide a higher level of healthcare without additional voluntary insurance in a different way and the problem will be solved. However, if our intention is to regulate this area, then I propose that we adopt solutions that are clean and those proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party go in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you. I see interest after the debate. I'm opening the application. Mr. Yuri Franco, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. I am following this debate with great interest and, in fact, I note that the objective of the two amendments is to limit the possibilities of the administration or employees and to increase the guarantees that they will be taken into account primarily or exclusively of the interests of the insurers, since the Mutual is the type of insurance undertaking that requires it. In our amendment proposal, we are more appropriately clarifying some aspects. And what Cernač had previously identified as inadequacy, the word "may" is not, in fact, because it is clearly stated in this paragraph that voting rights are exercised on the basis of the powers gathered. It is clear, then, that those responsible may collect credentials for each congregation individually. This may refer to the fact that if you are not authorised, of course no one can ask for it. If there is a vote with the power to vote, this should be regulated. The word itself does not prejudge anything, it does not take away any clarity from this dictatorship. Thus, I see no reason why we should not actually support the amendment that we have tabled, because it is an actual more specific dictatorship that guarantees the interests in essence of those directly interested in this insurance undertaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First, a comment on what the word "may" means in the second sentence of paragraph 1. It doesn't mean anything if we don't read it. It doesn't mean anything. [[...]] Among other things, it states that it should also include a proposal from the voting officer for individual proposals for decisions to be reasoned in the mandate. It is said that a member of the Mutual, who signs the authorisation, knows what he gives as a task to the authorising officer. Another time. In the ninth paragraph of this Article, since the whole article of the amendments as a whole is written, it is stated that the powers collected contrary to the provisions laid down in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, which do not contain the instructions of the members to vote in the Assembly of the Society, cannot be exercised. What does that mean? This means that the voting instructions are always linked to a single assembly. However, there cannot be ten assemblies with the same vote, with the same agenda. So, dear gentlemen, this word "may" is completely irrelevant. Secondly, what I would like to say is that I would like to be somewhat ironic by the constant repetition of why even years ago we established the Mutual. Not to protect the interests of the insured, but it was created for only one reason: it is that at that time we could not and should not have raised the rates, the insurance rates for compulsory health insurance and we are, let's say, a state, a foreign branch of the compulsory insurance company to achieve an increased amount, an increased health activity income, so that we can even guarantee the level of health services that we have been accustomed to before. The health insurance company has had increasing and increasing losses, compulsory health insurance cannot and should not have increased both employers and employees, and we have, of course, established a Mutual. Later, two other insurance companies opened up a new type of insurance: first Adriatic, it was not mutual insurance, but pure normal insurance, which is an additional health insurance, as in Mutuals, and a few years later also Triglav. I think that talking and "painting" people that the Mutual was established for the love of the insured is, of course, somewhat unusual. The truth in politics is one of the main points of view, so please do not speak, but this law protects the interests of the current members of the insurance company. [[...]] And it is not true that this is the largest number of members of an insurance company. The maximum number of members of the insurance company is in the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. There is the largest number of members of an insurance company where we are all insured, with pensioners worth, we are members of the largest insurance company with the largest number of members, where we are, interestingly, represented by trade unions, government, association of pensioners' societies and I don't know who else. So, no voting rights, we're in that insurance company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Blackach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I didn't hear anyone in this room say that the Mutual was established for the love of the insured. No one. However, I have heard about the fact that it was not established for the management to distribute enormous prizes and take care of its own interests, but to care for the extension of the healthcare coverage of these 900,000 insurers. Second. The word "may" is very important. It is particularly important in the legislative text. Just like an even shorter word that only has two letters, "le." And if, in your amendment, instead of the phrase "authors can collect powers for each assembly individually," it said, "authors can only collect powers for each assembly individually," there would be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you. I see a desire to discuss it. I'm opening the application. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Comrade Chernač, we have read the texts of both the law and the amendments, and it is not correct to say that the text of our amendment does not include the text that you quoted. I say clearly, in the third paragraph of the amendment, who and in what way should not be present in the context of the assembly of powers. Members of the supervisory authorities and employees of the company, members of the management and supervision bodies of insurance undertakings operating in the same insurance type as the mutual insurance company and subsidiaries or certain companies - and now what you are saying is that we do not include - they must not collect powers, be involved in the organised collection of powers or act as the authorising officer for the exercise of voting rights at the mutual insurance assembly organised in the assembly of all members. And you also have this text in paragraph 3. And if you then read paragraph 9, we also make it clear that the powers collected in contravention of the provisions laid down in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, which do not contain instructions to members to vote in the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly, cannot be exercised by voting rights. The texts of the amendments go in the same direction and, in fact, when I read, in the same words, with the same content. Therefore, inclusion shall be avoided either directly or indirectly. And if this is established, such a vote in the Assembly shall be considered impossible. It is therefore not possible to exercise voting rights. It therefore seems right to me in relation to the two amendments that both amendments are following this objective. And it is not true that, for example, an amendment tabled by two coalition parliamentary groups would not include this. Of course, it seems very important to me to say this, since this is also very important for the understanding of activities before and during the congregation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Can I help you? I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, you'd better sign up. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I wanted to replicate Mr. Germich because he addressed me directly in his implementation. I have already said at the outset, if it is the intention, and from the intention of one and the other amendments, both the LDS and Zares amendments as well as our amendment, it turns out that the aim is to resolve the problem, I see no reason why the problem should not be resolved simply, transparently and in such a way that this provision will also have an effect in practice. And I drew attention to the details that are very important in this action and said that in our amendment there is in no uncertain, very clear way an issue of direct, indirect involvement in the collection of powers that can be disputed in individual cases. What you said, Mr. Germich, but you said yourself, I just repeated your words. You yourself said in your previous implementation that you are aware that these provisions do not prevent us from doing so third. That's what you said yourself, and I've only repeated your words. You've probably read later on what the dictates of this amendment are and you've repeated it here. However, the difference, which is essential to these powers and to their effect, is of a legal nature. After our amendment, they're worthless. In your opinion, voting rights cannot be exercised. You will agree that there is a fundamental difference, for nullity means that such a decision can be challenged even after the congregation has finished. In your case, that won't be possible. But we do know that anything will happen because of the deadlines that are relatively short. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is only the common interest of all of us not to leave the decision-making on behalf of 900 000 insured individuals who are paid by this Mutual and who work there. They are obliged to pursue the interests of these 900,000 insurers, not their own. And I propose that we really accept such an amendment and so make a decision that will prevent such behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you. I can still see the desire for a debate. Please sign up. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u93	In this debate it can be understood that this is for the good of all those we are discussing. But that proverb, which says that even the path to hell is pressed for good purposes, is also true, and in this case in particular. The point is, however, that everything has been going through, as I said before, since March of the month when we amended the Insurance Act, there was a desire to arrange for the management of the Mutual to be arranged differently, in particular by citing the Assembly and so forth. In this debate, I am particularly disturbed by the fact that all potential collectors of powers are somehow weak, have bad intentions, will exploit something that is normal both under the Company Act when it comes to companies, in other cases for other rights they have, to be owners, insurers, members and the like. I'd be afraid of it, but somehow I'd be stuck with it. If our purpose is noble, it is to arrange for the transparency of the exercise of the rights of the insured members in particular, then it must also be believed that not all those who are potential collectors and organize the work of the congregation are also potentially weak and have bad intentions. For this reason, the question here is whether the employees, who are also members, I suppose that at least those who are employed are members, are the insurers of this insurance undertaking, in which they work, which, of course, would be logical and, in my opinion, also unconstitutional, if someone may own a share, if they may own some right in a company, an economic society that should not participate in the decision-making process. However, it can be understood in the basic text that it is also an active role for a member and an insurer to react when he receives a proposal for conclusions to allow him to change his decision if he is not satisfied with something. But he can also say, "I will give one year to a lady or a gentleman, because I fully trust him with this mandate and have him decide on my behalf to carry out this insurance company." What bothers me in these debates is, in fact, that they are crucial throughout the whole phase, so it sounds, so it is to understand all those who are rooting for one or another amendment. I think that the basic text in the law is very transparent, clear and does not exclude employees or those who are also interested, but prevents any abuse because things must be done transparently, transparently, they must be disclosed. I'm actually afraid of those thirds, five who will organize themselves, gather themselves, come in and hire some agents, some, say, security agencies or there employed people who have daily contact with the most people, if they say so, and then they'll come and do it. But I don't want to attribute bad intentions to anyone, but I'm sure after all that one or the other amendment, whichever amendment is adopted, is going to move some things in a direction so that real insurers can influence. I don’t know why it was so small an interest so far that I never gave myself any authority, nor did anyone ask me to give it to him, nor did I want to find someone who collected powers to participate in the congregation. I don't know, it's probably 90% of us, given our participation in the congregations. Of course, that's not good. If this law is to encourage or encourage some interest of the insured to participate actively in the drafting of decisions and also to gather an agent who will actually represent his or her interest, then that is the purpose for which we accept it. I also agree with those who say that innovation, when it comes to finding a path, how to exercise a right or play something to make it easier to achieve a goal, is boundless. And here, at least in such a modest complement, if I may call it that, this law, is the question of if we can predict all situations. Or where the situation of unconstitutionality or unconstitutionality, as it seems, will occur, it is likely that those who have a particular interest in testing it will also do so before the courts. And that's no particular problem. But basically I believe and I want everyone sitting here to leave this room, because I have to say that when the marriage was at first reading, I was very loud to support it and that we are trying together to make regulations that will work in a direction that is always reported. The wrong impression would be that we argued here for some feud that someone is defending, that someone is attacking, one likes one director, another boss or something. In my opinion, we can also overcome this by possible harmonisation then in the third reading, if that is the case, of course. And I have no doubt that this is the goal. But forcefully, you know, there's nothing going on anyway, and in this case, it probably won't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of a half-hour vote after the end of agenda 14 or at the latest at 21.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Point of the agenda - This is on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Kamnar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members! The Law on the legal successors of authorised investment firms entered into force on 31 June 2007 and settled the question concerning the shares companies which are the legal successors of authorised investment companies. The law was introduced very early in the Constitutional Review initiative, practically by all affected persons, requiring an assessment of the provisions of the whole law with particular emphasis on Articles 2 and 13. In December last year, the Constitutional Court issued a decision establishing that Article 2 of the Act is contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution, in the sense that it contains a lack of precise determination in which cases, when and at the expense of which an individual may receive compensation when withdrawing from the securities market. At the same time, the Constitutional Court also ruled in its decision that the other provisions of the law were not contrary to the Constitution. It ordered the National Assembly to amend the law by 23 June of this year and to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. There is therefore before you an amendment to the law to ensure compliance of the current law with the Constitution. This is an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the current law, which specifies in more detail who must offer and pay the shareholders an adequate amount of money, from which resources and by which shareholder. An amendment was adopted on the Committee on Finance, which improves the clarity of the new provision and is therefore supported by the Government. The proposal for a law such as those on the benches follows fully the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which points out that the general provision of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is not sufficient for the cases that apply to shareholders of authorised investment companies, since in this case they are less-educated investors and therefore need to be provided with greater legal certainty for them. In this way, the law provides that the right to claim a retirement allowance for each shareholder is linked not only to shareholders who attend the congregation but also to those who do not attend. Furthermore, it also specifies exactly which means and at what level. I suggest you adopt the law in the text given to you by the home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you. The proposal for a law is to be considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body, and I give the vice-president the floor. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 5th meeting, on 7 May, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 21st meeting on 10 April that the law in question should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which taught the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It follows from the opinion transmitted that the pursuit of the basic purpose of the amendment submitted, or the harmonisation of the text of the second paragraph of Article 4 with the decision of the Constitutional Court in its resolution, raises certain legal questions. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants to the legislative proposal within a time limit. Representatives and representatives from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The main purpose of the amendment submitted is to eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the finding of the Constitutional Court that the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 4 are unclear and thus in breach of Article 2(2) of the Constitution. In so doing, the Constitutional Court finds that, in the event of the repeal of Article 4, second paragraph, in the event of the voluntary withdrawal of the shares of the company, the successors from trading apply the provisions of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and this would lead to a situation which would be contrary to the legislator's intention. It is also the right of small shareholders of the successor companies to make a reasonable allowance for their shares even if the shareholders' assemblies do not participate and do not object to the decision to withdraw shares from the organised market. On this basis, the text submitted by amending paragraph 2 of Article 4 shall specify in more detail who must offer and pay the shareholders an appropriate allowance, from which resources and from which shareholders. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee was informed of the initiative of the coalition SD, DeSUS, LDS and, indeed, of the amendment proposals of the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 1 and 2 of the legislative proposal, is reflected in the follow-up to this report. In the context of the opening of the second hearing at the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed the fundamental comment on the apparent distinction between the exclusion model of minority shareholders and the withdrawal model under the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. It was essentially a problematic reference to Article 385, which is at the same time a red thread to explain the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes both adopted amendments, is prepared. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good-bye, everyone. The main solution of the law is the elimination of factual inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to Article 4, paragraph 2, and Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Rights of the Successors of Authorised Investment Companies. The Constitutional Court found in the decision that paragraphs 2 and 4 were inconsistent with Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since it is unclear whether the law is legal. The Constitutional Court further found that, in the event of the repeal of Article 4(2) of the Act, the provisions of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments apply to cases of voluntary withdrawal of shares of subsidiaries from trading, thereby creating a situation where, contrary to the legislator's intention, the rights of small shareholders, the successors to the appropriate remittances for their shares, even if the shareholders' assemblies do not participate and do not object to the decision to withdraw shares from the organised market. We foresee that, for this reason, the Constitutional Court has ordered the legislator, the National Assembly, to specify by 23 June 2009, having regard to the protection of the interests of small shareholders of the successor companies, in Article 4, paragraph 2, who must pay the shareholders the appropriate amount of money from which the shareholders have the resources. With everyone or just some? The amendment to the second paragraph of Article 4 thus specifies in more detail who must offer and pay the shareholders adequate cash disposals, from which resources and from which shareholders. On the basis of the new second paragraph of Article 4, it is possible to add protection to small shareholders who did not vote in favour of the decision to withdraw the shares of the successor in the organised market or were not present at the assembly. As a result, they are allowed to require companies to take over shares for payment of the appropriate money after three months of publication of the registration of the decision in the Registry. In the absence of a proposed decision, small shareholders could not sell shares in a closed company. In order to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Court and the additional protection of small shareholders, the Social Democrats Group will support amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary, honourable Member, honourable Members! The main purpose of the amendments and the amendment of the law is to eliminate inconsistencies with the Constitution. On the basis of the findings of the Constitutional Court that the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 4 of the Law on the legal successors of authorised investment firms are unclear and thus inconsistent with Article 2 of the Constitution. It is the right of small shareholders of the successor companies to make a reasonable allowance for their shares even if they do not participate and do not object to a decision to withdraw shares from the organised market. On this basis, the proposed text of the amendment to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Authorised Investment Companies specifies in more detail who must offer and pay to shareholders adequate cash disposals, from which funds and to which shareholders. The proposed law is legally appropriate because it eliminates ambiguity or legal issue. In the SDS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u103	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The DeSUS Group has the following opinion on the proposal for a law amending the law on the administrative successors of authorised investment companies. The whole law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies has been subject to a constitutional review, as several constitutionally motivated individuals considered that it had been established in non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Last year, i.e. in December, the Constitutional Court repealed Article 4, paragraph 4, whereas for the second paragraph of the same Article it found unconstitutional and ordered the National Assembly to harmonise this non-constitutionality within six months. In short, the fact that this part of the law governing voluntary withdrawals of shares from the company of the successors from trading is unclear, which could lead to a situation contrary to the legislator's purpose, is for the right of the small shareholders of the successors to a suitable retirement for their shares even if the shareholders' assembly does not participate and does not object to the decision to withdraw shares from the organised market. The fact is that this law must be guided by the special protection of smaller shareholders, i.e. investors from certified privatisation, because they are less educated and poorly informed investors who have generally not become shareholders of companies of their own volition. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that the congregations would attend and vote against the withdrawal decision. The latter, however, would deprive them of the right to a reasonable amount of money. It is our duty to remove this uncertainty, i.e. the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. In doing so, we must pay particular attention to the protection of the interests of small shareholders of the successor company, and to a more precise definition of who has to pay the shareholders an adequate amount of money, from which resources and from which shareholders. Members of the DeSUS believe that the proposed amendment of the laws on the legal successors of authorised investment companies has adequately eliminated this non-compliance and we will therefore support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said about the proposal for a law amending the law on legal heirs. We know that this law is actually written to protect minority shareholders. We know that this proposal for a law amending is a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court, in conjunction with the second paragraph and the fourth paragraph. It is important that this proposal for a law amending the law on successions takes into account the principle of the protection of thousands of small investors and the principle of legal certainty. This proposal will remove the inconsistencies with the Constitution. The second paragraph of Article 1 is also important for the Slovenian National Party, where it is quite clear that a shareholder who owns shares of a company representing at least nine tenths of the basic capital and who votes in favour of a decision on the withdrawal from trading in an organised market owes the remaining shareholders, within three months of the decision on the withdrawal from trading, to offer a reasonable amount of money to be paid immediately after the decision has been entered into, immediately after the review, immediately following the completion of the trial. The Slovenian national party in this second paragraph of Article 1 particularly likes this immediately. I hope he respects himself. The proposal for a law amending the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies, which is being treated in the short term, will also be supported by the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The main purpose of the adoption of the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies was to define the status of successor companies as public companies under the law governing the securities market. Such an arrangement ensures greater transparency in the operations of these companies and is in the interest of protecting minority shareholders. On the basis of the constitutional assessment initiative, the Constitutional Court has decided that certain parts of the law are inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The law before us removes this disagreement because it specifies the rights of small shareholders in the event of the voluntary withdrawal of the shares of the successors from the organised market when they were not present at the assembly and did not object to the withdrawal decision. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you. I conclude the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market of Financial Institutions. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Kamnar Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. The law before you is to bring the acquis of the European Community into Slovenian law. This is a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on procedural rules and evaluation criteria for the careful assessment of the acquisition and increase of shares in the financial sector, aimed at cross-border harmonisation of procedures for the authorisation of qualified shares in credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings and investment firms. The content of the Directive has already been introduced into the Slovenian legal order, in the field of the Banking Act and the Insurance Act, which you adopted last month. The bill also addresses some of the shortcomings in the law itself, which are editorial in nature, or the improvement of the text, which will lead to better application of the legal provisions. The current system of prudential supervision in the European Union is based on the principle of responsibility of the competent authorities of the home Member State. The final decision on the authorisation to acquire a qualified share shall be taken by the supervisory authority of the Member State in which the institution whose share is acquired is established. The proposal does not modify the current regime, but changes the procedures and criteria that the competent supervisory authorities must or may verify in assessing the suitability of the qualified share obtained. The rules currently in force do not provide for the certainty of the criteria for the assessment of safe and prudential business in relation to the revised acquisition or increase of the share, nor of the procedures for their use. The objectives of the law are to enable cross-border harmonisation of procedures for authorising the acquisition of a qualified share, to simplify the criteria and procedures for acquiring or increasing a qualified share in investment firms, to improve legal certainty, clarity and transparency of the control procedure for the acquisition or increase of shares, to facilitate cooperation between the potential manager of the alternative legal system and the clearing company, and to establish, in practice, the applicable criteria for determining the liability of brokerage houses for investor claims. The draft law was somewhat supplemented on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Government supports all the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and proposes that you adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that one more time, Chairman. Hello, everyone! The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body at its 5th session, on 7 May 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to Articles 4, 5, 9, 10, 18, 27, 30, 32 and 33 and which are largely taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. None of the qualified applicants tabled amendments to the proposed law within the time limit. In its opening statement, the representative of the proposed law stressed that the Government supported all amendments prepared on the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, which the Committee was to adopt in its amendments, as they addressed the shortcomings of the individual provisions of the proposed law. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative drew attention to a comment on Article 30, which had not been taken into account in the preparation of the Committee's amendments. The comments relate to the questionability of changing the existing criterion for determining the share of the guaranteed role of the individual stock brokering company. The existing criteria, the sum of guaranteed deposits, are intended to replace the new criterion, the number of customers. The question is whether the revised criterion for determining the share of an individual stock exchange company in the application system would be consistent with the principle of equality. The Service further examined this issue in cooperation with the representatives of the proposed law as well as on the basis of an additional comparative and legal review. In its view, it can be found that these shares are difficult or almost impossible to determine in the manner provided for in the applicable law, i.e. according to the current criterion. The adopted and extended practice in the European Union is therefore to take account of the number of individuals or parties in a company as some relatively solid criterion for determining the share. The service therefore did not insist on this being the most extensive comment in the context of its opinion on the law submitted. However, from the point of view of terminology, it is suggested that, in the context of the next amendment to the law on the market in financial instruments, the guarantee system may be transformed into a system of compensation or compensation. The provisions of Chapter 12 of the Act implement the Directive on compensation and compensation schemes rather than guarantee schemes. With regard to the amendments drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Office, her representative stressed that they took due account of the comments made to each article of the draft law. The Committee did not discuss the individual articles and, pursuant to Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it drafted and adopted its amendments to Articles 4, 5, 10, 18, 27, 32 and 33. The Committee adopted all the articles of the draft law below and the amendments adopted are included in the text of the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u113	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, the rest are present! The reason for the amendment of the law is, according to the proposaler, in the first place, the transposition of European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. This gives rise to directives aimed at cross-border harmonisation of procedures to authorise the acquisition of qualified shares in credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings and investment firms. The proposal for amendments to the law is intended to simplify the criteria and procedures for acquiring or increasing the qualified share in non-investment firms, which is an additional step towards reducing administrative barriers and fully integrating the capital market. The proposal also introduces a closed list of criteria on the basis of which the eligibility and adequacy of the beneficiary of the qualified share is assessed. Since it is mainly a matter of transposing directives, in some way a technical amendment to the law, we support this change in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u114	Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u115	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and fellow Members. The European Union Directive, which aims at cross-border harmonisation of the procedure for authorising the acquisition of qualified shares in credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance and investment firms, requires our country to harmonise its internal legislation in accordance with its guidelines, which is the main reason for amending the law on the market in financial instruments. It is therefore a matter of simplifying the criteria and procedures in the event of acquisition or increase of qualified shares of investment firms, which, according to our assessment, will also help to reduce bureaucratic barriers and, of course, to unify capital market operations in all Member States of the European Union. Members of the DeSUS believe that the guidelines for the directive are appropriately included in the proposed amendment. The supplementary proposal shall also take into account any comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Thus, the proposal at this point is also coordinated and supported by DeSUS Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much for speaking again, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. That's what I'm gonna say. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, of course, we understand the intention to align Slovenia's legal order with the directives of the European Union and, in general, to read first the objectives and principles of the laws I read. I am also happy to take a look at the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Sometimes, though, if time permits, I also like to look at certain articles of the law. I'm going to say it fair and square. At the time of the review of this law, which is in line with the European Directive, I only understood after reading that I didn't understand anything. What do I mean by that? By doing so, I am giving an opinion and an assessment that this law is so written as it is, as we are now talking about, very abstract. This is my personal opinion, which is why, of course, I will, of course, and also my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, decide whether or not to adopt this law in my own conscience. A lot of the content of this law goes into the banking law. I can't tell if that's a good thing or not, I can't honestly say that I can't judge. But the fact is that this content, so this reference to the Banking Act, makes this law, which we are now talking about, very imprecise. I can honestly say, on my behalf and on behalf of some of my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, that this law is actually written for regulation, harmonisation with the directives, that it is not written to be used by some cunning lawyers or others. However, I do not believe that what the aim of the law is to improve the legal certainty, clarity and transparency of the control procedure for obtaining or increasing the ownership of shares in the financial instruments market. I'm saying, I'm sure that's not the case. That the existing law is better and that it already contains all this and is more transparent and more reasonable. I told my belief that I had gone through it on purpose, that after twice reading it, I realized that I understood that I didn’t understand anything. For me, it's abstract, it's opaque, it's worse than the last one, and I'm afraid it has some hidden goals and purposes. I will not personally support this law and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will decide on their own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The main reason for amending and supplementing the law is the transposition of European directives into the Slovenian legal order, aimed at cross-border harmonisation of procedures to authorise the acquisition of qualified shares in credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings and investment firms. This represents an additional step towards reducing administrative barriers and fully integrating the capital market. The mergers and mergers of undertakings in the area of financial harmonisation within a Member State and in cross-border mergers represent a number of advantages such as improving the allocation of capital between the Member States of the European Union, achieving economies of scale, creating new business opportunities, opportunities, creating new innovative financial products and improving competitiveness. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Greetings from the Secretary of State and colleagues from the Ministry. Of course, we have a demanding, professional law ahead of us, and I only hope that the experts, as my colleague Bogdan has already mentioned, had a happy hand in this. For only a few consider amendments and the completion of such a large law as the Market in Financial Instruments Act, and the consequences can be extremely difficult and important. Why attention is so little is certainly due to the fact that its expertise, complexity and wider ignorance of the complex capital markets of this knowledge among us Members, and in our society is not very much. If we may say so, then this area is certainly subject to a Latin proverb that says "ignorantia iuris nocturnal" not knowing the right to harm." I hope that there will not be much in practice in translating this directive and in this case there will be no such problems in our law. Otherwise, with the proposed amendment, we are amending a relatively new law on the market in financial instruments, which in 2007 also attempted to eliminate the various transitional features of the Slovenian capital market and to ensure greater security, particularly for small investors. By means of the proposed amendment to the Slovenian legal order, we transpose a directive regulating cross-border harmonisation of procedures to authorise the acquisition of a qualified share in credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings and investment firms. The Government, as the proposer, argues that the purpose of the amendment under consideration is to improve the legal certainty, clarity and transparency of the supervisory approval procedure in the event of the acquisition or increase of shares in the financial instruments market, as well as to eliminate the editorial and other inconsistencies of the individual provisions and to regulate the individual provisions of the law so that they become useful in practice. For example, the alternative settlement system manager and the membership of the clearing depository company, insurance of professional liability and so on. Among the effects of the implementation of the amendment under consideration, we would like to highlight the following: allowing cross-border harmonisation of procedures for the approval of qualified shares in credit institutions - insurance companies, reinsurance companies, investment firms. Other: unification of acquisition criteria and procedures or an increase in the qualified share. Third point, also very important, reduction of administrative barriers. Fourthly, increase the integration of the capital market. The next important point is to improve legal certainty, clarity and transparency of the supervisory authorisation procedure when acquiring or increasing the holding of shares in the financial instruments market. And last but not least, facilitating cooperation between the potential administrator of the alternative settlement system and the clearing company. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, despite some concerns and awareness that the solution is probably not ideal, we agree that as a criterion for determining the guarantee obligation for the guaranteed claims of individual stock brokering companies, the number of customers of the stock brokering company is used, simply because it is not necessary to detect hot water again because it is an extended practice in other Member States of the European Union, which has certainly more tradition and more knowledge in this area. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law on the market for financial instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you. Mrs Breda Pečan will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll give it to everyone. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Instruments Market Act, as the transposition or alignment of our acquis with the European Union Directive allows, in fact, the opening of our financial instruments market for other members of the European Union first. In addition, it simplifies and reduces procedures for acquiring or increasing a qualified share and thus improves the legal certainty, clarity and transparency of the control procedure for obtaining or increasing the ownership of shares. More importantly, it seems to us that it is a much simpler and even shorter procedure if bankruptcy or forced liquidation of one of the stock exchanges, companies and that, as criteria for determining the guarantee or guarantee share, is used instead of the financial power of the individual stock brokering company in order to use the number of members of the stock brokerage company, which is more quickly available and also time-consuming, which is why those who are temporarily entitled to the minimum net guarantee in fact, that is a maximum of twenty thousand euro, can come to their right more quickly if the possibility of providing these funds is possible, and in this way also possible problems that may arise. Luckily, they haven't been here yet, as far as I know. As a result, this law can be a major step forward for the security of investment on our stock exchange and in stock exchange companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to seven. Dot of the Day - This is to the contrary a bill on amendments to the excise laws. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Kamnar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members. The law is one of the laws that is part of a set of antichrist laws. The point is that with it we want to achieve a more favourable position for motorists. If you'll let me explain a little bit more. In this year, the government has slightly changed excise policies for some of the reasons that we have already explained to you in adopting the national budget balance. These excise duties mean a slower fall in fuel prices than they would if excise duties did not increase. Nevertheless, the current fuel prices in our country are still much lower than the average prices in last year. If oil derivatives prices rise, of course these prices will no longer be lower, but the government will probably react with a different excise policy. However, in the course of the economic crisis, activity in the field of auto-transport activities and operating conditions has also deteriorated in this area and the Government has decided to propose reimbursement of excise duty to motor vehicles, namely freight vehicles with a gross mass of 7 and a half tonnes and more and used for the transport of goods and buses operating in category M2 and M3 and used for regular or temporary transport of passengers. Until now, refunds could be required up to 50%, only those end-users who spoke to machines and devices outside public roads, to agricultural machinery or static working machines. European legislation provides for the possibility of reducing excise duties or returning excise duties for other purposes, i.e. purposes in the case of commercial use, but only to a level not below 302 euros per thousand litres of speech. This is therefore the upper limit to which excise duty may be further reduced for these purposes. The proposal before you is to reduce or refund excise duties by a maximum of EUR 130 per 1,000 litres, and we anticipate that this solution will make an important contribution to improving the situation of motorists. The total estimated value of excise duty, which means, in fact, the additional auto-transport revenue, amounts to around €39 million. I propose that the draft law, as supplemented by the Committee on Finance, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At its 11th urgent meeting on 14 May 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 23rd meeting on 11 May 2009. The main objective of the text under consideration is to reduce the excise duty on gas oil, which is evidently used for motor vehicles for commercial use or freight vehicles with a total gross mass of 7.5 tonnes or more and which are used for the transport of goods and vehicles belonging to the category M2 or M3 and used for the regular or occasional transport of passengers, and to comply in the field with the regulation of European legislation. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which provided a concrete comment on Article 2 of the legislative proposal. Article 2 of the legislative proposal was adopted by qualified applicants - mag. Radovan Žerjav and the SDS Group of Members - tabled two additions. In the debate, members of the Committee with shared opinions, with particular emphasis on the necessary comprehensive approach to addressing the problem identified, particularly in the agricultural field exposed, focused on the two amendments tabled. Specifically, in the work for the percentage increase in excise duty to energy buyers who are used to drive agricultural and forestry mechanisms, including tractors from the current 50% to 75% and 100% of the refund of excise duty. These proposals were not supported by the Government and were not accepted by the Committee. In the context of the working material at the meeting itself, the Committee took note of the proposal for amendments to Article 2 of the legislative proposal drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and of the proposal to include the date of the directive in view of the nominal integrity of the text adopted by the Committee at the time of its consideration. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes that amendment, has been prepared as an integral part of the report on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor to present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. The proposed Act amending the Law on excise duty allows for a reduction of the excise duty on gas oil, which is evidently used to drive motor vehicles for commercial use. This is the case for vehicles used for the carriage of goods with a gross mass of 7,5 tonnes or more and for vehicles belonging to category M2 or M3 which are used for the regular or occasional carriage of passengers. In addition to that amendment to the Act, the provisions of Council Regulation 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the provisions of Commission Regulation 1031/2008 on the Common Customs Tariff are summarised. A Member State may, in accordance with Council Directive 2003/96 governing the taxation of energy products, allow it to determine, in accordance with its economic policy, a different rate of excise gas for the purpose of use, whether it is commercial or non-commercial. In doing so, the Member State must respect the minimum excise duty for commercial purposes, which must not be less than 302 euros or EUR 330 per 1,000 litres of gas oil from 1 January 2010. In addition to that proposed law, it provides for the right to apply the lower excise duty by way of reimbursement and the procedures for reimbursement of excise duty. We will support the proposed law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u131	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, distinguished representatives of the Government and Members. Members of the DeSUS will support the proposed reduction in the excise duty on gas oil purchased for commercial purposes. The proposaler, according to our assessment, has made appropriate substantive solutions that include a precisely defined purpose of consumption for which the refund of already paid excise duty may be applied. Eligibility of all carriers, including from other Member States of the European Union and the EFTA States, the procedure for lodging claims by beneficiaries and the procedure of the competent authority of Curs, adequate control of refunds and storage of documentation. We believe that the provisions have been properly designed, as the beneficiaries of the refund of excise duty on gas oil can actually apply for the month of June this year, which is certainly a positive measure to address the financial and economic crisis in the road transport sector. The novel will, however, result in a budget deficit of EUR 38.74 million, which will be covered by other public funds. One possibility of covering this gap was the adoption at the March meeting of a novelty of the same basic law when we adopted an increase in excise duty on tobacco products. This account provides for an additional EUR 14 million. However, we were disturbed by the assessment of the financial implications of this proposal. In fact, the original text estimated the drop to EUR 16.5 million under the same assumptions, i.e. with the same reduction in excise duty and taking into account the same number of registered buses and trucks with a permissible weight of up to 7.5 tonnes. Therefore, we expect the proponents or the government to explain the reason for such a large deduction. Notwithstanding the support expressed to reduce excise duties on gas oil, we cannot remain indifferent and not comment on the way the Government works. The DeSUS Group has repeatedly pointed out non-systemic, incomplete proposals for laws coming into the National Assembly, as changes relate to just a few articles, similar to the amendment of the excise law, since we have recently addressed this law and adopted an increase in excise duty on tobacco products. Now we've got him back in front of us. We believe that it would be more useful and I think that most Members agree with this, that a more comprehensive approach to the problematic solutions of the laws in force is being developed and that a proposal for a novel will be the basis for a constructive and consensual and, above all, a comprehensive solution to a law. However, the mode of action taken by the applicant in the basic excise law certainly does not speak in favour of declaring savings in public finances or in the interest of saving the time of both the executive and the legislative branches of government. In short, let this thought be understood not so much in the direction of criticism, but in the direction of the proposal for advance action and action, as this will save us much time and also budget money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thanks again for saying that. Again, secretary, coworkers, friends, colleagues welcome. We will support the excise law in the Slovenian National Party. True, it is one of the laws that are antichrist and will help. At the same time, it is worth noting that it was very varied and interesting on the working body, even though we were in a small room where we heard quite a few truths. These are that, as I recall, with proposals and amendments on the labour force, we have also been granted the right to reimbursement of 50% of the excise duty to 75%. An interesting statement was - and which is fair and right and I think is worth mentioning - this is: why don't we allow people to make good use of gas oil; so that they have less excise duty when they get more refunded than they do what many do to buy fuel oil because it is cheaper, and then they use it for the gas environment. That's the truth. And this is one of the measures by which the state prevents, in a belligerent way, "petrigaria" or "petrifying" or exploiting this country. It is also right that this law actually tells us what the negative impact on the budget is, but I think that with the rebalancing, this negative effect can also be balanced on the positive. I had a great deal of dilemma when proposing an amendment from a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party, who proposed that instead of 50 % of the refund on excise duty on farmers, I would have made it possible to refund 100% of the excise duty, but in listening to the opinions of other colleagues and colleagues of the Labour Committee, I also considered that it was the fairest and most appropriate thing that was adopted with the amendment, namely that it was a 75% return on excise duty. As has already been said, it is good that this is one very specific law, which is an anti-crisis law, which we have talked about very briefly, and yet we expect more such laws. We will therefore be happy to support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav will give the opinion of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties. Given the current economic situation and the situation, it is essential to assist Slovenian motorists and to appropriately reduce the excise duty on diesel fuel used to drive motor vehicles. Such a measure will have a direct impact on road transport by reducing the cost of transport of goods and passengers and consequently enhancing the competitiveness of this sector in the European and Economic Area. We support this move by the Government in the Slovenian People's Party because we think it is good. However, as usual, unfortunately, even in this case the Slovenian government does not have any interest in the issue of agriculture, or is obviously, in its opinion in Slovenian agriculture, all the flowers are sown. It is clear from the explanation of the bill before us that the Slovenian government is a bit of a care in agriculture. This is one of the measures from the package proposed by the Government to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia. If the Government also had in mind the difficult situation of Slovenian agriculture in the time of this economic crisis, it would also try to resolve the situation in this area with all the measures it proposes. This is evident in this bill, when Slovenian agriculture could be burdened in the exact same article, in which this burden is burdened by Slovenian motorists. Only after asking the Prime Minister of the Government about the failure to act for Slovenian agriculture will the coalition be forced to table an amendment, in response to the Prime Minister's promise to increase the reimbursement of excise duties from 50 per cent to 70%, which will also give effect to the President's promise. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already proposed an increase in the reimbursement of excise duties on agricultural fuel, and you have rejected us coalition Members without arguments when you could have already proposed 70%. In the parliamentary group, we have also tabled an amendment to this meeting of the National Assembly for a 100% refund of excise duty on fuel in agriculture. If we didn't, we're sure your proposal wouldn't be. The law will be supported by Members of the SLS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Once again, welcome to the Ministry. The Law on Excise is an important law, primarily because it answers a number of indications and questions that the Government does not act counter-crisisly, not to act. This is one of the many answers to a specific question that will eventually allow all those involved in transport and agriculture to remain in their pocket for some other purpose and investment. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore support the amendment of the law, and we are particularly pleased that this time it is not about raising but about reducing excise duties, of course in accordance with European rules. The Energy Directive provides for the separation of excise duty on gas oil from commercial and non-commercial purposes and leaves the decision to each Member State by setting a minimum amount of excise duty. Our government has decided to take advantage of this option and expects this measure to reduce costs, which would lead to greater competitiveness in the transport of goods and services on the European market. The measure therefore has direct effects on road transport by finding other options or options for those with smaller or lighter cargo vehicles. But, as the minister says, this is a measure combined with a toll rise for freight vehicles, which will be compensated and possible as a relief when using ABC cards. This is one of the anti-crisis measures to mitigate the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, which is indirectly linked to the other measure, namely the increase in tolls for freight vehicles and the rise in the prices of vignettes for passenger vehicles, which the Government should try to ensure stable financing for the completion of the motorway cross, which is of course also important in terms of development issues. With regard to the first measure, this is a reduction in costs with lower excise duties, and we are optimistic, and with regard to the second, as regards to tolling, should this be reserved for freight vehicles or passenger vehicles, as we still advocate a solution that is best and most honest, that electronic tolling is introduced as soon as possible and that each of those who use, burdens or harms the road, in accordance with the needs of pay, exactly as he has spent these services or in other words, as he has indeed transported. However, this will be an opportunity to discuss the second law, which is also included in this meeting. A well-known German proverb says you save when you have one. I'm forced to repeat that we've missed those times once before. They weren't long ago, but at some point, some other people didn't know how to listen. In fact, when we had a period of high economic growth, when you are running out, you have nothing left to save, and in Slovenia there is a moment, unfortunately, too. This is why, of course, it is also welcome at this time that economists have to be careful about all these measures, if they cannot, of course, happen, that there may be some other, equally necessary, important and urgent measures that are lacking, because, of course, we will be able to do so in a certain area, including excise duties or vignettes, to the budget, and that we will not be left with what we would like to share for urgent and necessary measures. There was also a lot of talk at this point about how excise duties, agriculture, tractors, agricultural machinery are important and necessary. That is why, of course, I am pleased that as one of the three amendments, we have also received the one from the government that replaces 50% with 70%. I think that this is important, necessary, and above all a realistic and financially sustainable proposal, and that is why in the LDS Amendment Group, the third drafted by the Government, we will support that, of course, 50% is replaced by 70%. In doing so, I think that the Government is also responding adequately to the evidence that the rural agriculture it receives is estimated to be somewhere in the amount of €2.3 million of additional resources, and is taking it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the anti-crisis measures, for the goods and passengers sector, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duty is undoubtedly an important contribution to alleviating the crisis in this sector, which is one of those covered by the crisis among the first. The proposal will thus reduce the burden of excise duty on the debtors using a total gross vehicle weight of 7,5 tonnes and more for the transport of goods or motor vehicles of category M2 and M3 for the transport of passengers. At the same time, I must point out that beneficiaries will have to provide adequate records and monitor fuel consumption for the engines of eligible vehicles, and therefore administrative costs will be slightly increased. However, we are confident that on the other hand, the consequences of the financial and economic crisis will be greatly appreciated as a result of these reductions in the transport of goods and passengers, as fuel prices represent the highest cost. This proposal will make it possible to maintain jobs and consequently increase competitiveness compared to European countries that have not implemented this proposed measure. Having regard to the fact that it was 31st day 12. In Slovenia, 2,398 buses and 10396 trucks with a maximum permissible mass of not less than 7.5 tonnes of this category are registered, according to the government's estimate, the funding shortfall of EUR 38.74 million per annum. The loss of revenue will be covered by other public financial revenues. Due to the foregoing, that changes to the excise legislation will mitigate the consequences of the financial economic crisis in the transport of goods and passengers sector, we support the proposed amendments to the law, including the government amendment, in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar will give the opinion of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, chairman. By means of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties that we have before us, the Government intends to reduce the excise duty on gas oil, which is evidently used to drive motor vehicles for commercial use - these are freight vehicles with a total gross mass of 7.5 tonnes or more and which are used for the transport of goods and vehicles used for the regular and occasional transport of passengers, which we support in our Group of Members. In addition, it lays down the time limits within which the customs authority must decide on the application and carry out the refund. However, our SDS Group has also tabled an amendment to Article 54 of the Act to ensure that energy buyers who are able to demonstrate that they are used to drive static machinery, machinery in construction and machinery, motor track vehicles and rail transport, cables and machinery on skis, and the energy used for the propulsion of agricultural and forestry machinery, including tractors, are entitled to reimbursement of excise duty of 75% of the excise duty prescribed for propulsion purposes, instead of the current 50. This seems particularly appropriate to us because, during this period of general crisis, the situation in both construction and agriculture, which has not so far received much anti-crisis measures from the Government, would significantly improve. Slovenian farms are significantly smaller than the agriculturally developed countries of the European Union, and Slovenian farmers also face fragmentation of the property and a small ownership structure, which significantly increases the costs for farmers in the processing of land and forest and, consequently, increases costs. Data show that total agricultural production costs increased by 20 per cent and more in the last year alone. In the livestock sector, costs increased by more than 10% compared to the average in 2007. The buying-in price of milk and meat is falling steadily this year. The cost structure itself represents a very large share of the cost of domestic machinery services, including energy costs. According to KIS - Agricultural Institute of Slovenia - the cost of domestic machinery services for wheat production is 18.1%, 26.6% for silage maize production, 38.7% for hay production and 41.7% for grass silage production. Increasing the share of excise duty to 75% would help to improve the situation, both in construction and agriculture, especially in increasingly acute conditions of the global economic and financial crisis. We will support the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Three amendments are tabled in Article 2. We are moving on to the first amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u144	That's what I'd like to warn you. I'm sorry. We're discussing all three amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u145	So, the amendment tabled by the coalition is certainly one of those amendments that we can talk about, that also in this system of excise duty we can help with the development or existence of agricultural production and also forestry production, both sectors are extremely important for rural development in Slovenia, as these are usually activities that take place outside major centres. We have also talked many times about how we can help with individual measures in this area as well. While some have been accepted as proposals, they have not yet been implemented in the form of an adopted law and, of course, we expect this to happen in the future. With regard to excise duties themselves, we can talk about the fact that this proposal is to increase the cost of excise duty by 20%, what we consider to be real and even at this point when we find that agriculture and forestry, in fact at this time of recession, may not be as much at the moment of impact, but of course it already feels like we can keep "a few more reserves" in future, if we can say so, in quotations, if we really need to act more effectively or drasticly, to reduce the costs of agriculture and forestry. That way, I will support the amendment of the coalition on my own. While it would be ideal, as proposed by other amendments, that this percentage is even higher, or as proposed, even 100% easier, but I think we need to take a lease, that more attention should be paid at this time to those sectors that already have very pronounced problems, and, as I said, if necessary, it may be possible to cut down at some time even after additional percentages. I therefore estimate that this will, however, be an extremely concrete and appropriate contribution to reducing the costs of agriculture and forestry and this 70% will also burden an additional budget with the loss of these revenues, but we believe that this loss will be manageable and will have no worse financial consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I have referred to Article 2 of the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, under point 2, to delete paragraph 22 of the last paragraph. When we talked about helping carriers, which is, of course, the purpose of this law by reducing excise duties, it must be said, however, that this measure is not old enough to make this proposal. This excise duty reduction measure has already been proposed in the previous government and, of course, also in connection with tolls, but at the time it was talked about letting down carriers, about not doing anything for the railway and that road hauliers are road robbers who destroy roads, etc., not to mention. In short, the then opposition had a completely different speech than it is now. Of course you'll say the situation was different. True, they were different, but the problems of road hauliers were then the same as they were today. I am not entirely sure that this measure will be lower if we look at it - I personally see it as a contribution to it, of course, but I am not sure if it will actually be the measure that will contribute something to the carrier as an entrepreneur. However, it is only necessary to point out that carriers are warning that their markets are shrinking, that their competition is too high, that the prices they achieve on the market are low and that the number of empty kilometres is increasing and, last but not least, that costs are increasing; that is, 40% of the increase in tolls in a small company’s balance sheet is also significant. In short, I would agree with some of the coalition's predecessors when they expressed their view that, in fact, there is a lack of systemicity, systemicity, and road hauliers. I myself have asked the Minister of Transport a written question in April, expecting an answer to what was actually done for road hauliers as an important economic operator. There's no answer yet. Of course, we have got some law that will help, but there are still a lot of things, I think, in this area to regulate and I think it would be slowly appropriate for the Government to assess and declare, in accordance with the regulation of the European Council, measures to be taken in the event of a crisis in the road transport market, such a crisis also for road transport in Slovenia. However, to show that it is still necessary to look at any measure adopted under a certain law. Back to the amendment and the last sentence of Article 22. We suggest that the last sentence be deleted. The refund cannot be claimed for the fuel purchased in cash. So, the carrier who comes to the gas station, who purchases the fuel, has only the option to pay in a non-cash form, is said to be using a credit card. And quite a few carriers have warned that in these times when we are talking about the crisis, it often happens that this credit card is blocked for understandable reasons. So if he wants to drive, he can't pay anything but cashless. He has to go to the gas station and pay for the gas. With what? Yeah, cash. Cash is an official means of payment. I think that the euro in force in Slovenia, which I have in my wallet, is an official means of payment and I don't know why, I don't know why the refund can't be demanded for the fuel purchased in cash? I think this sentence has matured constitutional judgment. I don't understand why the account the carrier gets when he buys the fuel wouldn't be enough proof to pay for the fuel he poured with the money. I don't know. Good. The argument will be abuse. There can be no abuse if there is proper control. Even in the case of payments with non-cash cards, this can probably happen. I think this sentence is certainly such that it requires reflection. That is why we have tabled this amendment in our parliamentary group to be deleted. Because it's perfectly logical that I can come to the store, that I can buy or buy at a gas station, and pay with cash, and get a properly bill for that. If you need to add any additional information to your account, I don't know, the truck number, if someone is afraid that instead of putting it in your truck, you can also do that if it comes with a credit card, then I think that this amendment needs to be supported, you see, also for the benefit of the carriers. That small benefit, which will prove to be, as we have all come to realize now, that we will support this law, as far as excise duties are concerned, let us support this and one small administrative obstacle, which is not really that small. It can happen, I think that one of the carriers, when they look at this law, can trigger even a constitutional judgment. I suggest here that we reflect on this amendment, this second point, that the last sentence of paragraph 22 be deleted in order to accept it. I am confident that all those responsible who have to take proper care to prevent abuse will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With the amendment in our parliamentary group, we wanted in particular to help improve to a greater extent the situation of those who are engaged in construction activities or those who are still involved in agriculture. In the review of fuel assessments in Slovenia, we can see that from January 2008 to June 2008, the price rose from 1,072 euros to 1,294 euros. Indeed, prices of fuel fuels at global level are lower than in the previous year, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia raised excise duties when the price of fuel was reduced. The economic and financial situation itself has deteriorated significantly and has been severely affected by agriculture and forestry, according to 2008. The measures adopted to date did not include measures that would be of any use to agriculture and forestry, but only to tackle it. In the banking market, interest is increasing and capital is being auctioned, further inducing production and exacerbating the economic situation of agriculture and forestry in Slovenia. We would also like to support the Magi proposal. But as he said before, we assumed or knew that the coalition would not accept it. There is something else I have to point out that I have already noticed on the committee, or the thesis has prevailed that farmers can get all the quantities they buy back, or all the quantities of fuel they buy, but of course this is not true, because farmers are limited to the surface or hectare in their recovery applications, and not to how many tractors they have, what they are and how modern they are. This is for a farmer a basic asset such as a machine for each entrepreneur or for a truck carrier, and of course this is not a luxury. And what will be recovered from excise duty is also prescribed in the Regulation and determined how much fuel can be consumed per hectare of comparable area. The amendment also proposes that those carriers who, without a doubt with the original invoice, prove that they have bought the fuel and paid it in any way, including cash, may receive the excise duty refund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Welcome, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank God that the state that the government has overlooked now that it has destroyed 2 000 carriers in Slovenia who no longer have anything to do with parking cars and now have begun to reduce excise duties. However, in this law, the bill, it is very commendable - except for one thing. It's true, there's no agricultural machinery here, there's no construction machinery here, I don't know why they're being released here. For if this is to be avoided, then we are again taking the initiative of these construction companies, with construction machines, the owner of construction machines, to start refueling the fuel oil, as well as the farmers. I do not think that this is the goal of the State that again more taxpayers' money or more excise duties are lost in another way, which is why we in the SDS Group have decided to table an amendment to correct this part that could go into such or other machinations. It is true that it has been three months since the Law on Excise Parked Over 2,000 Vehicles was passed. Maybe the goal was to make a selection, who can last longer, who can bleed longer, I don't know. The pressure of Slovenian carriers this year on raising excise duties was barren. Last year, we remember the carrier, they were on the plane to watch the highways of Minister Žerjev. They were built on hand. But this year we hit, the government hit Slovenian carriers crazy in the pocket, if I may say so. And that's why we got so many more unemployed people. Yesterday's statement by the Minister for the Economy that only 1,480 people were more unemployed this year is very, very few if this information is true. In fact, he also read this information from data that are peaceable in Slovenia. The Ministry of Transport or the Government also decides to raise tolls. With this part of the excise duty that will return, this part of the excise duty will actually cover his eyes because on the other hand, they will lift the tolls. That's right. Better millet than nothing. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Now, transport companies, carriers will have to collect a month's bills, they'll hand them over to the customs office, the tax institutes, and then that check will last a month, and the repayment period is 60 days. People, it's 120 days of country credit, 120 days. They are not even aware of this which is being debated here today. Therefore, it was also important to reimburse overpaid VAT in order to arrive at 7 or 14 days or even into force, with this year 21 days. At least this part would be shortened because that part of the law would also apply to that part. Or perhaps lost or released agricultural machinery in this law. Are you going to stop cooperatives that somehow support farmers of agricultural crops so that they can sell directly in stores? I don't know what the purpose is. Why was agriculture exempt from this law? Otherwise, I have to admit that it is certainly the last time to comply with this law, to support this amendment, because in the end, there are over 12,000 carriers in Slovenia, which contribute a great deal of money to the state treasury. I hope it's not too late. I hope that this measure will be swift enough, and I also hope that this amendment proposal, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be considered to be well-intentioned, but not ill-intentioned. For, as I said before, we will also prevent "tanking" if so in jargon I can say, working and agricultural machinery with burning oil, machinery, which is in fact, we all know, prohibited. Why do we have to have more institutions, more inspections to keep them under control if these things happen? Let's make this marriage the way it's supposed to be for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendments? I'm opening the application. Madam Secretary of State, please. Will you then? Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. In my opening remarks, I said that in the Slovenian National Party we support the amendment, in this case, yes, the SDS, which provides that the word "fifty" is replaced by "fifty-fifty" in the current Article 54 of the Law in the seventh and ninth paragraphs. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this proposal is better than the other two proposals. As far as the amendment of the Slovenian Human Party is concerned. Of course, it is completely understandable that, at the moment of recession, agriculture is still important. For the decline of almost 10% of agricultural production is giving thought to how we will live on, but I do estimate that saving through the Law on Excise, one of many laws, cannot solve the issue of agriculture by increasing from 50 to 100% of excise duty. Perhaps this is an integral part that could come into play in a more severe crisis. In this case, no. I also do not think it is fair for all of us to hear that we are now comparing the reduction of excise duty on trucks with the rise of tolls. I think these two are completely different content and it's not right to mix it up. On the one hand, excise duties mean for one which is either a carrier or a bus or a truck over 7,5 tonnes, a reduction in excise duty means much for its own production. Of course, toll payment means a great deal to all of us who drive on Slovenian roads, and these two contents are completely incomparable and the toll rise must be carried out and must be carried out. In short. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that I respect all three amendments tabled, but I think it would be best and right to accept the solution proposed by the SDS, so that 50% will be replaced by the word 'fifty-seven' and we also support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u154	Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, who is leaving with her co-workers and colleagues. We have already made it clear in the opinion of the parliamentary group, which our colleague Radovan Žerjav gave, that it is good that we are paying attention to all the legislation that is coming to resolve these crisis situations and, of course, that agriculture is what unfortunately the Government forgets and we point out in all these laws. My question to the Prime Minister of the Government yesterday has obviously fallen to fertile ground, which is good, and right after or at the same time, because the issue was submitted to the President of the Government or the Cabinet on Friday, a solution came from the coalition for agricultural machinery and so on, where the excise duty was returned on your proposal, following a proposal from the coalition, increases from 50 to 70%. So all three proposals that are, all three amendments that are, of course, improve the current state of play. Of course, we support our solutions for the excise duty to be returned in full. For this, of course, are the arguments that we have also written in the amendment proposal. I'll just give you two. The share of fuel in production costs in Slovenian agriculture is, of course, significantly higher than in comparable countries than in most European Union countries, where agricultural areas, processing areas, are significantly larger than in Slovenia, fragmentation is significantly smaller. That's the situation. Of course, someone will say, it is necessary to unite and so on, surface and property, but it is a long process, but of course it is also happening. And there's another reason for that. The function of agriculture is not only a basic activity of food production, but it is primarily a socially important function, it is the processing of landscapes, the openness of space and its management in terms of economy, strategy, ecology and so on. And this is, of course, the basic condition for satisfactory settlement and, I would say, the design and image of our rural areas. That's why we're going to support this amendment of ours that's under number two. However, I have a question, and I would like the Secretary of State to answer this question, as Dr Verlic has pointed out earlier, namely whether the objective conditions for fear that the applicant cites in the explanatory statement for the twenty-two paragraph, or the last paragraph, where you write that in order to prevent abuse, I mean auto-transport activity, in order to prevent abuse, it is determined that the return cannot be claimed for the fuel purchased in cash. I'd say so. If this option is objectively large, then I understand this, but otherwise I do not understand this fact, and I also take note of the reasons that Dr Verlich spoke about earlier, that it is not always possible, that it is not always possible to avoid such a way of repayment. I don't know if there are really any other instruments to ensure that there is no abuse in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u157	Nice greetings, Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. I would also like to base my support for this amendment, which we have tabled in the People's Party. At the same time, I am pleased that both the opposition party's proposal to this article and today we see that coalition parties have also tabled their amendment. I am sure that, at the end of the day, the solution that has been given to this law will be a solution that will partially help solve the crisis that is certainly in agriculture. Unfortunately, we hear several times that some estimate that there is no crisis in agriculture or that it will come with great delays. However, those who produce milk and their price dropped from 33 cents to 26 cents per litre of milk, those who have increased from 30 days ago to 45 days and are still falling, this period is extended. Similarly, in the case of questions where a kilogram of meat for a young asked cattle is below three euros, the payment deadline is there for two months and more. I think it is right that this meeting should also talk about this and recognize that the acute signs of the agricultural crisis and reflect very strongly, especially where processing plants such as those in Slovenia, in Prekmurje, have already occurred in recent weeks, months. People were practically at every crop or amount, their values, in that case, cattle at the slaughterhouse sold. I think it is right to speak in some way at this time about the fact that we know that this crisis, which is in agriculture or harsh conditions, reflects the competitiveness of European agriculture, which strikes Slovenia, every day. In this crisis, which is constant, every week, every day also any one of these farms is dizzy. What is now happening in the economy in a single wave, once again under very tight conditions in the wider field, is a permanent measure in agriculture. The permanent situation is appropriate, and the large number of reduced farms still making progress on this market competes with these harsh conditions. I am therefore pleased that we will take one such very concrete measure. The measure that we are essentially going to do is to make for excise duty as a tax collected by the State, to take some measure in this direction, to reduce this tax on the part of the State which is collected and to release part of it to those who are engaged in agriculture, and in this way perhaps even for a month or so, to resist the situation in this very harsh market for a year. However, I am sure that in the future we will have to adopt several more laws in this area, even in the People's Party we have already introduced a law on income, where we also want to clear up certain things that are again tax-related. I think it is right that this is a topic around which the National Assembly and the Government have spent enough time in the future, they will pay sufficient attention to it and this necessary segment of this indispensable segment of the Slovenian economy will enable it to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Today, fuel buyers used to drive agricultural and forestry mechanisms, including tractors, have the right to 50 % of the excise duty refund prescribed for propulsion purposes. This is due to the very nature of Slovenian agriculture, according to our estimates, an absolutely small proportion. In fact, the situation in Slovenian agriculture, which is conditioned by fragmentation and adverse natural taxes for agricultural processing, is further deteriorated in acute economic conditions. The increase in this share, which, last but not least, we are proposing through our rightful farmers amendment, would certainly help to ease this poor economic situation in agriculture. In February this year, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published information that the factor income in agriculture was 10% lower in 2008 than in 2007. The prices of agricultural crops, however, have been fluctuating tremendously, and in recent times, they have been falling heavily. When we talk about the share of fuel in costs, Slovenian farmers are larger than in other countries, since Slovenian farms are significantly smaller than in most European countries, and our farms are also facing a fragmented parcel structure, which I have already talked about. By increasing the eligible share, it would help to improve this economic situation, which would help to facilitate farming under all the more stringent conditions and thus allow for the further development of rural areas, in particular rural areas. One of the reasons for the reduction in the level of taxation set out in the Directive is also the social or environmental reasons. Farmers today must meet strict farming conditions, environmental protection standards, food safety, animal health and welfare, and take into account the principles of good agricultural and environmental performance, which are covered by the term "cross-compliance". Also because of all of this, we believe that 100% of the refund on excise duty would be the right response to this severe crisis, which also occurred in agriculture, not only in other areas of the economy, but also in agriculture. That is why, of course, we will support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jursha, please. Then Mrs. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that quite a number of words were put forward on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, I would not like to repeat the reasons for the 100% refund of excise duty. I am joining all those words spoken by my colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party. I must say that I too will support their amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Allow me to respond to your debate on the amendments tabled. I will begin with the first amendment by deleting the last sentence of paragraph twenty-two of this Article. In every measure the Government wants to implement and is targeted at a specific population, we are always committed, to the rules of Members and the Government, to avoid the act of instrumentation and to be really directed towards that population that we want it to be directed at. A non-cash payment shall ensure the identification of the buyer. The identification of the buyer connects its activity, registered activity and purpose for which it purchases specific fuel and for which it will require reimbursement of excise duty. This is said to be an impregnable non-cash payment, or the links to this identification prevent the use of this instrument and the use of fuel for precisely defined purposes for other purposes. This provision was therefore incorporated. As regards the fact that accounts are being blocked and therefore no cash payment is possible, this is totally not true. Unsecured payments are also payment cards, such as magma and similar cards, which can be used for this purpose and also provide adequate identification. As far as amendments relating to agricultural activities are concerned. Let me tell you that the current situation allows farmers to recover their excise duty of EUR 224 per 1,000 litres. This is compared to, if we're comparing now with the motorists, because we have both on the wallpaper, almost once more. If we were to adopt the amendment proposed, namely the first amendment, then it would be a return of €440 per thousand litre, which is, of course, with all the other measures that he thinks were already presented to you yesterday in response to the questions raised by the Members, it is unacceptable. We believe that it is right to balance the state's action, in particular the action relating to public finances for all segments. For the Government, the amendment, which includes only agricultural machinery, but not stationary machinery, is acceptable, up to 70%, which will mean an increase in farmers' refunds of EUR 300 ten instead of the current two hundred and twenty-four euros per thousand litres. Another thing was exposed, when is it possible to provide a refund? This deadline has been set with the supervisory authority; see, this is not about lending the country, as was somehow said in the meantime. A excise duty is an obligation to return. And the period of forty-five days laid down in the law ensures that all checks and procedures are properly carried out, but we believe that it is possible to maintain it. However, it is important to stress, in particular in agriculture, another element introduced this year, while in recent years these excise duties have been adjusted once a year, this excise duty is returned each month, an important element in improving the liquidity situation of the agricultural population. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We'd still like to discuss it. Check-in is on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I pressed the wrong button. Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, I must say that I do not understand the answer and this explanation. I don't think the basic dilemma is clear. So if I want, as a car carrier, to get my excise duty back, I'm just going to have a cash-free payment. Anyway, I have to have a card. Money doesn't apply to me. So if I come in with a wallet, with a legal means of payment, it's obvious that at the pump or where I would buy the fuel, they can't issue an account where, I don't know, all the necessary I.D. data is clearly showing that I'm the beneficiary of the excise duty refund. And control can't be with carriers, carriers can't suffer from tax and customs inspection, and I don't know who. I think that the state must take care of all these instruments, control that there will be no abuse. But there's an abuse even if I have a payment bill and I don't know what card. But I don't understand that in the country of Slovenia, if I'm blocked, I probably can have Magno blocked, but I don't know which card, or even now. And we're talking, here we've all agreed on strict operating conditions for these transport companies. You know, I'm starting to think that we're protecting the inspections that we're supposed to be controlling at the expense of the carriers. Well, let's make sure they don't know what he's going to do with the money and pay for it. Sorry, it's almost like we come to Mercator and we're told in Mercator - from now on only with a card and no money. I think that this consideration is necessary and that supervision is carried out by the relevant authorities, which must prevent those who pay cash at the pump, or at the supplier, or anywhere, from doing so in such a way that abuse does not occur. And I don't think we should put that on the transporters. At the same time, I really don't understand why money, cash in a nice one-group population, as you said, is now the carriers of one group, a special population for which cash does not apply. I think that this burden here is easy to impose on those bodies that must prevent abuse and cannot certainly go to the detriment of the carriers. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to forgive. [[....]] Up your hand a little bit. Here you go, Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll be brief because I don't want to repeat myself. But I got the feeling that we all came to this realization that this share of the refund would be good to raise excise duties. Now the difference between the Government and the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal is only 5% and, as is usually the case in the negotiations, everyone is failing somewhere. A little bit from the top, a little bit from the bottom. I suggest you support our amendment with 75% refund. However, as regards cash payments, as the Secretary of State has said, I believe that there is certainly an instrument, a control that would prevent this abuse. Now I wouldn't have thought of saying, maybe at the expense of a mother's number or a code of activity, there's got to be something like that. I think it is also appropriate to support the deletion of this last sentence of paragraph twenty-two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm defending this 100% refund. If we can't get together 100% of this time, I have to say that right now, this weekend, I've been talking to one of the farmers in our environment who says, "I'm probably the farthest from my production, and this month we've spent 1,000 euros on oil." We know how much these excises are coming. And he says, "It is quite different for those who are farming, whose land and their work circle revolve around their properties." And certainly such farmers are not in the same position. If we can't get to 100, let's try to talk about at least those who have significantly more far away, who consume significantly more fuel on this account, because their production is also significantly more expensive to find a compromise here, although I think it would be the most fair 100%. Don't be afraid of what I saw today, so there can be abuse. I think that this matter can be resolved in a much more elegant way, not that these craftsmen who also deal in cash are thus prevented from doing so easily. Now for the cards. You know, because cards are the most likely and this insecure business, when on the one hand you can really easily do business, but it costs a lot of money. As a result, there are also percentages, two, five, as far as where, more expensive services, products and all, because of the fact that we are paying someone, so simplified payments are made. So this modernisation on the one hand also brings encouragement. Let us accept, for God's sake, this matter in this way, as this amendment has been made. I'm sure I'll support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're gonna have to decide on the amendment for the phone or for me. [[...]] Check-in is on. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. One additional information was still needed, which is why I would like to refer one question to the Secretary of State in this regard. The law will be adopted on June 1st, but how can they be, it is known that many transport companies also have their own pumps, which have so many thousand litres of fuel pumped. How will this law, or will they be able to enforce it back for that fuel they already have, or from the day they start refueling on June 1st? But they may still have fuel by August 1st, caricated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. At the date of entry into force of the law it will be necessary to draw up a census and the fuel from this day forward will be subject to the provision of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Now I really do realize that no one wants to discuss it anymore. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL BUSINESS, PROCESSING FOR INSOLVANCE AND FORCESSIVE DISCONTINUATION IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE Regular PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you so much for the president's word. A nice greeting from the Member of Parliament and the Members! The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Financial Operations Act and insolvency procedures is to fully regulate the processing of personal data of insolvency debtors who are consumers. In this comprehensive regulation, we follow in particular the views expressed in a number of judgments or decisions of the Constitutional Court and in accordance with the warnings given by the information officer concerning the protection of personal data. Two types of personal data shall be collected in these procedures. It's a single mother code and a tax code. In particular, the tax number shall be used by banks and other financial institutions to determine in full the identification of the insolvency debtor, which is of particular importance due to the timely application of insolvency claims. However, a single home number shall identify the owner or debtor as the owner of the property or as the holder of the business share. This enables bankruptcy creditors to identify such a person to protect the rights of creditors and of any other persons who would be placed on the market with such assets. In terms of the principle of proportionality of the processing of personal data, it is prohibited to publish both the EMSO and the tax numbers. However, only that information relating to one of the two identifiers or numbers which has been specifically specified in the request for data transmission may be received by an eligible entity requiring the identification of the insolvency representative who is a consumer. The second set of amendments seeks to improve the efficiency of insolvency management as a legal basis for the transmission of data in IT processes is provided. In order to make these procedures more informative, the obligation is also laid down for the bankruptcy manager or manager to submit his reports, the lists of claims tested and other letters to the court in electronic form and to sign them by means of a secure electronic signature. The court will also issue decisions and orders in electronic form on the basis of a proposal for a law. The last part of the amendments relates to the harmonisation or adaptation of provisions relating to the reasonable application of the Law of Justice. This is because, due to the specific nature of insolvency proceedings, the applicable application of the Law on the Judicial Procedure, which is a rule, requires some minor corrections, namely the provisions on how and who decides to appeal against the decision in insolvency proceedings and also on the legal consequences of the default of the engagement. These are the news brought by the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. At its 4th meeting, on 6 May 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial operations, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, submitted by the Government, of course, to the Assembly. The Committee had the opinion of the State Council and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the proposer said about what we have just heard. Therefore, all I can say is that we are also familiar with the opinion of the State Council, which supports the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Services said that the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups were harmonised and the law improved if I simplified. The Committee further adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. OJ C 7, 17, 20, 21, 22, 28, 30, 32 and 35. However, he did not accept the SDS amendment and did not vote on one of the amendments which thus became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. However, the amended bill is an integral part of the report that you have adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u179	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment to the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures entails changes in the three segments, namely the harmonisation of the position of the Constitutional Court on the protection of personal data and the right to protection of personal data, further in the work relating to the informationisation of proceedings and the more effective management of insolvency proceedings. Last year, the law enacted and regulated the area of personal bankruptcy - the possibility for over-indebted natural persons to propose bankruptcy on the basis of which their creditors will be able to pay in part. They have the opportunity to propose debt relief on the remainder. The indebtedness of natural persons is based on the ignorance of the legality of money transactions. Overindebtedness can also result from events that are not affected by a person’s death, such as the death of a family member, the disease, and not by his or her inability to work today, but by his or her lack of employment and thus unemployment. Members of the DeSUS have already been reminded of the financial consequences of the introduction of personal bankruptcy when adopting the amendment of the law, as the applicant must impose an advance upon the submission of the proposal to cover the initial costs of the procedure, which includes flat-rate compensation for publications, compensation for the administrator and other costs of the procedure. The advance thus amounts to approximately EUR 2 000, which is certainly a considerable cost for the debtor. In short, the shortcomings of the law adopted last year are the subject of today's debate or this novel. Members of the DeSUS believe that the proposed amendments follow the position of the Constitutional Court and are prepared in accordance with the guiding principles of the basic law, so we will unanimously support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u181	Mr. Vice President. Respectable present. Novela also brings changes. Consistency of the positions expressed in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and warnings of the information officer regarding the protection of personal data and ensuring the proportionality of the legal interference in the right to the protection of personal data of insolvent debtors. The legal basis for the full identification of the insolvency debtor is given, since the complete identification of the individual is not only sufficient to provide information on the name and surname of the individual, but also requires information on the EMHO or the tax number to be fully identified. Due to the legal consequences of the initiation of a personal bankruptcy procedure, the conduct of both identification numbers is certainly necessary to achieve the constitutionally permissible objective, namely the protection of the interests or position of a wide range of creditors of the bankruptcy debtor and buyers of his assets belonging to the bankruptcy mass. An appropriate legal basis shall be provided for the transmission of data on insolvency proceedings in an informed form. Information may only be transmitted to beneficiaries for the purposes specified by the law, in order to implement the principle of proportionality, by interfering with personal data. The beneficiary may only receive information on one of the identification numbers - the EMSO or the tax number of the insolvent debtor, namely the one set out in the request for data transmission in the informationised form. More efficient insolvency management is ensured. The Novela brings compliance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure [[PPP-D]] . The possibility is introduced to submit a proposal for the initiation of a personal bankruptcy on the record before the Court of Justice and certain other amendments necessary for a clearer and editorially consistent legal regime. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination brings positive changes. In particular, it is to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and to alert the information officer regarding the protection of personal data and to ensure the proportionality of legal interference with the rights to the protection of personal data of insolvent debtors. The practice has shown that it is necessary to fully identify the insolvency debtor, the person against whom insolvency proceedings are conducted. However, complete identification does not only mean information about the name and surname of the individual, but full identification also requires data of a single home number or tax number. Banks and other financial institutions and other economic entities of the insolvency debtor shall normally identify in their records a tax number. However, for the EMSO, the insolvency debtor shall be identified as the potential owner of the property in the Land Book or as the holder of the business share in a limited liability company in the Court Register. We probably all agree that it is right to protect the legal position of the wider range of creditors of the insolvency debtor and legal entities with which that debtor enters into business and other legal relations. If they wish to report their claims in a timely manner, full identification is necessary and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we agree that in this case it is most likely not an excessive intervention in the position of insolvent debtor. However, a change towards greater informationisation of the process is certainly welcome, which is important for accelerating and self-efficiency in the conduct of insolvency proceedings. Among other things, it is the responsibility of the administrator to submit his reports, the lists of claims tested and other letters to the court in electronic form and also the obligation for the court to issue decisions and orders in electronic form. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that the changes do not actually have consequences in terms of delaying procedures, losing property and double paying of bankruptcy managers, the proposal supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The LDS will support the amendment of the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, as it brings a number of changes: harmonisation with the positions expressed in the Constitutional Court’s decision and a warning from the information officer regarding the protection of personal data and ensuring the proportionality of legal interference with the right to protection of personal data of insolvency debtors; provision of an appropriate legal basis for the transmission of data on insolvency proceedings in the information form; provision for more effective management of insolvency proceedings; harmonisation with the provisions of the law on changes and additions to the law on fair procedure; provision for the possibility of an assessment of the initiation of a personal bankruptcy on the record in court; and changes required by means of clearer and editorial, consistent legal arrangements. At its own meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the Committee considered and adopted several amendments that emerged from the coordination with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and thus improved the basic text of the amendment of the law. On the basis of the above findings and the fact that no amendments were tabled for the second hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly, we will support the proposal of the new law at the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the law requires full compliance with the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and a warning from the information officer for the protection of personal data. The data provided by the Ministry of Justice on enforcement procedures, forced liquidation and bankruptcy procedures are worrying, as things are being resolved extremely long and procedures are being slowed down in this way. The proposal for a law regulates the possibility of quicker resolution in particular when faster provision is needed and the legal basis for the collection of certain data in insolvency proceedings. I hope that these changes will allow for a faster resolution of long-term procedures. The amendment of the law itself also harmonises the arrangements in other legislative proposals and certain editorial corrections, which constitute a clearer definition of the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, while making this law more useful and, above all, upgrading the entire process of information and introducing easier access to the data required in the insolvency procedure itself. The amendment of the law itself does not change the basic principles of procedures, which is essential to protect both the creditor and the debtor. Because of all the proposals proposed in the Social Democrats' Group, we will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to and additions to the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures, according to the applicants, require full harmonisation of the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the protection of personal data. The applicant points out that it has further pursued the objectives of ensuring an adequate legal basis for the transmission of data on insolvency proceedings in computerised form and the objective of ensuring the effective management of insolvency proceedings, as well as the arrangements for the submission of a proposal for the initiation of a personal bankruptcy on the record in court. In the SDS Group, we expected that the proposed objective of ensuring the effective conduct of insolvency proceedings would also be represented in amending the law, but unfortunately this did not happen. The amendment of the law was an opportunity for the Government to propose such changes as to speed up the bankruptcy process and increase the protection of the interests of creditors in the bankruptcy process. In our view, the development of insolvency legislation under the current government's tactics is going in the wrong direction. Therefore, the proposal for amendments to the law has not even opened those articles of the law which would allow the amendment to improve the law in this direction. We note the trend that the role of the boards of creditors is being reduced and that the government has not listened to the companies of the injured who have made very useful proposals based on many years of experience in bankruptcy proceedings. The solutions to the bill are also unclear and, in our opinion, run counter to certain legal principles, such as the principle of certainty and retroactivity. Thus, in our view, the proposed amendment to Article 499 makes it possible to double the remuneration of managers in cases where the award has already been paid and also encourages the delay in bankruptcy proceedings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress that the law should strengthen the responsibility of participants, especially professional insolvency authorities, and provide for harsh sanctions for offenders who do not respect the law and do not follow the basic objectives and principles of bankruptcy, which is controlled by the removal of the non-solvent debtor from the register in such a way that the damage of the creditor is minimal. In our view, bankruptcy managers should also be responsible for their activities with personal property, and we are often faced with the delay of bankruptcy proceedings and the absorption of bankruptcy weights rather than the accounts of creditors. In the SDS Group, we will not oppose changes to the law, as there is only a more or less beautiful correction that attempts to impress the Ministry with normal legislative activity in the field of justice. The missed opportunity to amend the law in the direction of real improvement is due to the lack of political will, which we also see in other proposals from this ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. This is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions introduces three amendments. The first, central and most important part is the abolition of the special healthcare commission, which was established with a view to achieving a faster decision on the suspension of the sentence, prison sentences, for health reasons. There have been problems in practice. When the Court receives an application for suspension, it is incumbent upon it to decide whether there are grounds for postponement or not within eight days. The Health Commission, which was set up to give an opinion on the eligibility of the postponement, has, as has been proved in practice, been unable to draw up such opinions within such a timeframe. As a result, delays occurred, the procedure became longer and actually went to the detriment of persons who were sent to the sentence. This is why this Commission is repealing the bill and will not suffer the fairness of the decision-making process. The suspension of the stay of a prison sentence will continue to be decided by the court or the director of the institution when conditions are laid down for this purpose. In its decision, the court will be able to engage medical experts for medical reasons and the Director will consult with specialities or obtain a specialist’s opinion. This will ensure that the legal deadlines for deciding whether or not to postpone the sentence are respected. The second amendment concerns the system or the arrangement of the removal prison, including the third set, relating to this same problem, by introducing this second amendment only in the part where the reasons for the suspension are laid down. In view of the fact that refoulement is possible as an alternative measure, a coercive measure should only be imposed within thirty days, there is no need for such a broad set of reasons as to delay the entry of this measure, such as at the time of imprisonment. For this reason, we propose in this novel that, as a valid reason for postponement, only postponement for health reasons remains. The third set, however, refers to the posting of persons who have been sentenced to imprisonment for the cessation of this measure. The current regime requires the compulsory deployment of these persons who are going to be imprisoned to the open departments of the institution. The problem is that open branches of institutions contain or serve to accommodate those populations of persons who are going through a prison sentence that have already been fully rehabilitated. There is no special protection in these sections, in fact, a fully open regime, without arrival and departure controls, and the placement of persons who have been told and actually come into prison is not appropriate in this population. With regard to the removal prison, it is considered that more than 90% of the penalties are paid when persons receive a stay or receive a removal prison order. The second remainder, the majority of the people, pay the penalty when they receive the call. In fact, only a handful of persons are sent or brought to prison and in most cases persons who are not personalized or because of their personal characteristics are often under the influence of alcohol and, in similar circumstances, are not suitable for accommodation in open offices. The legal amendment will ensure that these persons are accepted in the central parts of the institution, this is part of the institution, where all necessary administrative support is provided, so that they will then be allocated to departments where this is most appropriate in accordance with the instructions on the placement of persons on the stay of sentences. This is the content of the Proposal for Amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. As has already been said, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has also considered this proposal for a law, i.e. the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, at its 4th session, on 6 May 2009. After a reduced procedure, it was submitted by the Government. On the Committee, we had the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of Justice, and we also received a letter from Marjan Chandra, a penologist. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer said what we have heard now, so I would not repeat it myself. The Council of State announced its support for this bill and the representative of the legislative service said that some amendments were needed, which the coalition had also tabled. The opposition members of the committee were skeptical and opposed the abolition of the special commission, i.e. the special health commission. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendment to Article 2 of the SDS Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the law in all the articles which you have received as an amended proposal for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The main amendments to the law are three: the abolition of a special medical commission to remove delays in the decision on suspensions or suspension of sentences arising from the introduction of this commission, the arrangements for the suspension of the prison and the arrangements for referral to the remainder of the prison with instructions on the deployment and dispatch of convicts to the prison sentence. The abolition of a healthcare commission which decides on the grounds of the medical delay or the suspension of the sentence shall not be justified in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. The Health Commission shall be dismissed on the basis of a faster decision to suspend or suspend the sentence of imprisonment, thereby allowing the Director of the Institute or the Court to decide independently whether to postpone or suspend the sentence without a professional medical basis. According to the proposer, the suspension of the commission has reduced the scope of the defendant's rights as such proceedings are lengthy and, in Slovenia's view, its abolition will only definitively reduce the scope of the defendant's rights, since, under the new regulation, the competent court in the specific case has only the right to obtain the opinion of an expert in the medical profession, but not the duty to do so. The Director of the Institute also has only the possibility of obtaining an opinion from a specialist in the medical profession who carries out his activities in the framework of a parental institution in which the convicted person ends his sentence. He certainly does not have to do this, and he can make his own sovereign decision. According to the applicant, both the judge and the director of the institution will be able to justify their decision on the basis of a professional medical opinion. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we wonder how long it will take to obtain such an expert opinion. Usually just as long as it took the commission to make a decision. The following amendment is the arrangement for the suspension of the removal prison. The removal prison shall be ordered by the court for a maximum period of 30 days to the person being punished in the offence proceedings. The amendment of the law will allow the courts to refer persons who have been sentenced to a prison in accordance with their personal arrangements. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, persons who have been sentenced to correctional imprisonment should be sent to a closed section first and then reassigned to semi-substantiated or open offices. The regulation currently in force and provides that a court which has established a refoulement prison for a person in a criminal procedure shall send that person to the execution of a refoulement prison primarily in an open or semi-supported department of the institution, in accordance with the spatial possibilities of the institution, has proved to be completely inappropriate in practice. There must be a lot of you who don't know what's behind these so-called outlaws. It's not just those who have a traffic violation. These are also those who are being punished for violence, theft, drugs, and so on. They're also people who aren't dressed up and don't belong in an open department. It is unacceptable, for example, that the intervention group brings him to an open ward to stay in prison, for example, a bound bully, an alcoholic, and hand him over to the head when he is there alone, and, in fact, with that man, he can't help. In fact, he's even threatened. I think that's really unacceptable and unacceptable. Open departments are not suitable for these people. But as for those who accept social assistance and the removal prison for them goes away or ends, it's total nonsense. In this case, the Roma will not see the removal jail. The case when the police made 180 proposals for a Roma woman who is driving without a test and who is committing a misdemeanour will not be welcomed by an epilogue. The old law on punishment and imprisonment was good, even excellent, compared to what we have today, so I see no reason not to reintroduce it. In the Slovenian National Party Group we welcome the deletion of Article 5 on the home working body. The proposed article extended the deadline for the issue or harmonisation of the law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which entered into force on 1 November 2001. We will not support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u196	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we still believe in Slovenian justice and we believe that judges will be able to properly judge whether or not to set up a prison for removal and in which department this prison is to be carried out. We believe that there may be problems in these open departments, especially with regard to security and the like. We need to know that the removal prison actually occurs only in 10% of the cases and that the persons who take place in prison are likely to be quite problematic. While the scope of the removal prison is not a punishment, it is only a means to ensure payment of the individual’s financial obligations. It is correct and reasonable that there is a possibility of a court decision or a person sending it to a closed, semi-open or open department of the institution. From the point of view of safety, it is better to immediately assess whether or not the person who has been sanctioned for the removal prison is immediately sent to the closed department. For we do not have to wait for someone to escape and only then impose more severe sanctions, as such a measure can be envisaged in advance for certain persons. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we understand the amendment of the law so that it does not mean that these persons will be automatically placed in closed departments of the institutions of detention. The draft law states that a person shall be sent to the enforcement of a prison order in accordance with the instructions governing the deployment and dispatch of convicts to institutions for the cessation of sentences. The second amendment introduced by the bill is the abolition of a special medical commission which decides to postpone the prison sentence for health reasons. If the practice has indeed shown that this institution does not lead to quicker and more effective solutions, but even leads to longer and more complex decision-making and decision-making processes to determine whether the reasons for the suspension are given, it must agree with the suspension of this commission. After all, it is true that it can be decided by courts based on expert opinions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will decide on this law at our own discretion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u199	Hello again. The LDS Club will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The new Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions mainly touches on two solutions from the applicable Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which was adopted last year. First of all, it is a matter of abolishing a special medical commission which decides to postpone the prison sentence for health reasons. The idea behind the introduction of this Health Commission was that, with the help of this Commission, the Court could more quickly identify or condemn the grounds for the suspension of prison sentences for health reasons. In practice, it has been shown that this institution does not lead to quicker and more effective solutions, but rather leads to longer and more complex decision-making and determination procedures, whether the grounds for the postponement of penalties are given for health reasons. Therefore, in the LDS Club, we support the proposal that this special commission be abolished and that we return to the regime whereby the courts decide on this issue themselves, which allows them to rely on expert opinions. This is a system that has been in place before and is leaky and is known and in practice also works. The second amendment relates to a referral to a prison term for persons who are sentenced to imprisonment in criminal proceedings. Following the current regulation, these persons must be placed primarily on open departments of institutions. This arrangement has proved to be inappropriate in practice because there is a population of convicts in open departments who are practically fully prepared to return to freedom and are almost entirely socialised. Those offenders who have been sentenced to a resilient prison and who experience the end of this resilient prison are, however, a population with generally unregulated living conditions, and in this regard, alcoholics, drug addicts and the like may also be possible because it is a totally different population and there is often conflict. In the LDS, we support the efforts of the proposer or the Ministry of Justice to eliminate this inadequacy. We support the solution for persons who are sentenced to a prison sentence to target or travel to the relevant departments. The proposed arrangement does not mean that these persons will automatically be placed on closed departments of these institutions, but will be placed on institutions rather than on open departments. A more important difference is that the institution has a higher level of protection and that in accordance with the assessment and the personal situation of that person be placed in the relevant department. In this way, we will prevent any conflict and that persons who are sentenced to prison may be appropriately placed on probation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, let me immediately say that the Social Democrats will support the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions following a reduced procedure. Although the law in force fully regulates the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions, as has been said several times already today, it has been amended in 2008. During the implementation of this novel, the need to change individual solutions has emerged, as some solutions to the novel have not proved to have achieved their purpose. As an inadequate solution, it has been shown that a special medical commission has been put in place to decide whether a convicted person can be suspended from prison for a serious illness or whether the convicted person can be suspended from prison for a reason of need for treatment. The Commission was set up with a view to deciding more quickly and effectively on the suspension of the prison sentence for health reasons, but it has turned out that the scope of the defendant's rights here is very much changing. In view of the above, this amendment brings this law back to the previous regime and the Commission is hereby repealed. We also support the solution to the removal jail, both from the second point on health reasons and from the fact that the removal prison is now bound to the instructions on the deployment and deployment of convicts to the end of the prison sentence. This will allow the courts to refer the persons to closed, semi-closed or open offices of institutions, in accordance with their personal arrangements, as set out here. Once again, the Social Democrats will support changes in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much for the word, honourable Members, honourable Members. We have before us a new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. As has been said here many times before, this law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions has been amended or amended in 2008. And with the then amendment of the law, an important solution was put in place, namely the establishment of a special health commission. This special medical commission has been set up to decide whether the sentenced person can be suspended from prison for a serious illness or whether the sentenced person can be suspended from prison for reasons of need. The new law drafted by the current Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, is now abolishing this special medical commission. Thus, we are once again witnessing the abolition of a good solution that has eliminated the abuse of postponing prison sentences. During the implementation of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the implementation of the special health commission, it has been shown that the solutions adopted have achieved their purpose and that the proposed need to amend individual solutions is not justified and even allow the possibility of abuses and non-execution of the fundamental principles of legality, legal certainty and equal treatment of convicts in all institutions. However, the introduction of a special medical commission has reduced the possibility of pressure on the convicts against a particular doctor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not agree with the proposal to abolish the Special Health Commission, and we have also tabled an amendment for the second hearing on the Home Committee, which would maintain the Commission. Of course, we do not have a majority on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Most of them have a ruling coalition, and so our amendment is unfortunately without support. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as has already been said, we will not support the amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the last amendment to the 2008 Act, the implementation of a special medical commission decided whether a convicted person could be suspended from prison for a serious illness or whether the sentenced person could be suspended from prison due to the need for treatment. There have been difficulties in the practice of the commission in question, since the Commission must communicate its opinion to the court or to the prison institution without delay, since the court has to decide on the request for a decision within eight days of receiving the application, which has proved impossible. The establishment of this Commission has therefore not produced the desired consequences and has even reduced the scope of the defendants' rights due to the length of the procedure. Another important change is the arrangement for the suspension of the removal prison. For the removal of imprisonment, the court shall prescribe to persons punished in the offence proceedings for a maximum period of 30 days. Therefore, it is not appropriate to apply all decisions of Article 24 of the Law to the suspension of the suspension of refoulement, but to deferment for health reasons only. At the same time, the amendment will allow the courts to refer persons who have been sentenced to a prison in accordance with their personal arrangements. Because of the meaningful changes in the law before us, we will truly support the law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much. And also Mr Anton Urh on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u207	Mr Vice-President, Mr State Secretary, honourable Members and Members. At the Ministry of Justice, they prepared a new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions concerning only two amendments to the existing law. First time. It is the abolition or abolition of a special medical commission established by the last amendment of this law, i.e. in the previous term, and it is competent to decide whether the sentenced person may be suspended from prison for a serious illness or whether the sentenced person may be suspended from prison for the purposes of treatment. Through practice, the Ministry of Justice concludes that this commission does not serve the purpose for which it was established and therefore the proposer proposes to abolish it. In order to protect the rights of convicts, time limits are also laid down for the drawing up and transmission of the opinion of this Commission to the Court or the Institute for the Emancipation of Prison Penalties, which has proved to be virtually impractical. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we also believe that it is prudent to abolish the healthcare commission and that the rights of convicts will not be reduced, as the suspension of the sentence will still be decided by the competent court, which also has the possibility to obtain the opinion of a medical expert in a particular case. The second amendment relates to the arrangements for the suspension of the removal prison imposed in the infringement proceedings. Now these people are being placed on open offices. The Ministry notes that, as a rule, it is almost without exception for perpetrators who are severely unregulated, so they present a problem for open departments, where, as a rule, convicts who have already reached such a level of personal maturity during their term of imprisonment can be expected not to abuse such a more free regime. Members of the DeSUS believe that the proposed regulation has been proposed by the applicant after careful consideration and after analysis of the actual situation, so we are assessing the proposed regime as appropriate. The DeSUS Group, having examined the amendment proposal, concluded that the implementation of these amendments does not constitute an infringement of the rights of convicted persons, which is crucial for our agreement on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the 16th and 30th minutes vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u209	Good-bye. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. The orange light must burn on the right side of the card inserted. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - these are questions from Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, we will decide, in accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, to vote on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning austerity measures in the Slovenian health system. We're voting. He's here. [[68]] Member and Members, 33 votes against 35. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 35.]] Excuse me? It's not working? Let's try it again. May I take it that the vote has been properly carried out? There were 33 votes in favour, 35 against. The proposal is not accepted. Mr. Jelinčič, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u210	Mr. President. Given that two voting devices have not worked, please repeat the vote. They have informed their colleagues in due time that the matter is not working, and please, if the vote can be repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr Jelinčič, I am reminded that there is no repetition of the vote in the Rules of Procedure unless we find that the voting apparatus is not working. However, it has just been found that the voting apparatus has worked and I am asking that we consider the vote valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u212	President, if you'll excuse me, the voting device didn't work. That is what both fellow Members have warned us that the voting apparatus is not working. Only later did the intervention of one of the other colleagues, who went to repair something there, become operational.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u213	Mr Jelinčič, I do not want to change the established practice, except that the vote was 33:35. At least three votes were missing so that your proposal could be adopted. One voice couldn't decide that. Please consider the vote valid. Mr Jelinčič's proposal is not accepted. We are moving on to the proposal of Mr Jožet Tank that the National Assembly decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Jože Tank's question on legislative changes in the judiciary. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. If anyone else wants to sign up on behalf of the Group of Members, please sign up. I'm sorry, I put the vote wrong. Please sign up again. Not a name. Sign up, Mr. Jelinčič. Mr. Jože Tanko and the Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarians have been reported. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. In this mandate, we have already had the opportunity to correct legislation in the field of justice in a relatively short time. We had before us and discussed the amendment of the Law on Lawyers, where even the unscrupulous conduct of the Ministry led to a decision at the Constitutional Court. We also had a change to the Penal Code, where in the end, after all the peripetions and treatments, we adopted, in fact, a banal amendment to the law, unnecessary. There have also been several other government actions in this short period of time, such as a forecast of a significant increase in judges' salaries, as well as an amendment to the Notary City Regulation, as the number of notaries has changed or decreased by one quarter. The President of the Republic also sent his initiative to the National Assembly in order to hold a broad debate on the area of justice. If I am not mistaken, today the presidents of the parliamentary parties were given his initiative to discuss justice and constitutional changes more widely also by the presidents of the parliamentary parties. And I think that very much attention must be paid to this area. We also have a number of decisions or a number of court decisions which are very disproportionate in terms of the weight of the cases under consideration. We had, say, the case of a police officer who threatened the former Prime Minister online, so in writing. He was dismissed and then, by a decision of the working court, it was imposed that he should be taken back to work and charged all wages and settled or added to this lost working period. We also have another case of former MP Rupar, who was sentenced to seven months in prison for his statement. This is based on a statement that someone has given to the defendant, one witness that this statement should have been made. This is a highly disproportionate charge, and the penalties are also very disproportionate. On the one hand, a serious threat, including liquidation, exoneration and recovery of lost material matters, on the other hand, criminal matters. For all these reasons, I think we should have a thorough debate in this National Assembly. Especially before accession to the debate on constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I think the area of justice is one of the most disorderly areas in Slovenia. The fact is that the judiciary, the prosecution and the legal profession essentially take power and lead the country to where they belong. Not a positive change, but a change in the fact that certain people in certain circles will first decide, judge and judge. I think it's very bad that the judges leave their way to make a deal, as she thinks. With judges who have won 15% of their salary at this recession, when people lose their jobs, these judges are actually making career progress on their way. But that's not enough for them. They have a virtually life term, and that's not enough for them. They have virtually no responsibility, and that is not enough for them. They have absolute immunity from prosecution and also from civil prosecution. And that's not enough for them. I know some lawyers are in a lot of pain over there on my right, and their wives, who are also judges, but what's true is true! I think people like that don't judge in there, or at least cut their tongues. And there's one more thing. But if this profession is related to the police, it's even worse. The fact is, the judiciary is abusing its positions of own interest. The incompetence of the Slovenian judiciary has been proven and is evident in many cases. After all, the German Commission was expelled from the courts because it found, within a very short period of time, even a number of inadmissible errors, violations, cases that could be rectified, and yet no one wanted to correct them. It is high time, at least in the National Assembly, we opened this debate and put some things in place. It is not said that it will succeed, for the ruling coalition has already positioned itself on the side of the judiciary, for which they will probably regret in three and a half years. Many other ruling positions were saddened by the opposition’s later opposition and their own decision hit them on the head. I'm afraid that's what's gonna happen at this time. To avoid this, let us at least open the debate and try to resolve some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u217	For the truthfulness, correctness and appropriateness of the explanation of vote, as long as it is within the framework of the content proposed, everyone is responsible, so I will not interrupt anyone, but must remain within the content. We therefore vote on Mr Tank's proposal. 36 Members and Members voted in favour, against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal is not accepted. According to the proposal of Mr Petr Verlič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Petr Verlič's mission concerning the freezing of European highway building funds in Slovenia. Mr. Verlich, please. I am applying for a debate on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Victory Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we will support the proposal for a debate on this topic. In fact, the topic shows the strange attitude of the European Union to the Republic of Slovenia, to Slovenian people, to citizens and also to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it is high time that one day the idea of what the European Commissioner is doing when he is holding back money and why he is holding it back. Who's up for it? Why did the matter turn only when the Italian Commissioner took office?Oh, my God! Why didn't it happen before? Why are things not taken into account and compared with the Czech Republic, Italy or any other country within the European Union, so as not to speak at all about Croatia, whose name and the word of which has a significantly greater weight in the European Union than Slovenia. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I think we need to open our eyes here and, above all, clear our minds, and finally lay down guidelines that together we will know what needs to be done, how we need to react in our discussions with the European Commissioner. Perhaps we should take a more substantial stand. I think so. And I think that with a more firm attitude and a more equal and equal performance, not with a performance from below up like a student to a teacher, but at least equally, we could achieve a lot of things. It would be even better if our relationship with the principal was with the teacher. But it's going to be a long time before that, because some Slovenians have the predominant slave gene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I have addressed the Minister of Transport with regard to the freezing of European funds, due to the alleged discriminatory nature of the vineyards already on 30 March. There was still time for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to respond decisively to the European Commission and also in accordance with European law, which, in this case, I am sure, also protects us. Unfortunately, the answer came from the Minister of Transport only yesterday when we have a law amending the wine system already in Parliament. I asked the Minister of Transport, the Government, to present the official documents on which Slovenia has already been convicted. In particular, because the Minister of Transport himself in public has declared that only the European Court can decide on the discriminatory nature of the introduction of wines. We received an official reminder from the European Commission dated 2 October 2008, asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for explanations. And these explanations should be delivered within one month. And look, on 30 October 2008, we get a letter from the official, not the European Commission, in which it already says that the European Commission will probably stop and not freeze, but stops the decision-making process on European means for the motorway section. It is a cradle, but it certainly has harmful consequences for the country of Slovenia, for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the harm? Because, in our opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not protected interests as a sovereign Member State, and the harmful consequences will be felt by all who, if this proposal for the amendment of the wine system is adopted, will pay 73% of the price of wine. This is because someone has not defended his views with all legal arguments, but on the basis of a letter from an official of the European Commission, he has already decided to change the wine system. I propose, indeed, that we hold this debate in the National Assembly and support this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u221	I see applications for a debate on my own behalf. Please, who wants to discuss signing up?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also believe that the problem is so acute that it cannot be brought to an end in a procedure such as the question of time, where time is very limited, so I support an extended debate to be held at one of the next meetings. I also take the floor because I myself have asked the Minister of Transport a similar question concerning the quality of motorways, local and regional roads, because we know that they are not made at the best level. Therefore, the debate on the road programme, as proposed by colleague Verlic, could be held at one of the next meetings, so I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. The debate on vignettes would certainly be very interesting, but especially from the perspectives of the current government. It is true that the decision on vignettes was mainly political and completely confused with any economic and economic logic, but in particular with the logic of the development of Slovenia, especially the balanced development of Slovenia, because when you decided to introduce blames on the basis of a public opinion survey, without serious analysis, you interrupted the source, which was also intended to build the development axes. The decision of the former government to pay the vignettes resulted in the fact that we no longer cover the liabilities for the repayment of credits hired for the construction of motorways. The system of financing motorways has changed dramatically in the previous term, the petrol toll has been earmarked in a minimum form and has been built by borrowing loans. Today, we find that vines do not provide funds for the payment of credits that build motorways. And, of course, the question is how to solve this problem, to pay for what is being built and what is already being built, and how to provide a source for the new development axes that we all so eagerly expect, because we also want to have other development priorities on these European routes, the fifth and the tenth corridors, as well. This vignette system does not allow or completely endanger it, so it is necessary to adopt a law that will remedy this irregularity, in order to prepare solutions as soon as possible to prepare tolling in the free traffic flow to pay as much as you transport. This must be our goal to remedy the existing situation, and I will vote against this debate because it will not lead to any solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. I am one of those who will certainly support my colleague Verlic's proposal that the National Assembly should carry out a broader discussion, because in this case, however, it is a matter of interest, which would be worth presenting to the general Slovenian public, because it seems to me that the Government should also pay attention to other topics in the field of the Ministry of Transport at this time, not only because the Minister of Justice was dealing with this issue when he was not a minister at all. This attention would be given to focusing on other areas, such as road safety, which has fallen significantly in recent times. I am afraid that these negative trends will worsen as the so-called holiday season approaches. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should therefore, in this case, protect the interests of our citizens and citizens and clearly depart from this interest. Only that he was exposed to this very highway section of Slivnica-Drazenci shows that for all of this there is a strong lobby of neighbouring Croatia, which has its interests here, but which blurs and puts Slovenia's interests in another worse position, and should not give up. I will therefore support this proposal, which allows for a broader debate on this subject in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u228	Good-bye. I will also support the debate myself, although I think it is a little late, given that the Minister was not present for a while, I would have answered this question, which was raised months ago. We have a proposal for amendments to the law in the procedure at this meeting. And this proposal, which, on the one hand, auctions vignettes from €55 to €95, simultaneously reduces the inflow from this heading to the budget in the highway budget. So who's breaking this system? The current minister and the current government because they incompetently incompetently proposed the worst possible solution. On 1 July last year, when the system was introduced, data stands, we have a report for last year of Darsa, which collected 20% of the funds from this title. Instead of duly justifying in the last six months before the European Commission that the system is not discriminatory in relation to the 12th Article of the EU Treaty, which speaks of citizenship and the rest of it, it has submitted itself to this temptation and has proposed the worst possible solution. Not to be overlooked as to the discriminatory nature of this system. Also, seven-day vignettes will not prevent this same European community from justifying that the system is also discriminatory after a new one. The system is not discriminatory because it deals in the same way with those who drive on the roads and we are from the Republic of Slovenia, like everyone else. Same way. However, it is the right of each country to determine, according to its macroeconomic capabilities, what this price is and what Slovenia has done. However, what the current Minister of Transport is doing when he is teasing the guilty and, on the other hand, in assessing the consequences of the law, he makes it public that, despite the fact that he is exasperating the guilty, the income is less, but it is a disaster. It's a disaster, a disaster! Which should be discussed in the National Assembly and prevented from doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u230	I would like to tell my colleagues and colleagues very simply and I would not like to politicise and make this political charge, which has misled you all, on the one hand and on the other. Look, I've been working with the Commission and the Committee on European Affairs for nine years. Europe promises a uniform system of charging tolls. Europe has not been able to do so, so Europe has allowed the twenty-seven members to regulate their toll system. Our country introduced it with a semi-annual and annual vineyard, and Europe violated all the legislation when it pressed the Republic of Slovenia to freeze the credits for the motorway programme if we do not respond as they want. It's an eclectic breach. The legislation in the field of toll regulation is within the competence of each country, so the Austrians have so, the Germans so, the Italians so. And that's the content we need to talk about. Why we kneel unjustifiably before the request of Europe, which is absolutely unjustifiable and violates the authentic national legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the problem. We'll talk about the vinjet marriage on Tuesday, we'll, we'll leave the vinjets and the prices of vinjets. But Europe has unjustifiably coerced us, and the government has kneeled unjustifiably. Unjustified. Our tolling system, as it was, was ours for good. Slovenian. And he wasn't bad. Now, however, we have bowed down to some requirements that are not formally justified by the European Union. For this reason, I will absolutely support the debate on when Slovenians will, however, respect Slovenians and their own legislation where we still have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This wine system is good for Slovenians and Slovenians. It is therefore necessary to support this debate. Because it is accessible, comparable to common power and many Slovenians can now take their vehicle on the highway, it avoids poor state-owned road infrastructure, which we know is more neglected year after year and that large holes are already very often everyday. For one class of kids, we die on the roads. And what we have done now to increase the flow of the highway cross, of course, by making the vines accessible, is also in favour of increased road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, who is this Italian Commissioner so that Slovenia can freeze funds just like that? This should be decided by the court. I'm afraid he's not satisfied with the outward image of our minister. That's how they say he's too like the Sicilians. Well, our government doesn't respond at all. That is why it is the same as Slovenia. And there's something else I'd like to point out. Listen to what I'm about to say. Slovenians and Slovenians will pay this bill. This account of your stupid actions will be paid again only by Slovenians and Slovenes. For almost 100% of the time, you'll be exasperating the vines. Who is the National Assembly to afford it? And the money will go down in the cash register. There will be less money in the cash register than now, and you will confirm it. Of course, because you are following a servants' request made in Brussels. Shame on you, all of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u233	Mr Pojbič also applied for the debate. Anyone else? Then I'm sorry, I'm giving you a sign-in sign-up. Who else wants to sign up? Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor, an explanation for the vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, start by saying that I will support the proposal. Finally, in our previous mandate, we also supported Liberal Democracy and Zares at the time, and agreed on this, because we know that there were no toll stations in the centre or around the country's centre, so from Domžal to Vrhnika there were actually no toll stations and, I will say, the cream from the centre is a vehicle without ABC or without toll payments. Some today would like to re-enter, in view of the centralisation you are taking, the dear ABC and, in some ways, those who have moved even further away from the city in the countryside or outside the centre. Of course, this is the way I will never agree with myself because, given the economic situation, according to the financial flows, according to economic flows from day to day, there is a need for services to be searched around Ljubljana, as all institutions, all public services, various agencies and, of course, the entire banking sector remain here. Last time we discussed energy, where that part of energy with finance was worth moving to Ljubljana a few years ago. I do not agree with the re- expensive tolling and it is right that Slovenske Gorica and Lendava [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u236	All of you, have a good day. Of course, everyone in good judgment will support the proposal to address this issue in particular at a meeting of the National Assembly, for it reveals one extremely sad fact; this Government, because of its incompetence and ignorance, is already leading an anti-development policy. It further exacerbates the crisis. In the right light, this drastic promotion of vineyards, which will be detrimental to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia and at the same time bring less money into the budget, shines only if it is illuminated from the perspective of yesterday's drastic stimulation of oil derivatives. It is clear that this Government has taken the area of unbridled mollusking of citizens and citizens to fill its overblown budget. This is a strong counter-development action, because at this point we need to know - we are driving on highways built with the money and guarantees of Slovenian taxpayers, and that is why the solutions would be in their favour. On the other hand, the government's policy of inflating excise duties, gasoline, fuel and also fuel in Slovenia makes them more expensive than in neighbouring countries. Even in Austria, which is significantly more developed and has significantly higher wages than the state of Slovenia. On Austrian roads, Austrians drive much cheaper, and they have a much higher standard. This is a perfect representation of where transition leftists bring the country when they sit at the helm. And for this reason, it would be worth revealing and, of course, in the National Assembly, which is also a suitable place for such a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u238	Mr President-in-Office. I will support this proposal. I'll just try to explain why for a while. Here I have a literal record of the Transport Committee meeting, i.e. the 4th emergency meeting on 15 April 2009, Minister Patrick Vlačič said: "We must stress that the European Commission of Slovenia has frozen the decision-making of some 40 million cohesion funds for 2009." And Dr. Patrick Vlačič said at the meeting yesterday that "the procedure against Slovenia has been suspended." So, what does that mean? It cannot be that the funds were frozen if the case was only in the process. Thus, Dr. Vlačič has simply deceived all of us here, but not only deceived - deceived the entire Slovenian public and used this argument as a key argument for this - why change the price of vineyards. I think that this is unacceptable and that it is necessary and at least necessary, because of such arguments, to have a broader debate here in the National Assembly on this subject. I am sure that Mr Minister here has crossed all boundaries not only the good taste of what is allowed under the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would support this proposal if we were not already in law at this meeting and we would have a thorough debate on this and similar matters at this meeting and probably not have to wait for the next meeting. Otherwise, I would support it, because it is only right to know once all the truth about vignettes, vinite systems, data theft and to ask such a question, unfortunately, precisely those who have cooked these problems. The wine system's not good. The vignette system is excellent. The wine system is great for me, it has saved me a little bit, but if I didn't have a function and drive on my own, I would have saved me 300 to 400 euros a year, each of you at least that much. And all of us with this vignette system get a lot in there. However, those who rarely use motorways pay substantially more. And that's why we have to ask ourselves, gentlemen, who pays your toll. People who drive a little along these highways. And we must answer this question, to the question of justice and the great social and economic injustices of this system and the many little tricks you have made with this system and we will be able to discuss this at this meeting, so I will not support the proposal for the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I will not support the proposal for three reasons. First of all, because I have heard from the words of those who support the debate a lot of confusion, for example, even on the Committee on Transport an assessment by one of the co-workers who today support the debate that tolls in Austria are significantly more expensive than in Slovenia, and today, by his client colleague, I hear a claim that is cheaper. So the first reason I'm not going to support this is because obviously the coworkers are confused and they don't know exactly what the data is. Peter Verlich, I suggest you take a look at the tape and you'll see that what I said is true. Second point.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u243	Mr. Yuri, don't use your excuses for controversy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u244	That was the rationale, and I'm going to end it with controversy. Second wheel. The former Prime Minister himself has found that the vignette system will need to be changed and the former Prime Minister himself has announced that shorter-term vignettes will need to be introduced. So even more confusion not only between colleagues, but also with the president of the party and the government. Point three. Because this system introduces more choice options, it actually allows those who use the highway significantly less to pay substantially less and those who use it more pay more. It's the right thing to do. Otherwise, the system, which has already been described, would continue, where in fact citizens who drive once, twice or three times along the highway pay tolls to Members and Members of Parliament. This system, with this change, is therefore significantly more social and, of course, I support it as a Social Democrat. As a result, I do not think such a debate is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. I will support this proposal precisely because of all the inconsistencies and also the transfer of the Minister's replies. We did not find out on the committee, I would say by which arguments the European Union requires this from us and also from the responses in the National Assembly this is not clear. I think that this debate has shown sufficiently that the European Union has been forced to some extent by blackmail and that, in some way, when we first gave in, we have given the opportunity for a Commissioner to force himself in the next phase. We have nowhere to argue that we will also defend the price that we have set ourselves in this proposal, but the Minister will also be able to drop this blackmail, which has already been announced on the Committee in some way, what is the objective of the European Union Secretary requiring a seven-day guilt of €5. So, we don't know what the Minister will bring to us at the final stage and how this National Assembly will decide. But you all forget that a little less than a year ago, we all supported this vignette system as a good one, and this has proved to be the case in practice. Last but not least, the reduction in the number of accidents is also taking place in the trenches of this measure, and when you talk about discrimination and the fact that someone is paying more now, you forget that in the previous system, the vast majority of people on free highways, by motorways "rings", which all taxpayers have built and are only looking for ways to reach certain toll stations and to a large extent. This system has led to the fact that all citizens are in an equal position and that discrimination, which the European Union somehow imposes on us, is not proven by anything. This system, now envisaged by the new law, will not remove this pressure from the European Union [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I will not support this proposal for two reasons. Firstly, because even the debate on vignettes becomes an obvious opportunity for cultural struggle or even for ideological struggle. Secondly, because we are having this debate right now. I've heard a lot of arguments for and against. The fact is that the vignette system we are now introducing is slightly more European, but European in the sense that it is comparable to other neighbouring countries. To prove that if I want to travel to Goriška Brda, where I go regularly, I travel through Italy and from Trieste to Tržič I use the highway, and for this I do not pay a tolar. Recently, however, there was a serious accident in the village of Škofija, where a girl died. And that's after the car wave went back down the old road so we wouldn't pay for the vignette. Because of the absence of short - term vignettes, there is great dissatisfaction right at the border areas. That is why, of course, I will not support such a debate. However, I would advocate one well-founded and serious debate on the vignette system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u250	I regret that you are also encouraging the presidents to discuss this point and strongly urge us to apply for the debate. But that's the point. I believe it's a "lapsus" and you're abusing it. I, of course, won't do that. This is the point at which we should decide whether to hold a debate with the ministers on the answer to the question, not on the broad debate, on the thorough debate, on the in-depth debate, on the long debate, on the broad debate and on and on and on. No, ladies and gentlemen, this item is a typical parliamentary clock that raises very clear short questions in all democratic parliaments. Ministers, ministers shall answer orally and, only in exceptional cases, a debate shall be held on this basis. I would like to hear the debate on the wine system in Slovenia. Prepare No, Mr Jerovšek, you're wrong. [[...]] Prepare the material in which you will describe in detail what led you to introduce blames in Slovenia, where there were errors in introducing, where problems arose, when these things needed to be adapted in the interim period. I hope that we will come once again in a different way of tolling, but of course this cannot be discussed within this point. I propose that we agree for the future that the vote on the answers or on the debate on these questions is immediately on the contrary. It's not gonna happen that someone comes in here, three minutes to tell their story, and the minister comes in one way or another, goes home. There were three ministers here last night, and we were two Members at nine o'clock last night. So, there is no point to this point if we do not take it as I said, so that we are Members sitting in the Chamber, all ministers with the President of the Government in charge there and we have a so-called parliamentary hour. I won't support [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Of course, I will also support this proposal to hold a general debate or in-depth debate on this issue. It would be very beneficial for all of us, but especially for Minister Vlačič, to have this debate two or three or even four months earlier, because I am convinced that all these arguments, which we are also present here today through explanations of vote, could be presented to each other. One bunch of deceptions, one bunch of untruths here, and the fact that the vignette system introduced in 2008 is bringing less money into the DARS budget is simply not true. We know that more money was collected by means of a vignette system than it was by means of toll collection, that the system was discriminatory. For who? Certainly not for Slovenian citizens. Now, with a new law, which will of course be discussed, this discrimination would appear that we will pay more to Slovenian citizens, and apparently some coalition members for foreigners would obviously want the toll to be free at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. Out of the six-month vignettes we have now paid €35, monthly vignettes will now be introduced for €35. Who's going to be in a discriminatory position again? And that's all I'd add. If everyone listened to Comrade Barovic, who said very simply, I think it would be understandable to everyone that this debate should be held and that the law you have tabled should be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Once again, let me explain why I proposed that a general debate be held. The question was made clear: What are the legal bases on which the European Commission can assess the discriminatoryness of vineyards and what are the legal grounds on which the European Commission can force a Member State by freezing European funds to finance motorways? I asked these two questions, and I asked the minister to get the papers, the board's conclusions. Turns out it's not like there aren't gonna be any of these documents and there won't be. Roadways in a Member State for passenger vehicles may be chosen by the Member State at its discretion, not only by the price of the vignette. Because, as far as prices are concerned, foreigners will have no advantage, they will pay the same price. The weekly vignette of 15 euros, for 14 days via Slovenia probably goes to Croatia and back, pays 30 euros. Well, the commission won't be happy again. And that's all I asked is why the government didn't react when we already have a whole range of legal opinions that show that the next statement of discrimination against citizenship is not. Here we are all the same, Slovenians, Italians, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, all pay wine or half a year or a year, all of us can drive on highways or on side roads and all of us, indisputably, have benefits from vineyards. The problem that the ruling coalition obviously has is that the proposaler was guilty of someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. I will not support this proposal by Mr Verlic, nor will I support the matters proposed by the people who have cooked all this and today we have to cook this soup in some way to the end. In the well-intention of the opposition I no longer believe and the word "good-for-nothing" has become one foreign in my life. A arsonist who wants to be a fire brigade commander, people -- that's not going to work anymore. If the previous government had properly implemented the procedure for introducing vineyards - both in terms of price and communication with Europe - such a question would not be necessary today and would not have to be amended by law. Why won't I back you up? There are two other reasons. Mr Verlich and the team have proposed an extraordinary meeting. We had an extraordinary session. At this session, we have five hours of debate on the same law that you are proposing today, and with your ideas of "getting out". When you're talking about the price that the vignette system raised more money - that's not true. You have that data when it was collected six months after the old system and it was collected by the vignette system for six months. So they don't hold your data. And that's what Minister Patrick Wlačič said clearly and loudly. And I could explain a lot. I would almost agree with Mr President of Parliament when he said he would support this debate, because probably Slovenians and Slovenians would see where it was going. The blames were another package of SDS political marketing last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you very much. That's enough debate? Procedurally, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u258	Mr President, I expected you to react because you obviously did not, but then it should be very clear that, of course, even in explaining your voice, there is no way to avoid it, but what you, Mr President, now portrayed by the SD Member, which you did not immediately warn against the Rules of Procedure, was pure personal accounting and direct personal controversy, which has nothing to look for in explanation for all the principles of this Parliament. Because you only took the opportunity because you knew that Dr. Verlich could no longer answer you, because the answer is very simple - because you gave up the right to complain, you actually cooked it in a coalition. We have done something good for the citizens, and you will mess it up with your kitchen and ruin it because you don't know the law because you don't use those normal legal routes that are even the basis of it in the European Union. And the authority to determine the tolls and even the system is entirely the jurisdiction of the state itself, and even your minister, ladies and gentlemen knows that, but why the hell don't you do that? This response would be an answer that could be sought in the context of this debate here instead of abusing the explanation of vote for personal accounting in order to cover the fact that we are now more expensive to drive on highways with more expensive petrol, with significantly lower personal income than the Austrians, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u259	Mr. Grimes, I'm asking you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u260	You know, it's all over the border. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u261	Mr Grims, if anyone has abused the Rules of Procedure today, you are once again rude, but really rudely done by you. I'm not surprised or think you'll do otherwise, but at least be partially receptive to the Rules of Procedure and the warnings. Mr. Tanko, you want a word? The position, the explanation of the voice. [[...]] Mr Tanko please.There are still applications, I am warning you that Mr Anderlič would not urge me to encourage the debate. [[...]] Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, of course I will not support this proposal. Today, much has been said about the vineyards that were brought to mind, which were only introduced because the story in the budget was being solved. As soon as the vinjets were introduced, someone was talking about it today, along the border in Koper, in all local communities gravitating on a fast road, on a highway, happening on weekends of heart attacks. Someone was saying that there was also death, and that's true, and you cooked all this because you didn't care what was going on. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] I apologize, Mr Vice-President, for what I have said, I have no intention of violating the Rules of Procedure, but all that has been cooked and all the laws that have been passed must be corrected in order to bring order to this country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u263	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe that the debate is necessary and as necessary. The fact is that an official in the European Union cannot command a country of the European Union, I am not talking about the Commissioner, but we are talking about an official who wrote an opinion. And this opinion should be taken to the debate and answered to the European Union, and this official should be answered. And this minister hasn't done it, he's been late for six months with an answer because the government hasn't acted. I agree with the fact that the pyromen can't be good firefighters, but the pyromen said before the elections that they can run the country better, and today, when they're firefighters, we'll have the most expensive vignette or one of the more expensive vignettes, they'll be twice as expensive, we've got one of the most expensive petrol and oil derivatives, and we've got a lot of expensive stuff, and what's not expensive, and they'll take it away from us to finance the country. And it's true that arsonists can't be good firefighters. It is also true that we have done this in our Government inadvertently and incompetently. This points to the incompetence and incompetence of this Government, which cannot even respond to Brussels, to this official who would like to command the country of Slovenia. They don't even know how to answer them, or they don't love them, which is worse if they don't love them. Ignorance can still be tolerated, but no more laziness. And in this case, the government hasn't responded to that official's letter in almost six months. I therefore believe that it is necessary to hold a debate on this, so that something like this would not happen in the case of Croatia, in order not to react to the opinion of an official or a Commissioner. And I'm afraid that could have happened. It is therefore necessary to recall, in this case, that the opinions of various officials from the European Union need to be answered "promptly" that the Government will not show in addition to incompetence and incompetence of laziness.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole has words.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u266	Nicely greeted! I won't support the proposal. However, I am not sure that I would like to have an additional debate, at least here I do not see the record that I would like to be the former Minister of Transport to talk about this more. Discriminatory is indeed not a pleasant word, especially if today there are no rights to all the same, especially for those who are driving on roads that are not completed, but I do not think that this is the fault of the government for the last half of the term. Perhaps something could be accelerated in the past, but the past has passed. The incompetence of this government alone would not be at all talked about, and I also think it is wrong that some of our colleagues here, or whatever, are discussing that someone is incompetent, because they usually say that it is more appropriate for each of us to go to their own doorsteps. And if anyone had any other good chance to do for the Slovenes and Slovenians, so that everyone would also have a level playing field, especially a transport link to central Slovenia, I think there were opportunities. So sometimes they say that the opportunity is missed, no one comes back. Therefore, I know that this government is indeed not easy, especially in the field of transport. Let's be right and help each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u268	I will not support this decision, not because I think it would be a shame to discuss it. I agree with the President of the National Assembly that we will have the opportunity to talk about vineyards for a long and wide time at this very meeting. However, I would like to say that I feel it is a shame that in such a debate some truths that none of the right-wing people would want to talk about will come to us on a day like this. For example, that it is Umar; those who do not know what it means; the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development; calculated last year before the vignettes were introduced, that the maximum price for an annual vignette of 150 euros should be a more moderate price, which is still acceptable, and 120 euros. And those who today talk a lot and discuss how terrible this annual price proposed by the current government is, of course, silent and do not even mention the fact that they were aware of the fact that when they introduced the blames, they set the price of 55 euros per year for the guilt, knew that it was more than 100% too low a price if they wanted to cover the costs or resources; it is no dispute that no one would think, but it is simply an explanation of why I think it would be a shame that some would embarrass themselves in the debate on the Minister's response to the question about the wine system. So I think it's better that you vote against it too, fellows.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. I would like this debate to be the Minister's response. Because it's still unclear why the minister is entering into a change in the vignette system, to encourage the annual vignette. For the first motive to make too little money out of the system is not to hold. Because the minister himself says, according to the news, it's going to be less than 30% less. The second reason for requesting the European Union is also not proven. We have received a letter from an official from the Minister, I don't know what it's for, but it's not a document on the basis of which a country is taking action. I'm afraid there's something else in the back. Is there some kind of slave relationship emerging towards the European Union, which I would be very concerned about. For six years ago, when we were talking about merging with the European Union, membership, there was a three-quarter speech on how to protect national autonomy, so that we would not fall back into Yugoslav federal dependence, and that is probably not the reason. And I'm even more afraid that the reason why we're taking a meaningless issue is so that we can say, "The previous government has made mistakes and we have to fix it." Look at the example of the Penal Code. We've adopted some pointless article, and I don't know how we dealt with this problem in order to prove that Sturm's marriage sucked. I think that there is a danger for the Slovenian state and that, such motivation, such intentions are worth serious debates in the National Assembly, so I will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. There were a lot of words here about discrimination. If this project, introduced by the previous government, is so discriminatory, why did you not terminate and abolish it for six months, but you upgraded discrimination by raising prices substantially, by increasing the number of classes and by publicly saying that resources will flow into this toll section significantly less. The normal government would have made a reverse process. Why am I saying that this change is discriminatory? Because those who have low wages and have to say from Jessenic to Ljubljana will pay twice as much as they have paid so far. Two times harder workers will pay this price, which is now valid, and at the same time it will be significantly lower incas. Even in the area of highway construction, nothing has changed. Before that, there was an extremely large debate on how and how to build motorways with loans. You have a bill of 320 million euros in guarantees for the construction of motorways, your government has proposed it, and this law alone means half of the annual road construction programme. Why don't you change that? Why are you taking this intergenerational solidarity forward? Because the things that the previous government has done are so bad? Then I would expect the new government to change things radically. Not that what you're saying is that you're bad at upgrading it and that you're still kind of "dispersing." I will support the proposal for a debate because I think it makes sense and makes sense because those who criticize the introduction of vineyards forget that this has also reduced the number of road accidents and the number of victims, the disabled and also the deaths. In any event, the vignette system also contributed to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We move on the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač that the assembly decide on the following proposal: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Milan Martin Cvikl to the question of Zvonko Černač regarding the government plane Falcon and air transport." On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u274	In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will support the debate on the answer, because we have practically not received an answer. We have not received an answer as to the total cost of air transport that the Government, the Ministry, the President of the State and the other budgetary users have incurred at a time when Falcon is standing somewhere in America and, as we have heard, caused taxpayers over 100,000 euros in costs within a few months. Falcone, a former LDS government, bought $35 million six years ago instead of the originally envisaged brother, for whom taxpayers were to pay up to $42 million. Falcone was not in Slovenia for an hour. After that, the former Robbins government leased it for five years, which ended in February of this year. However, the contract was drawn up in such a way that the lessee could not terminate the contract and only the lessor could do so. So Falcone does not return to his nest, as was said days ago, but returns to his former masters. The cost, which has been standing for some time, will cost Slovenian taxpayers more than 100,000 euros to repair those few scratches, as said, to spend at least 1.5 million euros. The value of this aircraft is currently estimated at $14 million by experts. Thus, in five years, the loss — or 20 million dollars — paid by Slovenians and Slovenians were realized. In five years, we got as much for renting a plane as we would have earned in one year. Yesterday, the Secretary-General said that this aircraft flew for an average of 800 hours a year. The cost of an hour of such an aircraft is about $9,000. It means $7.200,000. $7.500,000 was a five-year lease. And now that this aircraft is heard to cross the Slovenian border, taxpayers and taxpayers will pay only $7 million for the tax. So we are approaching the third wrong decision. Unfortunately, it is cooked in the same political boiler as the decision to purchase this aircraft was also made. There is still time to prevent even more foolishness, which makes the discussion of the answer necessary. It is a significant damage to public finances and I am counting on the current Minister of the Interior, who is very active in researching some butterflies, to explore the responsibility for this work of the century. On the other hand, however, we estimate that you will not be able to do so. If any of the brooms were lost from the plane somewhere, the investigation would probably be ongoing by now. So when the whole plane blew up, we probably won't be able to witness it. We'll support the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 36 Members and Members voted against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] No copy of the decision was adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in connection with the poor investments of Slovenian banks and Banka Slovenije. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Let's do it again first. Of course, the Group of Members will support this, but once again I would like to protest, i.e. I asked the question yesterday to both Mr Mitj Gaspari's Minister for Development and the Minister for Finance. Mr. Gaspari was not in the hall, he did not answer my questions, nor did he apologize to this high assembly. I propose, Mr President, that we protest on behalf of Parliament against such behaviour by a member of the Government. Credit activities are vital to the existence, the development of the Slovenian economy, and banks do not actually credit the Slovenian economy, and even the few credits available are, of course, inaccessible because they are expensive. And, of course, when we examined the details, we first found that, in fact, none of the measures that he had experienced had yet in practice revived this assembly, due to the Government's poor operationality in adopting sub-laws as well as banks. There are also some causes in so-called bad investments or toxic investments and, last but not least, in the tycoon loans approved by these banks through the consent of the supervisory boards. And when the Commission requested detailed information on so-called toxic investments for the supervision of public finances from the Bank of Slovenia, interesting information was obtained. The Bank of Slovenia has two Lehman Brothers bonds totalling €28 million. Thus, the Bank of Slovenia has €28 million in investments that it will never be able to cash because the bank has failed. I asked who will be responsible for this, who will settle this and, in fact, I conclude that this stems from the previous mandate, when the current Minister of the Bank of Slovenia led the Bank of Slovenia, that there will also be some consequences, some responsibility. I'm afraid there's no answer to that question. More than that, when I asked the finance minister whether he would support and whether he would insist on the reprogramming of Taliban loans on the shoulders of taxpayers; most of these so-called tycoon credits and acquisitions, of course, are now unable to finance and repay credits, so they are looking for reprograms at banks; he actually answered me very doubtfully. That it intends to legalise and, of course, also to release these reprogrammes, the bills coming into Parliament, namely the Guarantee Scheme Act, the amendment of this law, made it possible before the opposition amendment was adopted to allow the reprograms. So on these questions, the honourable Vice-President and the honourable assembly, we would like a public debate because we have not received the answers, not the ones that are useful at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. Can we vote? No, no, no. Then I give my word to Mr Jerovsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Respected, with regard to the poor investment of Slovenian banks and Bank of Slovenia and the behaviour of the tycoons and their associated bankers, which have provided unsecured loans to be paid by Slovenian citizens in the context of the new rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, it is necessary to have a thorough debate and to receive thorough answers, but not only from the finance minister, including from the Minister of Justice of Kresalova. For the fact that the state did not react to the fact that it was a betrayal of the country, because it brought Slovenia into a subjugation, it was an attack on its independence, and it was sabotage. What it says in sabotage: Anyone who insidiously, insidiously or otherwise causes serious harm to the public authority or organisation in the performance of his or her duties shall be punished in the same way." But no one is chasing these people; we are witnessing a different situation; the state has given a guarantee to help small businesses; these funds have now been legalised by the Government to be used to reprogram these tycoon loans. See, there is also a lot of other things going on; the Police Minister is in fact instituting or in a stealthy way major changes to the Police and Police State Act. We have now learned that they want to replace the current police director because she misinterpreted that the police are independent. He didn't want to prevent an investigation against Jankovic and Chapin for that million-euro transfer, for a fictitious remittance, that's empty. Your coalition reportedly demanded that Jankovic be left alone. This is happening in the country and the answers to this need to be obtained here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko wants the word. Anyone else? I'd ask you who wants to sign up now so we can close this circle. If possible, I will also be terribly grateful, and probably not just me, if anyone else is really going to explain why they want to discuss it, but not talk about everything else. As a rule, you all do. I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of vote. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The operation of Slovenian banks has been untransparent since 1992. So there was a lot going on, and since things were different back then, there was a lot of cover-up. Thus, all of us together, taxpayers and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, had to pay money and this huge amount of money to save these banks. Nobody knew how much money went where, who hit him where they took him. Even today, there is no telling what is going on with the various exposures of the Ljubljana Bank around the world. Nor is it known where certain financial assets of these banks went, nor does it know who was the one who took the money from these banks, even in various cases, different containers, and carried a variety of things, even on various islands, and there created a certain financial paradise for some who are now very well hiding behind the cover of inviolability. This inviolability has actually enabled them to have a former ruling structure at different times, and I think it is high time to open at least one of these. The fact is that in Banka Slovenije not only these two shares of Lehmans Brothers are controversial. There is still a lot of paper that needs to be talked about and explained why there has been an investment in some papers, even at a time when it was already known that there are things on very torn legs and that they can be confused. I also hope that the police minister will open an investigation in this area. However, the debate in the National Assembly on this subject is certainly necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you very much. In this mandate, I have asked two written questions with which I wanted to obtain information on the investments of Banka Slovenije and other banks owned by the majority in such failed projects as Lehman Brothers. If you look at our side and read the government's answers, then you will see what they wrote down there - extremely demeaning to Members. I also asked the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia what he would do if it was found that any of the ministers were involved in investment, in papers that no longer exist, in securities that had failed. There was no answer. Now that we have received this report from Banka Slovenije, we see that one of the governors of Banka Slovenije bought EUR 38 million of these investments and this money is no longer possible to return to Banka Slovenije because Lehman Brothers Holdings has collapsed. This money is as much as the annual amount for the entire student diet. This is the project that the current government is trying to modernise. And I must say that such a great loss that has been caused in Banka Slovenije and for which we have now carried out through the Banka Slovenije report must be discussed in the National Assembly and also determined whether to agree on what to do with those who have caused such a great loss in the financial system. I do not think that postponing, avoiding these issues and discussions is at the level of this Government, which wants to work transparently and transparently. If this is what you want, then support the proposal for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksic has applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President. There have been a lot of dust raised in this country, but there are some results, although in Chapter 13 of the Penalty we have committed against the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and its democratic constitutional order also Article 350, the attack on the independence of the State and says: "The citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who is trying to bring the Republic of Slovenia into subjection, is being punished" and so on. Slovenia is currently in a subjugated position because gross domestic product has begun to lagging behind. Over the past four years, we have started to get closer to the average of the European Union and, of course, we are now in a subjugation in this economic area, which is, of course, felt by citizens and citizens even with daily layoffs. And today we should actually talk about how to punish people. It would be necessary for law enforcement institutions to apply and, in other words, to amend criminal legislation in order to help law enforcement institutions to be held accountable for this attack on state independence. Let's ask ourselves how, and where, say, I think, I read in yesterday's newspaper about mayoral salaries, poor Jankovic has, I don't know, 1,800 euros in wages, but 9 million euros in assets. How and in what way did the director of a Mercator enrich with EUR 9 million? So where are the organs now to do this? What about Bavčar, with a million Euros of credit and so on and so on. I'll take the Billion. Excuse me. [[...]] I will support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u285	Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you, Mr. President, for noticing me. The debate on banking and the banking system would be very welcome and very useful for many reasons. It is the control or, if we are precise, the lack of supervision in the financial system at global level that is at the root of the current economic crisis. That's something we can deal with indirectly. However, it is indisputable that even in the Slovenian banking system, everything was not as it must have been when it came to granting certain credits, in particular the so-called tycoon loans, which many have been approved in contravention of established banking standards, which we must deal with and therefore this debate is not only welcome, but also necessary. For a comedy that began when the Prime Minister of the Government went on television and said, "I will not allow one euro to go for the tycoons, and two days later it turned out that 150 million euros was a tycoon in Slovenia. This comedy is still going on. The fact is that the one who signed it at the time and who then exhibited a rather tragic comedy of confusion also in the ruling coalition that had not yet ended, and in some ways this proves the true statement of the key actor when he offered the resignation and was resolved by the supervisors, reacting with surprise, was in shock as far as possible. He probably got political assurances that it wouldn't happen to him and that he was just doing what we all know with his finger crossed we also saw in the picture that he was the basis for an election victory, that's what it says. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] money from sources, which then allowed a change in the last elections, and thus unfortunately opened the way to ignorance and incompetence of which we will now pay the fruits, not just us, but [[...]] [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 36 Members and Members voted in favour, against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] The proposal is not accepted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Branko Marinič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of the question of the question of Mr Branko Marinič, on the procedures for the adoption of spatial acts. On behalf of the delegation? Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u288	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess, in view of the reply of the Minister responsible for the environment and space, that yesterday it was quite a slaughterhouse and in some of my questions it was not sufficiently processed. Just the fact that 155 Slovenian municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia are waiting for municipal spatial plans makes it clear that none of the officials responsible in this area is in a hurry. For a simple reason, the Ministry responsible for the environment and space should also take into account in these times of crisis the Government's announcement that this crisis will have to be used positively in some contexts. This would mean that if all operators of space regulation were to work in this direction in real terms, in order to simplify or even reduce certain procedures and formalities relating to space regulation, this would also mean an opportunity for a number of construction companies, and in particular for those who would like to invest in the construction of some of the assets, because of the expansion of their activities would certainly mean a great deal of positive during this crisis period. However, in his reply, the Minister argued that this was not true, which I asked him that some acts were waiting in the Minister's office after three weeks and then expired all the rest of the time and that it was to be reversed in all the proceedings, the Minister argued that this was a lie, even though I relied on the content that I had received from those services responsible for these procedures. Of course, it seems to us that, in this regard, with regard to environmental and space regulation and to unreasonablely long waiting periods, once again, I stress that 155 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia would be worth talking about in the National Assembly, and we expect you to support this in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u289	Mr. Blackach wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u290	In view of the usual way of voting, I assume that this debate will not be supported. For that reason, I would suggest that the Minister hears these words or that he obtains a magnetogram of this session. This year, all municipalities are to adopt municipal spatial plans. This is a fundamental planning document on which the position depends or depends on the development potential of municipalities. So far, I think that these municipal spatial plans that went through the government or the ministry were one or two. Certainly less than fingers on one hand. We've heard that there are 155 in procedure. We will not succeed in this way, or those who are being Tangled will not be able to realize their ambitions. It is true, however, that this is not only an issue of the Ministry of Environment and Space but also of other ministries, because the acts touch on various areas of action and I think it would be right for the Ministry to make it possible to release this cramp in some way by amending the regulations and adopting appropriate guidelines which it can adopt. For here too there was some convulsion in this area. This is in the interest of both the development of local communities and the development of the whole country. I will, of course, support the debate on this issue, because I think that in the debate we could clarify where the problems are and what the obstacles are, that we cannot do this problem that has been arising for a while and that it is like a snowball bigger from day to day, from month to month, that we simply break and allow things to go smoothly in this area. I'll support the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u291	Mr Marinič, he also wants to explain his voice in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your word. You know, I'm basically not involved where I don't think I am, but it seems to me that we're in a very difficult area. I believe that colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which political options we belong to, have also encountered in our work a number of family housing problems, particularly outside the city centres. It would be helpful to support this debate in order to speak and perhaps get a number of individuals waiting for appropriate construction documentation for individual construction and thus to solve their housing problems. At least I can say that in my work in the office, I have met with many wishes of individuals who would try to solve their housing problem with individual construction. Indeed it is impossible, everyone in the Republic of Slovenia can not have his own house, but in some rounded urban settlements there are many such desires, and it would be worth talking about and getting an appropriate number. Does the Ministry of Environment and Space even have the number of these desires for individual construction and thus the solution to the housing problem? It is certainly worth supporting this proposal in order to respond [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Minister held a broader debate on my question in the National Assembly, which is why, of course, I will support it myself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the proposal, although I am very well aware of the problem faced by the municipalities when you are actually facing a number of difficulties in preparing, particularly in coordinating spatial documents at national level. However, it seems to me that even the proponents of this debate are well aware of all the issues, problems and problems, because the municipalities were still preparing these matters deeply during the time of the government of Mr Janez Janša, and many have also invested and sought answers and consensus on their spatial acts at that time. So I'm sure they need to know very well where those problems are. And it's kind of an exercise today to demand such a debate if we know that these acts have been being prepared for three or four years at local levels, that is, the congregations. And today to say that it is only in the last few months that people can't get to the building permits that it seems like a really bad story. This spasm, which has been discussed, is not a spasm for the last six months, but a spasm for the last three years. And with him, I think there's someone else who's been involved, who knows very well, maybe even answers to what's going on. There have been no changes to the law, there has been no simplification, nor in the mandate of the government of Mr Janez Janša, so I think there is still a number of responsibility, not just the current government that is now supposed to respond to these allegations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you. We're voting. 36 Members and Members voted against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to the question of Mr Pojbič on the issue of increasing unemployment. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u296	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the reply of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, of course, we were not satisfied. We also believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is an extremely problematic and chaotic situation in the area of job loss, as it was only in April that 10,000 employees lost their jobs. And if that's not alarming information, then I really don't know where we live. There are also some 60 bankruptcys in the process. You can think of the consequences. When the Minister responded to me, he stated several times that the Slovenian government was in control of the situation in the area of unemployment. It would therefore be right for this minister to ask those 24,000 people who lost their jobs in the fights for six months, what they think about the government and the minister who runs the labour, family and social affairs department. As I said yesterday, and the Minister agreed, the lowest unemployment was at the end of the government's term of office, Janez Janša, about 59,000, and now this number has risen again to the incredible 83,000 in the six-month fights. The difference is 24,000 unemployed more than six months ago when the government of Janez Janša finished its mandate. That is why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we can rightly be concerned and unable and we do not care what is happening to our citizens and citizens and where the Government is taking another of the most successful transition countries recently. For this reason, in order to prevent the increase in unemployment and the decline in the economic condition of our country, we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party developed a set of measures and laws that have direct and, above all, swift and effective solutions. We are convinced that now is the moment when we can no longer wait for the slow, poor and, above all, reckless behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is taking the country closer to bankruptcy and social crisis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that these arguments are so important that a broader debate in the National Assembly on this issue is urgently needed. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. I must say, from today on, I would have deserved your attention. Even now that you've all been on the opposite side of the government talking so well, it's a problem of unemployment. The group you made with your chat is also an expression of your disrespect for the unemployed. The number of these unemployed has also increased due to the fact that you have not proposed any effective measures on your own, as the Government has now determined. At the same time, you reject the measures proposed by the opposition, which you will not find in any other country. Cooperation is offered everywhere, we offer good suggestions, you reject them. More than that, once we have prepared a whole package of measures, limit the drastic debate so that you do not see the lack of arguments and the lack of knowledge in your species. And that's exactly what your project is for this Friday. This is the reason for this debate. Because it is necessary for these people, for the unemployed, to create new productive jobs, because if anything, it is what gives the basis for everything else. And this is a package of economic development prepared by the opposition. And eternal shame on the government side, not only did you not support it, not only do you not accept it, but you reject it with arrogance, in mockery of all the unemployed, in mockery of all those who at this moment lower their wages and tremble before losing their jobs. You don't have any suggestions, you just don't know who you are, you're incompetence, and at the same time you're so high that you're not able to even allow debates on measures to revive the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you, Chairman. Given that the colleague and colleague have now given an excellent example of good practice, how the voice is really explained, I suggest we give him a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u301	Thank you very much. I won't give you a minute's silence. What I think about your debates is, unfortunately, I don't want to talk out loud, because it won't do any good. There is no such thing as fundamental courtesy and mutual correctness. I therefore propose that we vote on the proposal. Mr. Visjak thinks he needs to discuss himself. Here you go, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u302	You know, the President-in-Office or Vice-President, it's not the time to debate. I don't want to discuss it. I want to explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u303	Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u304	I think that the debate on this burning issue of growing unemployment is more than necessary because it cuts into the fate of many people, families. Government measures in this area are ineffective and do not take action. That is why we have also proposed a package of measures. We believe that the government is without ideas, and even some facts are being reversed. Here I have a letter, a paper from the Ministry of Finance, a presentation of the Ministry of Finance's actions during the financial crisis, saying: "In the mandate of this government, we have prepared 20 amendments to the laws in support of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis." And look at the passage of which laws are among them: the VAT law drafted by the opposition, the law on income prepared by the opposition, the law on the income of legal persons prepared by the opposition, the law on banking prepared by the opposition, the law on public finances prepared by the opposition. Not only is there no idea, not even taking over or stealing from the opposition's ideas. I think that the debate on these issues is more than necessary because of the fact that you are preventing it in the context of an extraordinary meeting. You don't want to face it, you don't want to discuss it when the opposition has also proposed solutions. Therefore, these answers, which have been given by the Minister of Labour on the issue of increasing unemployment, are flawed, misleading and do not produce concrete results. Otherwise, we wouldn't have such sad information. And that. With such ignorantness we will witness even more sad numbers in the future and, of course, the worst of all is yet to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u305	Thank you. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I do not intend to support this debate myself for one very practical reason. In fact, this debate would be premature as long as it takes for gentlemen who have a package, a free package of immediate and high-priority stock measures, to patent these things and successfully export them to foreign markets, for example, Germany, where they know nothing about it, and cannot stop the crisis immediately, and to America, where Mr Obama has been suffering this crisis for quite some time without serious results. They said, "Ours would work immediately, effectively, only that's right, everyone else is practically out of their minds in this story." And for this reason, I recommend that this patent, this supreme discovery, and in this way saves not only us, but also in the foreign and wider world, the economic and financial crisis that is here and now, and which we ourselves, a respected coalition, with all that we are going through, cannot stop in a moment, which would have succeeded, unfortunately, to the gentlemen of the opposition right now. And as it is said that all of this can be realized for a great deal of money, and even for the benefit of our country, we must not support this debate today, so as not to issue something that can be very valuable, but which is not yet patented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u308	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Since there are a number of experts, top economic experts, public finances, international finances, in this Chamber, I am convinced that they have read some report on the financial crisis, the causes, the consequences that have been drawn up by well-known international organisations, which are referred to several times a day. And because they read them, they also read in them that some countries, which were not affected as much by the financial crisis as others, carried out large-scale structural reforms during the global economic transition. And these countries, which have implemented large-scale structural reforms in golden times, today stand slightly better than other countries. And in the past mandate, there have also been changes in records in our country, statistical exercise and numbers have been slightly different than they were in reality. And yes, gentlemen, we share your concerns, too. I'm afraid of what else is going to happen. We can all be justifiably concerned, but what you are doing in this Chamber today is a simple political demagogy. I don't believe your well-intentionedness, as my colleague said before. And what my colleague Znidaršič said, he says everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u309	Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is difficult for a person not to come forward in such discussions, simply to answer and explain his voice, because it seems to me that we go really into such waters and speak in such a way and constantly after some of the doctrines we repeat certain facts and truths that are supposed to be such that all those working in the Government at this time are incompetent, all the measures are inconvenient, all that is done in Slovenia is worthless, unprofessional, and it seems that with the unemployed who are in real trouble they can feel and only those who sit in opposition are affected, but we are not happy that every day we too are reading these news. The debate is completely irrelevant. Even if we talk here for hours and hours about what has been proposed here in Parliament, I do not think we will create any jobs here in Parliament. And it's one such demagogy that I simply think that manipulating everyone will once be avenged and will be manipulated. And lies are the most perverted act that ever happened. And what bothers me constantly is that we have not received from the government of Mr Janez Janša, after we have lived in golden times, no travelers and no dotage whatsoever. Today would have been easier if you'd left us with something, but you didn't. You've left a whole bunch of things unsettled. We've been looking for funding for the student diet in this term, not you. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for kindergartens also in this mandate with these budgets. [[...]] You have made only promises, you have lost everything, and today you are the great saviors that you offer Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Since they're always raising their hands, I'm going to apply to begin my explanation of vote. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u312	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will not support the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because the unemployment we talked about has been a topic for many years, as well as statistics on unemployment. We know how unemployment was falling because records were being cleaned, and we have been alerted to that. I also did not miss the debate on how the measures taken by the previous law, which has already been adopted, were specifically aimed at preserving jobs. And if, in fact, the opposition's attention was to care for those seeking work and for those who lost their jobs, then in the previous term they might have wondered why they had not found any measure against the liquidation of businesses, with a large number of workers losing their jobs. I am concerned that any bankruptcy that is now promised is due to difficult economic conditions. But when we look for ways, there's a lot of promise about what the smart opposition will do. But nothing else can be heard from spitting, belittling, wiping out work and burdening the working bodies and the National Assembly with numerous debates so that they do not engage in discussions about what would bring about any action. It is also a question of who is the one who helps the opposition to come up with such very good proposals for laws. Where did these suggestions grow? That should be asked once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u313	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I had no intention of making this debate public, but what is happening now is absurd. And since you allow, President, absurdity and accusations, this will be allowed to me. Patenting six or five laws and sending them I don't know where, it's called a low-level act of one of the Members who hasn't probably written any of the laws yet. Demagogy, a "blonty" lady talked about it. I have x phone calls today. Gentlemen, my dears, these days, three days ago there were 300 workers working on the road. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Can you calm him down, please, or can you tell him they're giving him some kind of sedative? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u315	You have the word, I'm just warning you, not you too. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u316	Just like the others with me. 300 jobs in Stellarska Nova. My dears, these people worked for 400 euros. The insult to these people is that they come from my environment, and I have to answer that. Definitely. Clearing records is necessary in any case, because among these people who received social support were also people who were not entitled to it. That'd be good if you kept going. No sin, of course, [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] Yes, and Mrs. Potts will need one persene, and give it to her. [[...]] Further need to be said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u317	Mr. Gorenak [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u318	Will you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u319	Please continue the debate, get 10 seconds more, just don't warn anyone about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u320	No, that's what others did. No spitting, no disrespect. We brought a package of laws you don't want to discuss. That's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I will support this debate. I don't think it would hurt anything, maybe it would hurt those sharp words that we're messing with here right now. I do not agree with my fellow Members that this government, the government of Borut Pahor, has done nothing. This government makes a shadow when it's standing in the sun, when the sun isn't there, and there's not even a shadow from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u324	Dear President! One of the Members spoke about international institutions and institutions, and I will now try to quote the OECD warning in Finance on 13 May. The growing economic situation was also highlighted by the OECD report in Slovenia, which was published in the media at the end of last week. According to the OECD, the Pahor government should abolish as soon as possible the social measure on subsidisation of working time, with which government representatives are most praised. On the other hand, the OECD proposes that the Government reconsider the reduction of social contributions to employers, which the Government itself assessed at the end of last year as the best anti-crisis measure, but withdrawn at the request of trade unions. The OECD, by criticising Pahor's anti-crisis measures, also indirectly states that the most important against the crisis in order to relieve the economy and improve the liquidity of the company this year is the definitive abolition of the pay-out tax, which is included in the inherited tax policy measures of the government of Janez Janša. Dear colleague, dear fellow! So much for what the international institutions say about the face of the crisis situation in the Republic of Slovenia by the government of Borut Pahor. And in the end. It is amazing, unacceptable and unreasonable, that in the National Assembly, when one performs a complete demagogy, one of the largest responsible political parties is being applauded in the National Assembly. This is purely a mockery of the problem that we are discussing. If unemployment is not an acute problem for you, then my dear colleagues here at the National Assembly ask: What is the problem for you? And if you are not in the National Assembly to solve these problems, please give the opportunity to do so to others, those who will feel their belongings and responsibility to those who voted for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u325	Mr Pojbič, this was not the explanation for the voice at the end. You know that, too. You took the opportunity, like most of us. And if I may say just one sentence. If any of you think that the problem of unemployment will be solved by discussions like this today, then at least my opinion is not shared. This is pure demagogy and the party performances that we are doing today, to ourselves, we have the right and I am formally giving you the voice. Mr. Anton Kampush is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u326	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Just what was said now led me to get up and try to say something. But I'm trying to say something with a calm head, a calm voice, and so on. And yet I do appreciate that you have to stop some horses, respected friends. There's a crisis all over the world. And the reason for the crisis is the lack of work around the world. The reason for the crisis in Slovenia is labour shortage. And even at the expense of that, there's a bit of a job decline, which is normal and that's the way it is. However, this is not so rigorous, because I am convinced that the measures taken by our government to prevent the crisis are being taken slowly. And within these measures there are also many who have limited or limited the decline of jobs in Slovenia. I think our economy is picking up a little bit. I have the latest information. Most good companies in Slovenia have jobs, work is increasing, there is no decline, so it is expected to improve. However, as regards some of the measures presented recently, they should be classified in three groups. Most of these measures are already in place, some are in preparation and some are irrelevant and must be rejected. All those experts who get to know each other about matters know what economic restructuring means. Dear friends, colleagues, it's not a one-year job, two-year job. This is a long-lasting process that lasts a year, two years, and we need to move slowly towards this and act discreetly, which I think we will still be able to do, irrespective of the crisis that is emerging today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u327	Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that those Slovenians who are looking at us today and are not politically defined are disappointed in the debate we are having this afternoon. What's this all about? Some apparently, those who are not satisfied with the homeland of Slovenia as we have it, I do not judge among them, I would like another and a third republic all the way to a junta or a third paradise, if necessary. They'll go so far in simple logic. The worse for the coalition, the better for us. I will support Mr Ivan Svetlik's answer, because I am sure he has said the best and most he can and knows and the very word does not lead to a solution. However, I will focus on the fact that when the minister, who is not an opposition minister or this government, is the minister of the Slovenian government, he is trying, he is doing his best, I will stop by when I can help him with his actions and actions, so I will not support the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Don't make me a wuss, Mr. Saiovic. You too are considered to have added a little brat outside the right to explain your vote. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u330	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. I stopped by to tell you that this debate is not productive and no one is saying anything new. He's just teasing. This is how you steal time from God and money from the country. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u332	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this debate because I am not satisfied with the Minister's response. The minister first said in his reply that we once had 140,000 unemployed, which is true. But we also had 59,000, and at a time when some say it was golden times, sunny times, everything was great. Although we have heard one year about poverty itself and a little less about people dying in the streets. All the time, we are reminded that in reality there were not so few unemployed that we placed them from one list to another. We have told thousands of times that you measure unemployment not only by how many people are registered at the Employment Institute, but also by measuring employment and measuring it by how many people are insured and how many are insured, and how many are insured who pay for pension bills. And since 2004, when there were 836,000, we had 894,000 in 2008. Apparently, from somewhere, these people who paid extra medical bills and pension insurance just found themselves, most likely at work and were able to pay for it. The minister said we had a 5% unemployment rate in March, which puts us in fourth place and makes him happy. He says that means we're in control of the problem. But of course you also said that about economic growth. And Slovenia had 6.8% economic growth, and Europe did say: "You will not have such low economic growth in the coming year." Of course, he's correcting these assessments now. It corrects them because your government does not do things as it should or does not take those measures that would [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] You've brought change. [[...]] That's why we suggested a whole bunch of things you don't want to hear. You've provided 230 million for subsidised working hours. Of these, 10 are used, tomorrow we'll be considering a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u334	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against such a debate, for once again the opposition proves that the explanation of vote is turned into a meaningless debate and also into an account, where I have heard some insults. And I wonder if there would be a better discussion of where the money of the National Assembly is going. I read somewhere that even education is paid, and some doctorates, and I don't see the effects of these doctorates here. Some doctors who have become doctors on the basis of the money of the National Assembly today show such ignorance, such inexplicableness, in essence nonsense [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u335	Mr Yuri, I ask you kindly, the only effect you will achieve is that there will be ten more debates. This is not part of the agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u336	But I say that it is necessary to vote against it and I will vote against it because I would like such a debate and also to discuss those Members who do not go to work, such as Mr Janez Janša, even today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u337	Perhaps you have all come to realize that every warning is infertile and give, if possible, a little abstention, because otherwise we will have ten more empty debates without every hack. Mr Rudolf Petan
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I support such a debate, which is envisaged, and I will therefore vote in favour. But, ladies and gentlemen, one sentence says it is better to light the smallest light than to curse the subject. Apparently, this is also known by your President or our President of the Slovenian Government, Mr Pahor, who said on Monday that we would all be helping together, and we would all be making proposals together, and we would all be pulling this wagon out of the mud it is in. But look, we're proposing measures, we're proposing laws, we're not just criticizing, we're making concrete proposals on how to do better. But you're a priori against it, and you won't listen. Suddenly, you are offended when we say that this government is too slow or as someone has said that we claim that this government sucks. Look, ladies and gentlemen, half a year ago we were one of the most successful auctions in Europe, we were a state of prosperity, that's what others acknowledged. But you were talking about poverty, you were talking only about poverty, how poverty is in Slovenia, and that, as a colleague said, people on the road are already starving. That's what you said. And what is it today? You've raised all possible excise duties, we've got one of the most expensive gas stations, you're going to tease, you're going to stop having lunch for the kids, you're going to make kindergartens not free, and you've only succeeded in six months. Fantastic. Today, you make fun of our proposals and applaud the things that make fun of our proposals. But we would like to help, which is what the Prime Minister says would be right. You are making fun of yourself, and instead of turning on the slightest light and supporting our proposal, it is probably good that, in the previous term, if we could have done so much good for Slovenia that the country was three times more successful than in Europe, perhaps even our proposal today would have been good. But no, you don't want to light any lights, but you prefer to oppose the opposition. Why don't you let us discuss our proposals that we've given you, and you've completely limited us on Friday, and you won't even hear about our proposals? That's your problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u339	Mr. Petan, you haven't even told me whether you're up for it or not. You were so excited to talk about other things, not content. Mr Levanic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u340	Mr President, I ask that we truly respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and talk about what this point is intended for, this is an explanation of the vote on the initiative, as regards the Minister's response. Ambassadors and Members, you have a longer internship in this National Assembly than many of us, let's stick to it, I believe that you have read the Rules of Procedure and that you know how it goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u341	Mr Levanic warned us that there is talk of content on the agenda. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] You should have given such a warning a long time ago, only you can't hear it. [[..]] Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u342	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There'll be a procedural proposal, just don't get it wrong. I don't want to do anything bad, but I would like to warn you to read your tape and find out that at the beginning I've told you how I'm going to vote again and finally again, but I'm really running out of time for the last word. I've told you twice how I'm going to vote, and I apologize to you now, but it seemed necessary for me to tell you because I didn't let anyone make fun of me, but I didn't think you did it on purpose, maybe you weren't paying attention. That's why I told you to read the magnetogram and you'll find that I've warned you twice how I'm going to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry that I was embarrassed earlier, but I didn't sign up for this regular process that was going on, but I want to explain my voice myself. I believe that a broader debate is still necessary in these difficult times, and I cannot go beyond this arrogant relationship that has already been expressed in this building today. And that's not a problem either. The worst problem is that such an arrogant relationship takes place on the ground, in particular in Škofja Loka. We have a company called LTH. The agony of this company with a healthy production, six months ahead of schedule, with a trained workforce, three hundred employees who manage their business, have been in trouble not by their own fault. And it is also in the leadership of this company that we have those who, in the past, have afforded an obituary for our former colleague Paul Rupar, and today it is in the leadership of a company that is fighting the battle for survival. That's a hell of an arrogance. And in the end, I'd like to say. The crisis in the world, yes, has hit our country, but LTH has hit these events around LTH and related companies and some others, to what we've been dealing with today, about the poorly placed funds of banks and so on. This is not a crisis from the world, but it is a domestic crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u345	I'm not going to warn you that you haven't told me how you're going to vote because that's pointless. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u346	I will vote in favour of this proposal to hold a debate. However, I am reporting because it has been said that it is irrelevant to talk about unemployment in Parliament. Think of it arrogantly. If we translate this into everyday language: "Because our government and our authorities are unable to take measures that would at least slightly affect the rise in unemployment and the collapse of the Slovenian economy, this Parliament should not speak. And that is also a terrible sense of insensitiveness to the unemployed. Not only do you have an incompetent government, but you are also insensitive, and unfortunately you are not affected by the hardships of the unemployed. And in such situations, it is clear that you do not take action either. Billions of money, millions of those who went after your tycoons, are also streaming in a kind of way into the customers who are in power and who are saying that talking about unemployment is meaningless. I protest that in such an unheard-of way in the National Assembly, there may be talk in some Parliament about the worst wound that touches the unemployed person. These are social and other hardships, and this should not be discussed here. I recommend to you, colleagues and colleagues that you are not so arrogant as to try to do something for which you have been chosen from this people, even from today's unemployed, you have also received votes from them. You have also deceived them as to how Slovenia can rule better. That was your password. If you'd said so. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in its own name, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u348	I will support the debate on this issue, because we can rightly be concerned that the announcement of the current Prime Minister of 100,000 unemployed will come true sooner than he has predicted. He predicted this number by the end of this year, it will be realized by the middle of this year. We can rightly be concerned if the opposition has to propose solutions, but the rulings reject them or do not want them, preventing even the debate from happening. You can rightly be concerned if the Ministry of Finance, in the absence of ideas among its actions, attributes proposals or laws to the opposition. The debate needs to be supported because we can rightly be concerned if ministers flee to Brussels. We can rightly be concerned that, more than half a year ago, this government has destroyed all the surpluses and brought us from another city among the least indebted countries in the euro area, among the most indebted countries in the euro area, in such a way that we are beginning to fall behind the forecasts we have recently made in the resolution documents. You can rightly be concerned if you blow up at the Lehman Brothers at eighty million euros and you don't even want to discuss it. We can all be justifiably concerned that a positive change in the Constitution, which builds up in accordance with time, brings compulsory secondary education, determines regionalisation and so on, compares with the junta and the Third Reich. Only LDS can do this. But we can all rightly be concerned about this. For this reason, I believe that the debate on this issue should be opened or supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u349	An explanation of the vote, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u350	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support the proposal for a debate on the response of the President of the Government. About two months ago, we were here dealing with the state budget's rebalancing as one of the package of measures to address the crisis. The rebalancing was set to 0.6 economic growth. The President of the Government came to the National Assembly to say that this information is not valid and that economic growth after the day of Umar's previously published data is 4 per cent. So it's a fall. However, the coalition insisted on taking this measure. Everything that is now building on such an adopted budget balance certainly cannot produce good results. All you have actually done during this period is to provide the revolutions to the great owners of Slovenian property, the so-called tycoon, there was no problem here. For the rest of the economy, there is a credit crunch. And since the government for all the rest of the credit crunch economy, the economy is drowning in difficulties when it is unable to access funds, when it cannot provide resources for the renewal of its production for the realisation of contracts and is facing problems of unemployment. In fact, these problems that we are facing need to be addressed because they are taking place with significantly higher and faster dynamics, as said just a few weeks earlier by the President of the Government, because this is happening significantly faster, to hold a debate. It is necessary to identify the causes and not only the causes, but also to discuss what measures are needed to address the consequences of unemployment. Those who are on the wrong data, on the modified data, certainly not. And the basic measure of the second package is already like this. I'll support the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u351	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. That's right, you're right. You weren't. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] He had procedural procedures. [[...]] He didn't have a word. I'm opening a statement to explain my own voice. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u352	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I suggest that you suspend the meeting for a few minutes and check on Mr Juri's discussion, which has been announced for this proposal. The fact is that in his proposal he spoke about a minute of silence to Members, the proposal was not procedural in nature, but was of a substantive nature and discussed content and taught us how to speak. I think that in this way, the honourable President, as is the case in the National Assembly, when votes are suspended for some, for others not when for some, and this has happened again today when some are allowed to debate at the same point twice, for others not. This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, one broad debate should also be held on the use of the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, since the Presidents, this book, which we have, as a basis for work, are used by the force in different ways, not only to Members, but also to Members' Groups. Even those who hold the meeting use this in very different ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u353	Thank you very much. I have to say no to your allegations. In the meantime, I have clearly checked, my fellow Member, Dr. Luka Juri, has spoken under the symbol procedurally, so he has the opportunity to explain his vote. I haven't even started voting with the key yet, so I've allowed -- as always, anyone -- to give the opportunity to explain their voice. Mr Joško Godec has the floor in explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u354	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My explanation for the vote is that I will not support this debate. However, I must certainly say that on my left side in this Chamber today there have been so many such insulting proposals that someone should probably cut this debate through the rules of procedure. Such a discussion is hard to listen to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u355	Please don't hesitate to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u356	My explanation for the voice is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u357	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u358	Next. [[...]] I know a poet named Goethe. And he didn't just write good songs, he wrote good proverbs. And among them is his proverb, which I like most, is quite short, namely, "that the gods were always so clever that they never argued with the fools." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u359	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Luke Juri, or explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u360	Thank you very much. I will vote against it for two reasons. First, because we do not need a debate, because the debate has just been held. And second, because of the content of the debate so far, where I think the arguments have already expired, and if we wait another month, these arguments will, in addition to the fact that the duration has already expired, continue to wane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u361	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[in favour of 34 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the linkage of the supplementary decisions, so-called compensation deletions. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Before I give the floor, I would like to point out that in my explanations I will interrupt the explanation if it relates to controversy with other Members, and, of course, I would ask you to say in particular why you will vote as you will vote. Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the debate; I will vote for several reasons. For the first time, because in Slovenia the facts of how these so-called eraseds have been negligently hidden, why they are declared as deleted, who has done here, who is also willing to violate Slovenian legislation today, to spit on the Slovenian constitution, on Slovenian people and those citizens who have settled their status at the time of our independence and in accordance with the law. I think it is unacceptable that these things are happening and that then, in the context of some corrections to the injustices, as some psychiatrists say, who care little about the Slovenian people, that these people are already receiving certain financial resources, which were said no one will get them. It's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's... it's... Unique in the world. Nothing like this has ever happened anywhere in any country, except in any democratic country. Slovenians and our political, some political spheres do, I would say, give reasonable doubt as to the possibility of thinking that some people can. For I would not hope to claim that they are guided by their own interests, thinking ability, and consideration of possible earnings. But as it turns out, it's also something in the back. The funding that some have received in this way, and if I go only to rumors that are circulating across Styria in relation to financial resources, in relation to the 64,000 euros awarded by the court to the "syptars" by Buti Krasniqi in the amount of EUR 64,000, it is said once again that half of this has been received by the lawyer and that 10,000 euros should go to the judge's pockets. Although I don't believe it exactly, rumors are like that and such rumors require a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u364	Thank you very much. The Group of Members will vote in favour of this debate, otherwise I should like to quote a few quotations in my explanation. I did not ask the question of the issues already being published, which have already been clarified and so on, but of the topics that have become relevant after the Minister's interpretation, so I would be very happy if the coalition would listen to me as well. "Most people can be deceived for a short time, some people can be deceived all the time, but you can't lie to everyone all the time." - Mrs. Kresal on April 1st. On 1 April, the Minister said, and based her response to the interpretation on two very important things; the first thing is, the decisions have nothing to do with compensation. This was justified for a very long time, very precisely, even the figures said, everything that we said in the opposition before 2004, and now we're talking, all the numbers said and "killed us". She said "nothing euro is", over, so the decisions have nothing to do with compensation. But, look at the fraction, the court in the judgment referred to by Jelinčič said: According to the court's judgement, the time limit for statute of limitations is that the court said that "the basis for such a decision is the knowledge of Mrs Krasniqi's injury, when it was the end of this illegal situation, is based on the decision being made. So she made it clear that Mrs. Kresalov was not telling the truth. The Minister further supported and made it very clear: "I am defending the rule of law, where the power of the arguments reigns, not an argument of power over the rule of law." And she said that, of course, the expiry date of the Constitutional Court decision would begin to run. By decision of the Constitutional Court! However, the Court said: "According to the Court's judgment, the time limit for the expiry of the action in question began to run when the Ministry of the Interior was, that is, 5. 3. 2004, issued a supplementary decision." Ergo! The minister's what? Decepted or what? I don't know what she was doing. I didn't mean to be insulting to her, so yesterday, I didn't say that she eventually gave up her legal knowledge. I don't believe it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I believe, of course, that the debate is necessary because it has informed us of the coalition with the wrong information. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u366	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. What my predecessor said was by no means the controversy of the Minister of the Interior [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u367	Dear colleague, please limit yourself to your explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u368	I'll do it again. What my predecessor said was certainly not controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u369	No, it wasn't a controversy. In a strict sense, it wasn't a controversy. I can explain later if you want. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u370	Please. I will vote against the debate. Why? Because we have had hours and hours of debate on this subject in this House because the opposition has proposed them. And we didn't come anywhere because they don't consider the opposition an argument. Secondly, I will vote against it because the opposition has received a parliamentary investigative commission on this subject in this mandate, where it may have the opportunity to abuse this topic until it fails to do so. The second time she'll be able to re-exploit this topic publicly. To make the investigative commission a speedy court, as it has done in the previous term. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u371	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this issue. For one day we discussed this, but the only result was that the LDS had increased slightly, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u373	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u374	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this debate because you're reading this government some kind of cover-up. The first reserve of the former government or the former coalition, which had four years to solve the problem, is gone, and it is clear that this government will be able to resolve it in six months - however it may be. These are the reasons why I can't support these things, because once he's been silent for four years, and twice in six months he wants to go through his head into a wall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u376	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal. You know why? I don't even believe there's 18,000 wiped out, about 25,000, but I believe there's 2 or 3 thousand. And we owe it to the Slovenes and the Slovenes to make it clear once again who these people are, why these people are and what the consequences will be, I speak morally and materially, to these people too. So I believe there are two or three thousand of them, at least I believe there are 18,000 of them, and even less there are 25,000 of them, unless among them all those who, like some, have already smelled the money. That's ugly of this country. "I am" to know for once who these people are, where they are and what they belong to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u377	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u378	Thank you. I will vote in favour because political propagandists of the ruling coalition and governments have declared interpolation a triumph. The Court’s judgment, however, exposed this as a triumph of ignorance, incompetence and fraud, since the key argument advocated by both the Minister, the President of the Government and all of you in this Chamber has proved to be unprofessional and reflects legal ignorance. The fact that the additional argument is also the reaction of the Minister after being disclosed by the court as non-professional. She went to politics. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u379	The secretary's not here and she can't argue with you. Please explain only your voice and do not dispute with others, especially if they are not in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u380	Please extend my due time due to your inappropriate intervention, for an additional argument, ladies and gentlemen, is the politicisation carried out by the Minister, who, in his place, is in charge of the so-called deleted, at this time appoints Mr Vukko, former Member of the current government parties and a long-standing political activist and official. This is a pure politicisation of the Ministry of the Interior and also evidence of how highly politicized the ruling coalition is this issue of so-called deleted. And that I do not believe that we could count on ethics in this case, I am convinced that, earlier on, one of the parties to government mentioned the unemployed and the importance of measures to create new jobs for the development of the Slovenian economy, the entire ruling coalition has accompanied this mockery with a bubbling applause. This is really the bottom of political culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u381	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. I don't think you should take the liberty of evaluating other Members. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u382	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. So I am going to hold a debate on the Minister's response because this debate is necessary and because the statements made by the Minister in response to the question asked by the Member State do not hold. Why is he going? The problem of the so-called deleted, what was also a question sent, is becoming a financial problem of the Republic of Slovenia. The issue of additional decisions is, of course, the basis for this. And why can I say that? In fact, the actions or verdicts of the courts in Ptuj and Maribor showed that the Minister's answers were not held and that she was deceiving. The fact is that the decisions were issued for €18,000 and €65,000 without interest. If we add interest, there will be about 650000 and 150,000 euros for these two rulings. If we multiply this by 25,000, as many as we suddenly listed and produced at the Ministry of the Interior, we are within the range of several billion euros and these additional decisions, which the Minister claimed meant "zero" compensation, zero compensation, appear to be completely different in this light. That is why I think that such a debate is necessary, and at a time when they have somehow further produced 7,000 new so-called deleted ones, of course even put the matter in a more tragic light and the damages will certainly be, this proved by the decision of these courts by judgment, will go to heaven and will certainly block life in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I think it is right to discuss the Minister's response to our colleague, Dr. Gorenak,'s question. I'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u384	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it. I will vote against this because I want Slovenia to take steps forward and not step back. Because today in Slovenia, for example, we still hear homophobic statements on the day of the fight against homophobia. Because single women, with all their love for this world, do not matter, in Slovenia it is still not possible to have a child. Because in Slovenia in the last 15 years, unfortunately, we have made some mistakes and violated human rights, for which we should be ashamed and not on the basis of which we should now talk about how much these mistakes will cost us. It saddens me that on the basis of human rights, we go to public finances. It saddens me that the passions and fears of people in Slovenia who tremble at their jobs are shaking for the future of themselves and their children in order to arouse new xenophobia, new hatred and to collect political points. I think it's embarrassing, saddens me, and I hope that maybe in a year, maybe in four, maybe in 20, we'll be able to take a step further. My little part of it will be today's vote against this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u386	So, I'm going to vote in favour, at the start, but at the same time, of course, I'm obliged, given the predecessor's debate, to say essentially the following. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u387	Please, Dr. Gorenak, don't argue with him, because he didn't have a direct problem with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u388	The President. You've interrupted me for at least a decade. Please, if you stop this!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u389	No, I won't. Restless, laughter in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u390	As you wish, I'll speak. No one on our side has ever said and never said that we are generally for any prohibition of compensation or decision-making to all those who need to be given this because they have been wronged - yes, the others have not. Otherwise, I will vote in favour of this proposal because the Minister, when answering my question, did not answer. She also did not reply because she actually knows the court's decision. And he knows the decision of the court that I should be talking about, and then, of course, there was a need to define the facts. It therefore identified itself until this Decision, so, around, and commented on it. A few days earlier, however, she invited me to leave because I had commented on another decision, and many here also attended. Yesterday, the President of the Government is on this subject - I respect this statement, 18. 5. 2009 at 15.36 it was said - he said: "There is no one here who would deny that the laws apply to all of us that none of us should comment on or apply the judgments of the courts and should be respected." [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I was extremely grateful to him, and in that debate I am expecting, I also look forward to the apology of all those who have asked me to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u391	Thank you very much. I ask again for an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Check-in is on. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u392	It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. I will vote against, because the questions raised by the Minister do not really include a key issue, which also relates to compensation - who caused this situation today, almost after so many years, that I will not add up [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u393	Comrade Magajn, explanation of vote, not explanation of vote, not debate on these matters. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u394	I will therefore vote against this because it does not include a key question of responsibility for this situation. This, however, is who caused the unlawful situation of the erasure and, as a result, compensation. What would be relevant today would be the questions that these people were, which was the government, which caused illegal acts and conditions. We know about the then prime minister, the minister and everyone who caused it, and there are also compensations coming from there. If they're injured, there'll be damages. Let us ask ourselves, who, shortly after independence, caused the era and the situation that we still need to talk about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u395	Thank you very much. She's got a word for Mrs. Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u396	Thank you so much for saying that. In its decision on so-called deleted in several places, the Constitutional Court stated that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u397	All peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u398	18305 deleted. [[...]] I am interested in the fact that this explanation of the Constitutional Court is in fact as difficult as the decision itself, I am interested in whether it is a violation of the constitutional decision, which happened when it was found that the number of deleted is significantly higher. This is an important question to be answered, and this must also be done in the National Assembly on this debate. And this jump probably has to be patented because there aren't many jumps like this. That there will be no consequences, he doesn't. The consequences of these first judgments, which are large, will be as many deleted as is now known as the value of the motorway programme. Approximately 4 billion euros. So much was one of the values in the National Road Construction Programme - just so we know what we're talking about. And the third thing to discuss is actually compensation. In response to my question, the Ministry of Labour stated that compensation for victims of war violence is between 0.8 and 1.25 euros. For example, Mrs Ivica Znidarsic, who is president of the Eviction Society, received 1.25 euros for the month of exile, and one of the so-called deleted ones will receive at least 500 euros for the same month, as much as the minimum or guaranteed salary. If he claims a higher amount of compensation, he will receive even more compensation. From this point of view, it is certainly necessary to hold a debate in the National Assembly on this subject in order to obtain at least data to get at least a relationship, so that we know how to behave in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u400	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not intend to advertise, not by explaining my voice, but things are going in a direction that is completely incomprehensible and beyond any rational framework. I will not support this proposal for the first time because I do not want to listen to the facts again, I do not belong to those who have repeatedly been convinced by the repeated untruth that it has become the truth. Secondly, because I do not want to hear that we do not have any legal knowledge by coalition Members, even with repeated repetitions, even geologists and ex-cops believe that they have become legal experts overnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. The word has Happy Friend, procedurally [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u402	Thank you very much. This widespread debate is, in some ways, necessary. In particular, because we need to find out the fact that the Minister did not write down in the report, although this was in a letter from one of the Members in writing, she replied in writing that she would make a report on the deletions from the records. We do not have this written report, and especially because these 7,000 have been deleted more than they were in 1992. Their birth rate is growing abnormally fast. Perhaps we can also get Slovenians some instruction in the sense that we too can organize ourselves as they do. Finally, it is essential that we hold an extensive debate also because this will cost Slovenia and Slovenia, of course, these compensations we are talking about, EUR 2 billion. This is essential because the taxpayers will end up paying for it. And if I may say so, it is not the case that we have changed the law on the legal rate, for there we have given lawyers the opportunity to charge themselves as much as they want and to judge themselves about the quality of the work. Maybe if we think about who's who, who came from, who's doing something, it's a serious connection. New profits can be made from this title, of course the LDS, which has barely come to Parliament and can count on more than one voice, which is fair if it provides 25,000 deleted papers. And I think they're doing some credit in that sense. Therefore, we need to hold the debate and pour some pure wine for the Slovenes and Slovenes to see who is who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u403	We're putting it to a vote. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally? Did you want procedural? I'm asking for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u404	Mr President, before that, a Member spoke about intolerance and hate speech. But even in the last performance, it was said with impatience, and you tried to offend the Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u405	You had a procedural proposal, now you're commenting on things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u406	I'm going to make a procedural proposal for this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u407	Please, procedural proposal, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u408	we must protest to remind the Member that he cannot do so. [[...]] We're also hearing from this bench that the president of our embassy is a bum, that the invaders are sheriffs, and you're not reacting. You only see one side when you're facing criticism. That's unacceptable. Members of any profession have the right to speak in Parliament and you are here applying a pattern to silence me and not protest me. Please remind the Member of your misconduct and misconduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u409	So I have to reject your findings at my expense. I must say, above all, that the qualification that has been given cannot be regarded as an insult, even if it has been so intended. But I can't always guarantee that I will always react correctly, because if I agree to this, then of course I would ask you to judge me as reacting, I can't always guarantee that I will always react correctly, it's not that easy, but at this point I've decided that these qualifications, such as they were given, I can't always judge the insult, even though it wasn't meant to be. [[...]] Thank you very much. We're going to the vote, we're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Miran Györek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšić to the question of the question of the delegation of Mr Miran Györek concerning the reorganisation of the Slovenian school system." Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please, Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u410	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am sure that my initiative or the question of the Member will not raise as much dust and controversy as the previous points, because it is my joy, but unfortunately, because my question of the Member's question concerns our children in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and that, unfortunately, they are not as politically attractive as deleted, vignettes, excise duties and similar matters. We can think about that. But I do hope you'll be in favour of discussing them as well. I have mentioned to the Minister of Education and Sport a number of issues, open questions, which mainly concern the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Here I was thinking mainly about the open questions about certain articles in the proposal to reorganise this law, or to change the law, that is, the management, organisation of institutions, schools, public kindergartens, the compositions of the boards of institutions, the appointment and discharge of directors, and so on, not to mention everything. I am aware that we will also discuss this at the home committee and also at the National Assembly when there will be a debate on proposals for amendments to the ZOFVI law. But I mentioned one thing that we will certainly not discuss in this law, which is primarily the necessity of a different approach to addressing the problem of drug and alcohol abuse in our secondary schools and, unfortunately, also primary schools. In the National Assembly, there has been no in-depth debate on this subject, this shows our two-way relationship with our children, it says to children, this is about the individuals they love the most in life. And I think that this initiative, which I have given to the Minister, that the Ministry of Education and Sport should prepare detailed analyses on this issue, which is today a cruel reality and we are all aware of it, we also declare this to be discussed, but when something has to be done, it is a systemic matter to be introduced into the school environment into the debate, into the subject, and so on, and then we cancel. I therefore suggest that you support this initiative by Members and Members, because this is a very important area that will still warm us very much later when we have to bury our young children who have surrendered [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the interrogation.]] I'm afraid you've turned yourself in for the foreign guilt of this addiction. [[...]] And we are also guilty of having come to such a large number of addicts in this small Slovenia [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u411	Thank you very much. We're voting. Breakup. Do you want to explain your vote in your own name? I understand you want to vote already. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Anyway, it was my fault. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u412	Thank you very much. I will support this initiative, because a debate is needed on the Ministry's governance system and on this issue. Even with this, see, in some ways some of the Minister's decisions are very inconsistent, strange and we have to ask ourselves whether he is competent in running this area. When the Social Democracy Congress elected the Vice-President, the party declared and ordered the media to win the 24-year-old candidate youth victory. All the newspapers wrote this the second day that youth won. But by doing so, the client of her minister has declared her demented and [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u413	Mr. Jerovšek, that's a little too much. You said that the client declared her minister demented. Please stick to some consistent methods of communication, and it is not necessary that every single expression from the street or conversation from the inn comes to the National Assembly. I'm asking you to hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u414	I felt humiliated at the time that they humiliated Minister Luksic, but of course, on some of his proposals, I wonder if these proposals are okay. Now, to end a warm meal for the students, in other areas it does not take the right measures, and I think that the debate on what the Member proposes should be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u416	Thank you. Of course, I support a Member's proposal, which is completely different and does not politicise the left and right fields, which is also evident by the fact that all of them - their rights are, they are talking to each other, and they do not hear a call for help from children who are addicted to alcohol and drugs in primary and secondary schools. Unfortunately, there are too many of these. Perhaps someone would have thought that this was the contents of some other competent ministry. No, no, no. I would like to point out that our distinguished colleague, Mr Miran Györek, said that this content, which is the ZOFVI we are going to talk about, does not cover. That this is the content and problem that we will face or face; all of us are 90 and all 2 million Slovenians. Such children are sadly, sadly, too many, but no one speaks of them. As John Cankar wrote: "You who have in your heart youth, then only in your fist strength, you see, on your shoulders, you will have life." Therefore, I think it is necessary to say at least "yes" to discuss whether this content belongs to the ZOFVI in what kind of content and form it belongs to this law and how we can help our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u417	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u418	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Certainly the law will not talk about another segment; about the segment of what is going on in our schools in general, and what are the reasons for our schools not only to sell and buy drugs or alcohol, but to carry out various forms of violence against fellow students, against those in lower classes, even against teachers. Since 1992, Slovenia has become entangled in "one total mess": no obligations, no obligations, no duties, rights and rights have been imposed on anyone. And if the teacher gives "shus" to one who is lazy and stupid, "flies" to the school "fotter" and says, with a lawyer of course, he'll sue the teacher. Then the principal said, "You know what, you better stay home so there's nothing worse going on." I think it's basically a lot of wrong things and our loving unions in the field of education - what they do, they fight for higher wages, let them arrange something else. And here we need to step together the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Interior and do something together. After all, drug dealers are running around primary schools, as well as a wide range of calls by the Slovenian National Party to police that there are such and such dealers to sell, there was no response, as people say, that there are many policemen involved in drug trafficking. Yeah, are we gonna do something for our kids, or are we gonna have to organize ourselves to defend our own children? Or are we going to walk around with a pair of shorts and a pair of pants and electric shockers or something? I think it is high time that this debate opens and there are some solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u419	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Sreč Krijata, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the question of Mr Friend's parliamentary question concerning the reimbursement of EU grants for development programmes received by MIP." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not only in the Slovenian National Party, the Minister also agreed to a broader debate in the National Assembly. Why? The collapse and planned destruction of the MIP is a result of the deliberate conduct of economic crime by the Volk family, which results in 270 families without bread in Pomure and over thousands of families without bread in Primorska. Given this multi-application factor, these families are likely to be even more. And Slovenia will now have to pay a million and a half euros back to the European cash register because of the intentional destruction of this company and its production, because these funds were untransparently spent and because it had shut down this business a long time ago, as it should have. I am interested in how my Members of the Sea will vote today, and my colleague, Mr Györek, is interested in how the MEPs will vote. That'll be interesting. We only ask for an extended debate. I would also, of course, like to hear the reply of the Minister of the Interior in this extensive debate, why "Volkov" is still walking on the loose. For the natural wolves on the four legs, we were able to take care of and order the shooting along with the environmental minister, it would be wise to do a house search here, seize the documentation, and find the source of the property in this family, which has retreated from leadership positions and, of course, brought production to foreign companies. And last but not least, I come from another constituency where the greatest unemployment is from Primorska, and that's where the ruling party gets the most Members. There's only one man who didn't come to Parliament. It is true that there are a number of reservists, because they have also run for office, and Mr Pahor is obliged to give an answer, of course, through the update of his government's work, why such a situation has occurred in the MIP. After all, this is a brand that is established, and I expect this government to offer a package of solutions that will allow this brand to go on. Of course, there must also be banks, and there must also be a financial minister willing to subsidise these programmes and to find another legal entity to carry this out. However, the responsibility is to seek immediate responsibility from the holders of the responsibility or management structures of that time. We know that the director is legally responsible for monitoring the legality of business in the company, but Mr Volk, as has already been said, has written the house down to his wife and insured himself by taking profitable transactions to his private companies abroad. Nothing happens. I expect that this debate will be supported today and that we demand a response from the Government at a joint meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u421	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote in your own name, please. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u422	Thank you for your word. I will also be happy to support this extensive debate, because the issue which my fellow Member has raised in all these debates is similar to that which I have already mentioned in Škofja Loka around LTH. A whole bunch of irregularities, they all keep their eyes closed, but in a particular case in Škofja Loka there are 300 workers at risk, with a good program, six months ahead of schedule, but because of strange or illegal and illegal measures, they endangered 300 workers. In the case of the MIP, there were other matters, for these workers who are employed, there is still a whole bunch of farmers, a brand that is not created overnight, and it is hard to imagine how to successfully promote agriculture if by fishing in mud, trade marks disappear and are endangered in addition to those who work in the food processing industry and the base that produces the raw materials is the farming population. I will vote in favour of an extended debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u423	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u424	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The resolution of such problems begins at all times and everywhere by sanctioning the perpetrators. In Slovenia, this is not a normal procedure and more or less are awarded to us. Rewarded with some additional credit from the state bank to be able to put more money in their pockets. And that's exactly what's happening in the MIP case, it's all gone into private pockets, it's already gotten into the country at the right time, it's closed down by the best parts of the company in Slovenia, it's opened in Italy and Switzerland; it's nothing! I don't know what our police are doing. I don't know what our intelligence is doing. Now, it looks like it's too intertwined and they've been setting up too many pockets to get into things like this. Moreover, if we look at this gentleman or that this gentleman has received almost EUR 3 million from the European funds returned by the country, one wonders whether we are a country of idiots or maybe we are buttocks or what we are to allow. There is no such indulgence anywhere in the world! Nowhere in the world except in Slovenia. But there are two possibilities: either we are so stupid or we are so intertwined and we have such a large swallowing soul that some of us have to deal with that kind of pocket money. I think it is high time to open a debate on this, although I am sure that the proposal will not be adopted, because the ruling coalition is certainly not about washing their dirty laundry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u425	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u426	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yes, it seems to me that this question of my friend Friend was addressed, I should have addressed the Ministry of Police and Justice earlier, because in this case it is obvious that this is a greed and grabby case that has affected so many and so many people, thrown them on the road and put them in social trouble. Of course, as a result, two ministries are now engaged, this is for agriculture and the economy. In the end, we're all gonna get hit in the pocket. I mean, it's not just the M.I.P., it's Pomurka. This is once a brilliant specimen of the former Yugoslav food processing industry with also trade marks. It's all gone now. 270 workers went on the road because of one man, who, as we have learned, was in contact with another man from Prekmur. This, however, was the President of the Supervisory Board, once involved in some criminal proceedings as a bankruptcy manager. So it was a planned demolition of companies, a robbery, a home invasion, and I don't know how our society could have watched and allowed it. And of course, common sense tells us that it is necessary to discuss this, that at least from this debate we will learn about the future, that we will no longer make such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u427	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 39. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Service Act under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 4th item of the agenda - second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to Article 2. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Zares and LDS groups to Article 2a, which reminds you that if this amendment is adopted, Amendment 2 to this Article is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. 75 Members and Members voted 63 against 6. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting, and the proposal for a third hearing will be prepared by the assembly services. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the interruption of the 5th item of the agenda. Excuse me. Mr. Tanko, did you want procedural? We continue with item 5 of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Legal Consequences of Authorised Investment Companies, the reduced procedure. To the second reading of the amendments and to the supplementary proposal of the law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 4. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda - Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled in Article 2. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 2 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u428	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We are constructive in the SDS Group, so we will support this law and also the amendment that we have tabled and will allow that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u429	We'll just tap you manually, because you started talking before the application for an explanation of the leak. So, mind if we tap you manually.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u430	It won't be three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u431	[[...]] [[From the bench.]] Don't touch him at all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u432	The Group will support the amendment, which will allow a higher share of the excise duty on motor fuels used to drive agricultural machinery and machinery in construction; not to be liked by people, but because in our Group of Members we can listen to the needs of citizens and citizens, especially those who have helped to preserve our countryside. And don't be afraid to make farmers rich, just a little easier to survive these times of crisis. Otherwise they say, "A rich farmer, a rich country." Farmers in Slovenia were always one of the pillars of Slovenia and if anyone had to take anything, it was a farmer. By adopting this amendment, we will only have a fraction, a little help in improving the situation of those involved in agriculture. And the amendment to delete the last sentence in Article 22. Here too, we do not believe that the condition for reimbursement of excise duty is simply a payment without cash, but any payment, of course with appropriate proof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u433	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u434	In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to be able to vote at this point on amendments that raise the reimbursement of excise duties for those who are engaged in agriculture and in these difficult times also fight the battle with the conditions created during this economic crisis. However, we will be pleased to see the amendment that we have tabled ourselves, which foresees a 100% refund on this excise duty, and we also appeal to the other Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u435	Thank you very much. I should also point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 3 of this Article are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 2. I would also point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment referred to in point three of this Article is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 6. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against six.]] We have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. As I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted amendments to Article 2 of the amended Act, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Please, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u436	Thank you so much for saying that. I announce that we will table an amendment to this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u437	Thank you very much. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday 21. 5. After the final vote. And we continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the proposal of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination under the ordinary procedure. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions - reduced procedures. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please. Please, Mr. Gorenak. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]] Mr. Gorenak, don't wait too long, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u438	Thank you very much. Look, as far as this law, which is before us, the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions, we will not support it in our parliamentary group. In fact, the reason is relatively simple to explain it as follows. I said on the committee that I was increasingly getting the feeling that the Ministry of Justice was correcting everything that had been done in the previous term. So, I have expressed some doubts, I have expressed my doubts because, literally, even in the previous term, I have been able to monitor the formation of these laws prepared by Minister Sturm. And it happened that we slowly repaired one by one into a condition from before 2004. As far as this law is concerned, the situation is such that we have had the opinion of Mr Marjan Cantra, a pennologist who signed himself, who has very precisely explained why he is not to abolish the so-called Health Commission, even engaged our colleague Mr Majhenić on a committee that has also very clearly explained why he is opposed to this commission being terminated, and I am sure that none of us sitting here but him actually knows these matters so that he knows them because he worked there in this service. However, the Ministry of Justice has proposed deleting this commission and the coalition has voted to do so. The same is true of refoulement because he also strongly opposed this provision, which is now being introduced into the law. Of course, it is repeated, it is repeated from law to law, that from some principled point of view, because the former Minister has done so, we must correct it and then it will be fine. So, if Minister Sturm did it, if we fix it, it'll certainly be fine, because we're in a position before 2004. Last but not least, Mr President, look, today I've received confirmations, a real confirmation of what I said and what I thought or suspected. In this Chamber it was about an hour and a half ago - I do not know all Members yet, so I cannot say: "All the laws adopted in your mandate must be corrected to make order." That's an extremely good explanation. And thank you very much for such an explanation, at least I know where the ship is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u439	Thank you very much. We vote the vote runs. [[..]] There are 77 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 32. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Thank you very much. Good night.
