ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter from 10 a.m. to 7.30 p.m., Miran Györek, Bogdan Barovic, Iztok Podkrižnik, Bojan Kontič from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and Milenko Ziherl from 10 a.m. to 16 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW, IN THE FIELD OF REFERENCE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, mag. Sonji Bukovec, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House and honourable Members of the House, welcome! Allow me to present today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act. The European Commission has already adopted Regulation No. 1435 with the aim of harmonising mutual law in the European Union and allowing legal and natural persons from different countries of the European Union to establish a European cooperative. The Regulation provides an opportunity for countries to adopt legal bases for the implementation of the European Cooperative, while at the same time simplifying the legal system in the field of association. The proposal for a law is the implementation of Regulation No. 1435 and the establishment of the European Cooperative as defined in Chapter 9 of the Act. Proposals to supplement individual articles of the Act also relate in most cases to the implementation of the provisions of the European Cooperative Act and the adaptation of the European Regulation to national regulations, as regards the provisions on the bodies of the European Cooperative Association, to the provisions on companies in the Company Act. Smaller adaptations to the Cooperatives Act relate to cooperatives under Slovenian law, which will ensure greater organisational flexibility and the stability of cooperatives, as well as the possibility of involving other investors who do not use cooperative services, but cooperate with them only with a capital share. Let me introduce the basic solutions to the law. The main objective of the European cooperation is certainly to meet the needs of its members and to develop their economic and social interests. A European cooperative may set up at least 5 founders from at least two different countries, may establish natural persons and companies from different countries, or may set up a European cooperative with two legal entities governed by the legislation of at least two different Member States of the European Union. Apart from this establishment, the European Cooperative can also be established by merging or reshaping in the area of the two countries. So where legislation governs at least two different countries. If I introduce the capital. The capital is divided into shares. The lowest share of the core capital is EUR 30 000. This capital must not be reduced by the payment of shares to shareholders. The cooperative bodies are a general assembly, with the exception of which the law allows for a two-tier and one-stop system. In the case of a double-tier system, the cooperative may have a management body and a supervisory board, while in the case of a single system it has an administrative body. The work of the European cooperative bodies shall be defined or summarised by law of the participating companies or by the Company Act. Each member of the European Association shall have one vote at the General Assembly. Let me also draw attention to the specific provision of the law relating to non-segregated cooperative property. The provision on the insurance of non-segregated cooperative property shall be controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food at the time of the status of the cooperative. If the Ministry of Public Interest opposes the termination of the cooperative or the transfer of the European Cooperative Office to another country, the decision shall not apply and the registration authority shall not be able to register such a legal act. Let me finish. At the end of the law, provisions on sanctions are submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Franco Bogovic to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u4	Good afternoon. Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State! As a parent committee, the Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act 9. 9th in its session. Guests who usually come from the Ministry of Agriculture, Legal and Legislative Service, Agricultural Forestry Chamber, Association of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were present. The legal and legal service had already warned us at the outset that in this case there was a greater interference in the legal text, so it was noted that a new law should probably be drawn up for reasons of better transparency, even though it was already stated in the material itself that it was necessary to prepare a copy, since the legal provision applied to a whole number of other laws, their position was highlighted there. They also made comments to the second Articles of Articles 8, 9, 11, 17 and amendments to the SD, Reals, DeSUS and LDS MPs were also, with amendments, most of these comments were summarised and also finally adopted on the Committee itself. As regards the substance of the law itself, the Secretary of State has already pointed out the essential things that are changing in this law, both with regard to this asset adjustment and with regard to management authorities. It is also important to invest or invest those non-members where a maximum of 25% of the voting rights are in line with the European acquis. Accordingly, an amendment has been tabled today that regulates this area while allowing members to agree on a height which, as we have already said, must not exceed 25%. There has been a considerable debate in the framework of the amendments tabled by the SLS Group on Articles 12 and 16, and in particular Article 16, which we know is deleted from this Act. It refers to a joint audit, which has been mandatory for all cooperatives for at least two years since the entry into force of Slovenian cooperatives under the Cooperatives Act, with this chapter, in view of the fact that a law on auditing was adopted last year, which prohibits the carrying out of this audit of a cooperative relationship, so this law exempts a mandatory audit for every two years for all cooperatives. At the end of this part, together with the Legislative and Legal Service, we have also found that it would probably be impossible to regulate this now in this law, because last year the Audit Law passed this provision, and this right to carry out the audit by the Joint Liaison has ceased in this transitional period this year. We have also found that there is a paradox, for in some countries, such as Italy, a mutual review has been introduced by adapting this Directive as a mandatory one and is now being eliminated or disabled by another of our domestic laws. Small cooperatives, from now on audits are no longer required to carry out, while for medium and large, this remains. However, there are small cooperatives, according to the provisions of the Law on Economic Companies and these criteria, which are set out there, as much as 80% of all. Finally, the Committee adopted the amendments tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS Member Club by Articles 8, 9 and 11 and by the SLS Group's amendment to Articles 6 and 10 of the bill. However, as I have already said, the amendments to Articles 12 and 16 have not been adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a law is the one whose [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u6	Allow the present opinion of the parliamentary group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Second reading Cooperatives Act. In the SLS Group, we believe that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act is urgently needed, as it is essentially a matter of aligning the provision with Council Regulation 1435/2003, where a European cooperative is legally regulated. Since the Regulation is a directly applicable regulation, it has also started to apply to us on 18 August 2006, and the State has been ordered to adopt rules for its implementation. Since this has not yet been done, individuals and legal persons from the Member States have not been able to establish the so-called European cooperative in our country. Otherwise, in the SLS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law could be slightly more adapted to the development of society in our country and that certain areas would be more specifically regulated. We are thinking again of this deletion of provisions after a joint audit. We do not see the real reason for this explanation why our amendment was rejected on the Committee, which assumes that the joint audit is not terminated, but they have not convinced us, at least not in the substantive work. And I think that we have been united here with the other parliamentary groups, that this deletion is mainly due to the legislative framework which adopted this last spring and made it impossible for this audit to continue. The drafters of the bill should be aware of the specificities of cooperatives as legal persons, since they have membership in cooperative management, capital and also business with their farm, business or business. This leads to greater material risks than other companies. With the volatility of membership and core capital, the audit was the means to reduce these risks. After all, in neighbouring countries, following the example of our corporate law, Austria, Germany, consider a joint audit as the fourth body of the cooperative. Despite those comments, the SLS Group will support the draft law. For we believe that the partnership preserves a positive tradition and strengthens citizenship. The biggest role has been played right in crisis times, and today, too, the farmer is more than welcome. The fact is that Slovenian farmers need better organised integration systems and an innovative and stimulating environment for farmers of the cooperative because of their age and ownership structure, because of limited natural geographical data and because of a better bargaining ground in fair-earning negotiations. In the parliamentary group, we are also seriously considering preparing a proposal for a revision of the Audit Act and consequently amending the Cooperatives Act again, because we believe that a segment of inseparable cooperative property is a specific property. In small companies, which are usually also the owner in the hands of the founder, it has been shown that this audit, as well as any supervisory committee, is unlikely to be necessary. We fear, however, that because of this status, the inseparable cooperative property with this amendment of the law in the Slovenian cooperative system is a certain flaw that will have to be corrected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Good day to you all! Greetings also to the representative and the representative of the Ministry! In Slovenian history, cooperatives have always been an important and necessary organisational form and, of course, we want them to remain so in the future. When we hear the word cooperative, everyone first thinks of agricultural cooperatives, but out of 500 such cooperatives in Slovenia there are only 135 agricultural ones, the rest are active in other areas. Harmonisation with European legislation seems necessary, important, and cooperatives must remain in the future and be organised in a modern manner. Of course, some dilemmas have arisen in this legislation. Whether they are good, really best solved or not will show time and practice. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to particularly welcome the provision of the new Law on the Insurance of Inseparable Social Property, when the cooperative is terminated or transferred, which is not a member of the cooperative. Our opinion in this area is as follows. Individual property will have to be transferred if the cooperative is to be terminated to a cooperative that has to be established in Slovenia, permission to issue the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. This is an important provision that will prevent the possibility of spillage and loss in the history of Slovenian society, created indivisible cooperative property to other legal entities that may also be outside the borders of our country outside Slovenia, and this does not seem right to us, so we fully support the provision. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also highlight the area of joint audit as specific legal forms of audit. When we look at everyday life, thinking and practice, what revisions are for, that business is transparent, fair, best, most careful and that partners are aware of it. The new law abolishes the peer review, triggering considerable opposition between cooperatives and the Association of Slovenia. The formal removal is due to the termination of the joint audit in the new auditing law and the transitional period within which the Slovenian Association was authorised to provide the audit service expired in July of this year. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in this case, we understand the arguments of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in order to allow a joint review of the bill to result in a disagreement between the two laws on this issue, which is legally inadmissible. That is why we did not support the relevant amendments which, at the meeting of the parent working body, returned the right to review to the Association of Slovenia. Nevertheless, we still expect the Ministry of Finance to provide a substantive explanation of why a new audit law had to be lifted. We are wondering whether the area of joint audit may need to be aligned with the relevant directives and whether it has only occurred because of a set of circumstances, since the revision of the auditing law was first amended, which is before the implementation of the European Cooperative into our legislation. Could there have been doubts about the professionalism, independence and impartiality of the Association of Slovenia, which is the auditor of the Joint Audit? Is it possible to lobby other audit firms that have pledged additional profits in this important area? These are the questions we're being asked. As we say, we expect the response of the competent ministry and then we will make a final decision. If it turns out that we are going in the positive, the right direction for the benefit of society, then we are ready to accept and support all the transparents and clear proposals from which they will come. Finally, it must be said that membership in a club such as the European Union is, and will bring us a lot of positive, and sometimes some problems. We will have to accept and implement things that will not be best for us in those moments. This must be accepted, so in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the bill as a good thing, but it is certainly not yet final. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. All together, also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act contains at least two important chapters. This is the possibility of setting up a European cooperative and allowing them to become members of the cooperative as well as investors who do not use cooperative services, but cooperate with it only with a capital share. These two, in our view, are very important content that is regulated in this law. A European cooperative may be established if it is established by natural persons residing in at least two Member States. The same applies to companies or other legal persons in order to establish a European cooperative if they are established in at least two Member States of the European Union. Importantly, the fact that the property of the cooperative must not be distributed between members or upon termination, i.e. the property created in the Republic of Slovenia is not transferred, for example, to the territory of another country, which was also the founder of the European cooperative, but this property is retained with us and transferred, if there is no other successor, to the Association of Slovenia. This was also one of the important data when we read this law and it seems to us that this solution is extremely important and appropriate. The law also regulates the joint audit, which is coordinated by the Cooperatives Act, with the Audit Act. The joint audit will be in line with the Audit Act. Up to 2. Seven. Although the audit may have been carried out by a cooperative association, after that date it may carry out a joint audit by an economic company or independent entrepreneur who has obtained the authorisation of the Institute for the provision of audit management services. Since the cooperative is neither an economic company nor an independent entrepreneur, it is no longer able to carry out an audit under the auditing law. This is one of the issues that we also consider in the Group of Social Democrats that has not yet been fully cleared, but it is not possible to write into the content of this law in a way that, at present, the relationship can no longer be reviewed. However, we believe that the law on auditing should be examined in the future and that it may be possible to re-enable this audit to be carried out by a cooperative relationship. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to another fact that we are meeting again and again in cooperatives that, when we are talking about state aid or aid for economic development, we want to become a cooperative and cooperative economic society. At the moment when we are talking about auditing, however, he wants to carry out an audit within a cooperative relationship. This question, too, seems to me that it would be extremely important to clear up when we talk about who can revise cooperatives. At the time of consideration of this law, the issue of the inseparable property of craft cooperatives was also raised. This is a property that was created before 1992 and was a social property, and today it is not possible to share this property among the members of the cooperative. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it will be necessary to examine the possibility of adopting a specific law dealing with non-agricultural cooperatives in order to address this problem. In this law we would then also try to determine solutions that will also regulate the status of the social property of non-agricultural cooperatives. In this law, however, this solution could not be taken into account or incorporated and the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, which was also forwarded to the Group of Members, was not taken into account. Let me say that we will also support the amendment within the Group of Members, which is more precisely regulated by the majority of the votes of the members of the applicants. This amendment can be followed by a maximum of 25% or lower, and this amendment will be supported in its consideration. We will also support the adoption of the Cooperation Act, which is submitted for consideration by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Rado Likar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! One of the forms of integration and organisation of Slovenian farmers is exactly cooperatives. Legislation in this regard shall be amended in accordance with the needs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law, as it is a matter of implementing a regulation of the Council of the European Union which stipulates that a cooperative in the form of a European cooperative can be established in the territory of the Community and that Member States adopt appropriate provisions ensuring the effective application of this Regulation. The European Cooperative is a legal person established, operated and terminated under European Community law, and the regulation of certain issues also leaves it to the Member State where the European Cooperative is established. The novelty for Slovenian cooperative law is also the introduction of a single management system introduced by the Regulation as an option right of the European cooperative. There are no provisions on this system of management of the Slovenian cooperative law. The Regulation allows Member States that have not adopted rules on a single system for their cooperatives to deal in detail with the European cooperative. The new proposed amendment is also intended to completely abolish the current joint audit, which is regulated by the 8th chapter of the current law. The reason for this is that the Ministry of Finance, in prior coordination of the draft law, did not agree with the regulation whereby, under certain additional conditions, they would regulate and maintain a joint audit as a long-standing tradition in society. The reason for the refusal is the view of the Ministry of Finance that the current arrangements for joint audit under the Cooperatives Act and its proposed amendments and additions do not meet the requirements of the Compulsory Audit Directive for annual and consolidated accounts. The Ministry considers that the arrangements for joint audit cannot be incorporated into the Audit Act without risking non-compliance with the Directive. As we say, in the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act. We will also support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The main reasons for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act are that cooperative law is not subject to harmonisation in the European Union and therefore this area is different across countries. The Regulation defined the legal regime of the European cooperative as a directly applicable regulation and became applicable in August 2006. This provides that a cooperative in the form of a European cooperative may be established within the Community and that Member States themselves shall adopt rules for its implementation. The main objective of this Regulation is to enable individuals and legal persons from different Member States to establish a European cooperative. The content of the Regulation should therefore be adopted by the Member States in their legislation by August 2006, but only some Member States have fulfilled it. In Slovenia, as stated at the presentation of the novel in 2006, the proposal to supplement this Law on Cooperatives in the State Assembly in the final phase was therefore taken over by the view that after the adoption of the law this issue would be settled by a new proposal to supplement the Cooperatives Act. The proposal also contains some minor changes concerning cooperatives under Slovenian law. The aim of these supplements is in particular to ensure the organisational flexibility and stability of cooperatives and to introduce the possibility of involving members of investors who do not use cooperative services but cooperate with them only with a capital share. The main objective of the European Cooperative is to meet the needs of its members and to develop their economic and social activities by contracting with members for the supply of goods or services or the execution of works. The note lays down the conditions for the establishment of a cooperative and the minimum number of founders. For example, it can be established by combining cooperatives governed by legislation, at least two different European Member States, by reshaping cooperatives established under the legislation of a Member State, provided that the cooperative has its seat and the principal administration of the community. The novelty also provides for the allocation of shares of capital, voting rights, organisational structure, among which are mandatory management and supervisory authorities, in the case of a two-tier management system or administrative authority, in the case of a single management system. On the home working body, the members of the committee followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service with the adoption of the corresponding supplements, and we discussed in particular the amendments which were complementaryly intended to reintroduce a joint audit that could be carried out by the audit cooperative or the audit company. Here in the Group of Members, we have indeed followed the opinion of the Government, which in its rejection opinion drew attention to the non-compliance of the two laws on the same issue, which, according to the principle of mutual harmonisation of laws and the legal security of entities involved in audit procedures, is legally inadmissible. The Directive already emphasises the independence and impartiality of the statutory auditor and the audit firm, which must be authorised by the competent authority to carry out audits. The statutory auditors may therefore carry out the statutory audit only, which are more precisely laid down by Slovenian legislation in the law on auditing and are companies or independent entrepreneurs than individuals authorised by the Institute for the provision of audit services. But it can't possibly be a audit liaison. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that the amendment of the law is also necessary in terms of the implementation of the European acquis into Slovenian legislation, so we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings are given to secretaries, coworkers, as well as you, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a new cooperative law. The proposal of the novel shall include the development of the economic or social activities of members during the activities of the cooperative, as set out in the activities of the European Cooperative, allowing the participation of persons who do not intend to provide the goods and services of the cooperative, and prescribes the obligation to form a Supervisory Committee and an Audit Commission, provided that the cooperative's securities are traded in an organised market. The proposal for a law repeals a joint audit, which is a specific statutory form of audit, in view of the views of the Ministry of Finance and in view of the fact that the law governing the audit allows for the Joint Association of Slovenia to carry out an audit by July 2009. However, the new auditing law only includes companies and independent entrepreneurs authorised to provide audit services. Here my position differs somewhat from that of the Group of Members. The proposal for a new law also provides for the establishment of a European cooperative and entry into the register, the establishment by combining the transformation of the cooperative, the management of a two-track, single management system, the tasks of the Management Board and the general assembly of the European cooperative, the transfer of the seat and the termination of the European cooperative with its head office in the Republic of Slovenia. The main objective of the European cooperative is to meet the needs of its members and to develop their economic and social objectives. For a European cooperative or another, it may establish at least 5 natural persons residing in at least two different European countries or natural persons and legal persons who must also be established in two different countries. In addition, the cooperative can also be established by merging or by reshaping individual cooperatives. The European cooperative’s capital is divided into shares as otherwise defined in the Company Act. The rules of the European cooperative provide for a minimum amount under which the underlying capital must not be reduced. This is 50,000 euros in our case, while in the EU it is 120,000 euros on average. The shares issued by the European cooperative with cash deposits shall be paid on the day of entry, at least 25% and the remaining shares may be paid in the next 5 years. The cooperative shall have a meeting of the municipalities and, in addition, in a two-tier system, also the Business Committee and the Supervisory Board and the single system of the Management Board. Of course, each cooperative must also have its own rules or cooperative status. Each member shall have one vote at the General Assembly of the European Cooperation Council, which is very important. All other cooperatives, however, are only eligible for exceptions to the principle of equal voting rights to that extent and on the basis of rather complex rules. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the very important novelty that is ahead of us, which is also the insurance of inseparable property when the cooperative ends or when the cooperative is transferred. The non-separable property must be transferred in any way to the Association or to the nearest existing cooperative in the environment in the event that the cooperative withdraws and goes to another company. This article is very important. The Ministry of Agriculture gives permission for this indivisible property, or it may object to this if the establishment of the European Cooperative is transferred, for example, to another cooperative.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that only blindly following the European Union's regulations, standards and directives, without the protection of national interests, is not an acceptable act for the Slovenian National Party. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cooperatives Act will not receive our support. Dear Secretary of State Sonja Bukovec. We have repeatedly given written warning to the Ministry of Agriculture and asked questions from Members about what is happening to Slovenian land. Even without this change, it was possible that foreigners were buying Slovenian land. The fact is, in a sophisticated way, it passes this land into the hands of foreigners. Today, in this law, the proposal also abolishes joint audit as a specific legislative form of audit. And only five founders are needed to establish a cooperative. Italy, ladies and gentlemen, is already giving favourable loans to T+0 for the purchase of property and land, but strictly to the permanent border. That's what they buy the rapal border with. That's what I've already said about this pay phone, and I've warned you. The government also knows these purposes and the Italian residents can thus purchase cheap land. 60 million Italians will easily pick up what Slovenia has at its disposal, because also because of the economic situation these lands are being sold. That's an extra blow we're doing today. I'm sure you all don't realize what you're doing. And we will open the door wide to anyone who wants to get to Slovenian territory. On the one hand, this covert alienation on a purely straightforward way of doing things daily Croatia. In another way, Slovenia cannot protect national interests without some long-term visions and blindly follow European standards and send such proposals of laws to the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service points to the drafting of a new law, which has been heard here today precisely because it is not in line with other laws and is in conflict with other legislation. But you won't mind if we don't confirm this law today. I ask you, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Agriculture: What will we do tomorrow when we find that we have sold cheap agricultural land to foreign citizens without the protection of national interests? Who's going to be responsible for this? Are you taking this responsibility at the Ministry? We have warned of this action two years ago and constantly to this day. The government didn't do anything, not the last one, not this one. The agricultural land fund is one of the criminal associations themselves. Not to mention what's going on there. And you know very well because you yourself have proposed to replace the director, the previous government has been thinking about it, and nothing has happened until today. Why do we simply not think in this context about having congregations with these lands? This would also give municipalities the opportunity and opportunity to obtain capital to manage. Last but not least, fewer municipalities would be on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because we know that municipalities that do not have sufficient financial resources depend on the budget. You simply don't want to do this because we want to be a nation of servants, as it seems. If this is accepted, it is the beginning of the end of the vocabulary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing there's no wish to discuss it. Yeah? I'm asking you to sign up. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have already drawn attention to the important fact that is enshrined in this law, namely that they may also become members of the Chamber and investors who are not otherwise users of the services of the cooperative. I would like to point out that this is one of the extremely important and open issues of modern cooperative law, and it is also extremely important that this law seeks to define as closely as possible the voting of members who are present as investors in cooperatives, thus contributing to their capital, so that they can then share their profits and thus enrich their capital. And in order not to overly influence the functioning of the cooperative or possibly even conflict of interest, because capital might even prevent the operation of the cooperative or its basic mission, the limitation of this voting right to 25% of the outstanding outstanding article present is an important article. And this amendment further defines this percentage of votes that can be reached at the congregation itself. Given that this is indeed one of the extremely important issues, we will support this amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. I think, however, that at the time of the establishment of the European cooperative, and when the interest is also expressed that an investor who does not use its services will also have to be extremely careful and monitor all these procedures. It is true that whether someone becomes a member of a cooperative that is not also a user of these services is decided by the authorities of each cooperative, but it does not mean that the Ministry or Government are also trying to monitor such associates and such decisions in cooperatives and, if necessary, to act accordingly. Finally, I have in mind one of the experiences that has already happened in Slovenia when cooperatives sold their shares in the sugar factory in Ormož and it happened that we do not have this factory in Slovenia today. And even to avoid possible other opportunities that could be created by partners in cooperatives in other areas, this is an extremely important issue, and I hope that they will be aware of it both in cooperatives and governments, which will then rule so that there will be no more serious problems and difficulties in the possible exercise of cross-interest in cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Miroslav Klun.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! We will support the law in the parliamentary group because we have to support it, but otherwise it does not bring any particular benefit to the Slovenian partnership. In my opinion, there is no particular need for Slovenian partners to use or connect with the SCE Institute, as cooperation with members, for example from border countries, is almost as a rule difficult. Exceptions could be cooperatives operating in certain segments of the cultural field or those which satisfy the needs of their members in social activities, if any. The consequences of adaptations in other areas governed by the law in force are intended to ensure organisational flexibility and stability for cooperatives and to introduce the possibility of including members of non-cooperating capital investors in combination with the cross-border cooperation mentioned above. The Ministry of Agriculture, the economy in the second paragraph of point 2.2.7.a, only mentions the deterioration of domestic society as a result of the transformation of cooperatives into SCE or the transfer of SCE headquarters to another Member State. Even though the law contains a fuse, that even when the seat is transferred to another country, the cooperative inseparable property remains at home, is transferred to a cooperative relationship, I think caution is not excessive. Although we must adopt the law, the options offered in informal contacts would be better advised to the interested parties. The cooperative law will soon have to be fully recast. The regulation should distinguish between agricultural cooperatives and other cooperatives, at the same time also adapt the arrangements for SCE to a specific law, as in Sweden. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which also has trade cooperatives in its composition, drew attention to the problems and also tabled an amendment which was unfortunately not adopted and probably not sufficiently understood. Otherwise, the complication with the peer review suggests that the cooperative law should be rewritten, even as I said, to separate between agricultural and other cooperatives, such as crafts, housing, cultural and so on, or even to write, in my personal opinion, two laws: one specifically for agricultural cooperatives and the other for all others in the field of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u24	The area of society is certainly one of the most important areas. The truth is, in Slovenia, the partnership is synonymous with this sector of organisation in agriculture. It is true, however, that in other areas, as Mr Klun has mentioned, the possibility of organising a society is now, so in recent times, at the time of this economic crisis, again in other areas there is an increased need, or urgency, for the establishment of cooperatives. In this amendment, which we have tabled, we want to make very clear with the amendment in the law that there is a right for investors who do not use cooperative services to enter cooperatives, but that the law clearly sets out what is the highest threshold, such as the highest percentage of the management of this 25% stake, the number of votes, and that there is no automaticity that the decision can actually be such that those who invest their capital in cooperatives, in accordance with the agreement, either have a lower share or no voting rights. So I think this case is fine and I'm glad that the rest of you support such an amendment. However, I think that this option, which we now introduce in the Slovenian legal order in relation to society, is one very important change in the Slovenian cooperative system, which, if properly applied, will give the partnership the opportunity to strengthen the important role it already plays today, especially in the field of organising production, then also to buy back this production, but unfortunately in recent years the cooperative has lost its influence both in the processing industry and in the retail sector in particular. On the Agriculture Committee in the spring, we have also reviewed in detail the area of prices and also these anomalies that are taking place in Europe in the area of agriculture, where the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs, before completing its work in the previous European Parliament's mandate, has highlighted this area and stressed how cooperatives should play a greater role and how both the European Commission and individual governments should give greater attention to this area and allow both the food quality network and the local food produced, as well as the organisation of trade, to give more opportunity and to reintroduce the cooperative system and the actual food to the consumer through those producing it, not only through large commercial chains. And the findings were that the higher the concentration of trade, then the higher the price difference. Such an amendment and with this intent of this law makes it possible, in fact, to make it very difficult, at times, for reasons of lack of capital among members of cooperatives, among farmers, for them to choose to increase their own shares, either in processing industries or in commercial networks. I think that this amendment of legislation now gives this very opportunity for the stakeholders to actually be able to connect with each other. By this provision, the maximum percentage of the number of votes is 25%, but this basic mutual interest is secured and the end, as we have heard today, of this indivisible cooperative property. In the Slovenian People's Party we will support this amendment, and the rest, as I have heard from the institutions, you have no problem with this amendment, and I am pleased. I would also like to see further amendments to the Law on Auditing and the Cooperatives Act regulate that then revisions will be possible, not every two years, as has been the case so far, but every five years, even in small cooperatives, actually have control over this indivisible cooperative property. We will support this amendment, and I hope that you will also remain a group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u25	There is still a desire for debate. I'm opening a new application circuit, please. First, I will give the floor to Mrs Sonja Bukovec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It may not have been stressed enough before, but I would also say that the most sophisticated cooperative rules have German states, Austria, Germany, that is to say our immediate neighbours, by whom we have followed the example of the preparation of the existing cooperative law and earlier. However, they are less familiar with cooperatives or cooperatives in the Anglo-Saxon countries, Sweden, Denmark and so on, in Scandinavian countries where, as I know, they do not have a specific cooperative law. This law, which we introduce in our country, not only governs agriculture, as has been said today, but it intervenes more widely. Therefore, this law may certainly not be decisive in the purchase of Slovenian land by foreigners. This area will be regulated by the Agricultural Lands Act, which will soon be on your benches, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, and you will then discuss it. As regards the amendment, which was not actually tabled or debated by the Member, in order to share the assets created before 1992. I believe that this area was governed by the Property Transformation Act of 1992 and would, of course, be affected by the possible inclusion or application of this provision in Article 155 of the Constitution today. And that wouldn't be acceptable. The cooperative property, the social property created before 1992, was then prohibited from being distributed. And this is still part of this inseparable cooperative property today. But all the joint assets that came after 1992 can be distributed when they're cut off, I don't know, cooperatives. If you don't mind, that's all. If the conditions laid down in Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were met, I would suggest that a third treatment be included today, given that the members of the groups have shown their preference for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you. We will take this into account once we have come to the vote, we will take note. The word has Robert Croat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The partnership is an extremely important topic that we are dealing with today. It is true, however, that this amendment is about minor legislative changes, as it follows the European Union Directive. The content itself has now been quite said, and it is a shame to waste time. I would just like to say that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the amendment's proposer, also clearly with the law, because this amendment actually makes this provision clearer so that investors can also have a smaller share of the votes in the general assembly, as I have already said, so we have no problem. However, it might be possible to touch on one topic which was on the committee, although this does not fall under this amendment, but on the Committee the most was the review speech. The fact is, it's too bad it doesn't stay the way it has been so far. I think that the audit carried out by the cooperative as the best-known one, I think it was a welcome one, and I am surprised in some way that, when adopting it in 2007, when adopting legislation on revisions, this matter was overlooked. Whether it was deliberately overlooked, but as I asked myself, the fact is that there may have been some guilt in a social relationship when they were not paying the most attention to this matter and the shame that this matter had fallen out because it would actually matter or it would have had a significant impact on the operation itself. Today, too, it has already been announced that the revision of the audit legislation will be amended or tabled. Clearly, it makes sense to think about it. The question, however, is whether the revision law was also the result of a directive and the adaptation to directives at the time. This is where you need to be careful. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment tabled by the People's Party, and we will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you. Happy Friend has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Is it not strange that some government Members claim from the bench that the law simply needs to be adopted and that they have doubts? It is not unusual for the Secretary of State to say that it is possible to share and that they have already been such cases, but that there is no danger that this would happen now on the basis of this new law. Not today, I'm saying it could happen in years, tomorrow. The cooperative can be established by anyone, you wrote down, including those who are not involved in this activity. Dear Secretary of State, does not the European budget spend the most money on agriculture? Does not Europe force some countries to stop producing because the hyperproduction of certain food items in certain segments in certain countries is too high and the pressures are too high? Is this not already happening in Slovenia? You had this so-called virgin harvest this year, and you paid for it to rip green grapes. Does this not mean that Slovenia is losing its strategic potential to protect its interests? We will be with the products, with those articles that bear the name of Slovenia into the world? This is happening today. Italy and I are always in some offensive for Slovenia in this particular area. This is happening now. The Vovk family took all the production to Italy. I believe you're not interested. That's where this brand will be made. The question is whether the meat processing industry will still do what it did in Gorica. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will receive a request when cooperatives are established with the capital of foreigners to stop producing a certain article bearing the name of Slovenia. Maybe it'll be a karst fence - a ban on production. Then you'll be gone, and you won't want to hear it, either you or the Minister for Responsibility. Do not deceive the Slovenian public, please, when we are talking about that it is necessary to do so. It doesn't have to be done. Not like that. And the bill also asserts the right to abolish a joint audit, which is a kind of nonsense. The fact that this law is not prepared in accordance with the law also reminds you of the Law-Legal Service. It even proposes the drafting of a new law. I could still list the reasons for not accepting this law, but I believe they'll actually run into deaf ears. These arguments, these proposals will not be heard. So I just want to add one more sentence to that. If this is accepted, tell me what is the difference between rent, rent, in fact, or cooperative or land purchase. If the lease is for 99 years, I can do whatever I want. And that is exactly what foreign partners will do to us and you have not taken this national interest into account. The protection of national interest in a small country such as Slovenia should be such that none of the foreigners could have come here if, of course, it has no serious purpose to create a new added value here, to create products here, which will also bear the name of Slovenia, to work here with its capital in fact what is the purpose of agricultural land. You wrote in the law that a cooperative can also be established by someone who does not intend to engage in this activity. And if we take into account how much one square metre of agricultural land costs and what the purchasing power is in other countries, we can quickly figure out what stupidity you've done.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, then we'll open another round of debate. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I'm saying, when there's a lot of populism and nationalist floscules that don't have anything to do with farming, then it's easy to come by. These things go simply too far in Slovenia and the law we are talking about today has nothing to do with it. To all those who, of course, advocate and propose a national interest, I ask you to tell them how many cultivated areas you have now cleaned. We're growing up in Slovenia. It doesn't matter who owns that moment. The important thing is that he is good at mastering himself and that something is done. But now he's been hitting himself for weeks and weeks with some stuff that doesn't have anything to do with cooperatives. I must say that the European cooperative is a good cooperative, a good quality, Europe has a longer tradition of association than Slovenia and what happens to cooperatives in Switzerland, Austria, Germany is going in the right direction and is also regulated by law. Today, by presenting this law, I am sure that, even with adoption, we have taken steps in the right direction to adapt. We have problems in the area of audit, because obviously our legislation is not harmonised in all areas, it is necessary to correct and eliminate this, to support our farmer, our partnership, and especially those who have more to do with cooperatives, to work on people's thinking. The purpose of the cooperative is for people to combine work, resources and sales in good and bad, and for us it happens that people leave their cooperatives in shopping and selling, because somewhere else they get one cent or two better conditions. We must first think in our heads that these cooperatives will truly be ours, that we will live with them and then the situation in the countryside will be good. On the other hand, as far as agriculture is concerned, we are at risk of ourselves with unemployment, and we are at risk by the non-stimulation of people in the countryside, and we are at risk by foreigners at this moment. A typical case where we have a big problem, the abolition of small slaughterhouses, the ban on slaughter at home. As a result, Slovenian rural areas, especially where they are heavier, impossible conditions, leave and empty. If we had previously been able to stimulate families to grow their own crops where they are growing today and to spend them in the family circle, that is not the case today. And here we have the need for marriage and mania to settle this in the countryside, and this will certainly be one of our initiatives in short. It's either a fact of nationalism or it's not going anywhere. One of them can be repeated indefinitely, and you'll get 9% or 10% for that, but it's not a state-of-the-art policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you. You want a replica, Mr. Friend? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u34	Of course I want a replica. Mr. Saiovic, it is a pity that you are a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You said, "It doesn't matter who owns the Slovenian land." I will remember that, and I will write it at the door of our Group of Members with a footnote on who said that. Shame on you! It's about growing up. Your farm could be infested. I can tell you about Primorsko, I myself run a professional council for the development of agriculture in Primorsk, which is a regular consultative body of the Ministry of Agriculture. We've cleaned the area, agricultural areas by more than 50%. Years ago, there was a fire so we wouldn't talk about who was speaking demagogism and who wasn't, which helped put Austria and Italy out. Three and a half years after intensive cleaning of these surfaces, we had no large-scale fire. And if you have a farm that's growing, don't judge a man by yourself after you have two ducks that have nowhere to go, then don't judge a man by what others have at home. And there's something else I'd like to say to you, if you're not as much Slovenian as you don't see what's going on and you're out of the class, then it's better to hand the mandate over to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u35	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u36	Once again, I would like to point out that it is extremely important that the land in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia will always remain in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, even in the case of, say, the cessation of the operation of cooperatives or the transfer of headquarters from one country to another is, of course, still in Slovenia. And if there is no legal successor, in the event of bankruptcy or anything like that, this property shall be transferred to a cooperative relationship which is in that country or registered in which the land is located. Thus, I do not think that the problem of Slovenia losing its land or anything like that can actually be traced back to this law. However, I would like to point out the fact that I have also somehow warned in this amendment that members of the cooperative who are investors and are not users of the services, of course, need special attention. And the amendment we are talking about in this article also refers to the fact that members of the cooperative can decide that such investors do not have a voting right, but of course they can have a maximum of 25% of the voting rights. This also, in my view, is a safeguard given to protect national interests and that this cooperative law should not, too, reduce the impact of national interest in the functioning of cooperatives within the country in which it operates. However, if there is a European cooperative, when it is established or with the assistance of natural persons or companies established in at least two countries, such rules should of course also be duly adopted to protect national interests. I think that this law protects these national interests in any case. At least in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Secretary of State and everyone else. The fundamental objective of society or cooperatives, in my view, is not to create the greatest possible profit, but to satisfy the interests of its members. Of course, without money and capital, it doesn't work. I myself believe that the Cooperatives Act should be rewritten, and this law, which will be written on the skin of our farmer, is said to the Slovenian farmer that a long-term possibility will be created for the Slovenian farmer to survive and thus to preserve our villages, preserve the settlement and prevent the incursions. Today, in my opinion, these cooperatives, here I have in mind agricultural cooperatives, do not carry out their fundamental mission, that is, as I mentioned earlier, the realization of the interests of its members. However, the entry of investors into membership requires a good degree of caution, and from this point of view I support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round of debate. I'm asking you to sign up. You didn't sign up very well, mate. If no one else wants to discuss it, then I am closing the debate. The amendment will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on the efficiencies of the law on the supplementation of the law on the corporate income tax, the summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Merry Christmas. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Council of Likar for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. At its 14th urgent meeting on 11 September 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Complements of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, which was submitted by a group of Members with first-signed mags to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. Merry Christmas. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its meeting on 7. 9. Proposal for a short-term examination of certificates. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which provided a number of concrete comments on the individual paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the legislative proposal, which, inter alia, states that the newly introduced investment facility is without further explanation and thus departs from other systemic solutions. As a result, the proposed provisions are not sufficiently specific and are therefore unclear, nor are the explanations presented in more detail. At the same time, the Committee took note of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, after a large, rebuttal of such a proposal in conclusion, assesses that the integrated measures taken in the field of corporate income taxation are still within the scope of the public financial possibilities, while further burdens would exceed the limits of public financial sustainability. For this reason, additional such proposals are currently unacceptable. On the basis of the information provided, the Government opposes the addition submitted and considers that the proposed Law on Complements of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons is not appropriate at the moment for further consideration. In a complementary explanation of the proposal, the representative of the proposers stressed the marked surplus of measures in the area of direct economic growth incentives, although in a given situation the so-called credit crunch does not give up. In parallel, the number of unemployed is increasing, export activity is declining, and in particular gross investment is much lower compared to last year. The proposed novelty, following further incentives from private sector investments, is intended to influence the additional growth of the economy and to ensure greater productivity. As a result, accelerated economic recovery would contribute to a larger purchase of the taxes collected in full, so that the expected loss of public funds will be covered in the long term. After further explanation of the opinion of the Government and presentation of the written findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Chairman of the Committee, pursuant to Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, proposed a discussion and a vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons was not suitable for further consideration. Following the discussion, the members of the Committee also presented different views on behalf of the groups of Members, asked individual questions and expressed certain opinions. According to the debaters who followed the Government's view and expressed support for the decision submitted, the impact of both private and public capital is needed for the development-oriented products of the economic sector. However, the economy currently facing the acquisition of liquidity assets to maintain current production is unlikely to risk greater investment investments. On the other hand, in the manner proposed, they would only go into one segment of the tax reform, although the situation would require a comprehensive treatment of all the expected, i.e. positive, negative consequences, while taking into account the overall result of the effects of all the measures introduced. It is therefore a measure of relief to introduce both in an appropriate manner and at the right time. In this respect, the position of the Government is worth all the support, and even the coalition treaty has been conceived in this direction. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons was not suitable for further consideration and voted on the proposal to be added to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the bill's proponents, mag. Radovan Žerjav, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the face of the coming economic crisis, the current Government has taken some measures to mitigate the consequences of this economic crisis and to promote the economy. We have very different opinions about their effects or consequences. I believe that they were not brave enough, determined enough, and not effective enough. In the second quarter, the economic crisis in Slovenia was further deepened as GDP declined by as much as 9.3% compared to the second quarter of 2008. UMAR in the latest edition of its regular statistical publication of 7. 9. 2009 mentions a fall in export activity of 21.3% and a fall in investment activity of 27.3% as a key reason for falling GDP at that level. The Statistical Office even notes that gross investments fell by 36.7% in the second quarter. We all know that for the first reason, any direct influence is difficult. Our exports depend on the economic climate and consumption in the countries to which we export most. On the other hand, investment activity can be affected through public sector investments and private sector investments. In explaining the balance of the budget, we have all come to the conclusion that the possibility of increasing public sector investment is no longer that we have reached a maximum if you want. We therefore have only thought about how to stimulate private sector investments; investments that will trigger the Slovenian economy and provide longer-term economic productivity. This is an area where, in our view, too little has been done. However, the measures aimed at the economy are unfortunately aimed, so to speak, only at extinguishing the fire but not at stimulating economic activity. The government still, despite all the louder criticisms and warnings in this area, pushes its head into the sand. So what can we do? It is imperative that the Slovenian economy be encouraged to start investment or to stimulate investment activity. Only these, in our opinion, can at this moment reverse the course of events as it is. In January, by amending the Law on corporate income tax, we increased the investment aid to 30 % of the amount invested in the equipment, with a maximum absolute relief of EUR 30 000. Most Slovenian companies do not benefit from this. It is urgent and immediately necessary to remove this undue amount of relief. This is required by both the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and many economists. This is at the opening of the trade fair before several hundred-headed crowds of promises also made by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. The economy needs more motivation and more support for restarting, overcoming problems and finding opportunities that are offered despite times of crisis. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we have drawn up a proposal for a law aimed at encouraging the economy to invest, which would result in growth and development also in these difficult changes. Due to the expected lower economic activity this year, in 2010 and 2011, as a result of the previous financial crisis, the proposed temporary measures will mainly stimulate the start-up of new investments. The proposal for a law provides for a temporary amendment to the investment relief already in place. It is proposed to increase the amount that can be claimed as an investment relief, which would allow the facilitation of the proposed law to be applied at 15% of the investment amount in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Since less developed areas are particularly affected by the recession, the proposal for a law contains a solution allowing for a higher degree of relief in such areas. We also propose a temporary possibility to implement a relief for investments in land and buildings. Respectable. The bill is correct and necessary, so I propose that we oppose the proposal of the labour force and vote that the bill is a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I won't be explaining the government's opinion for long. You got it in writing. We have already introduced it three times in the National Assembly, since the initiative to amend this Article of the Law has already been tabled three times and we have dealt with it three times. Therefore, with all the arguments that she would have cited here, she would now be doubling. But I'd like to point out two. In January 2009, we listened to the initiative of Mr Tank, I think, whether the Visionary who introduced the same law with the same initiative and then the amount of tax relief for investment has been raised since then valid. Some other elements have also been introduced that have helped to increase the amount of recognised investment costs, which has helped to enable investors to benefit from greater tax incentives. According to the information we have available, there is no need for such relief, apart from the individual cases, to be raised. However, I have to say one more thing: the tax returns on the profits of legal persons were halved in 2009 compared to the year before. This means that only a reduction in the contribution rate this year is one percentage point per year. In addition, a different way of charging corporate tax advances has made an important contribution to the decommissioning of the economy at this point. It is not possible to explain such a fall in tax revenues under this heading only with reduced economic activity and poor results in 2008. This is how we think that these measures adopted by the National Assembly through two laws this year have already made a significant contribution to the objective that led to the initiative to re-examine the law. We therefore believe that there is no need to re-interfer into the existing law. That is why we also propose that you do not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Once again, hello to the Secretary of State. People say that the roads to hell are pressed with good intentions, but in bankruptcy public finances, of course, by spending and borrowing beyond measure. Colleagues have drawn up a law which has two, three points of excellent purpose, would certainly support it and deserve all consideration and all support if, of course, it were fiscally sustainable, acceptable and feasible. Madam Secretary of State has given us some facts and, of course, I wonder, when we are going to talk about the budget and about the public debt, then we will be exposed to fire and sulphur, what is going on, what is going on, how is being thought, and on the other hand there is a proposal for a law and measures which, of course, are further deepening this public debt and a hole. Surely we all like and are fine with the need to support the economy and these objectives, but it is therefore necessary to have money in the back. Once again, I have to say that in principle we agree with the proposers that a concrete investment relief measure could be one of the mechanisms for accelerating the economic start-up or easing the resettlement of this crisis. However, the measure is certainly unacceptable from a public financial point of view. If you want to put it somewhere, of course you have to take it somewhere. In these acute circumstances, the concrete proposal for a solution or additional investment aid for investment in equipment and intangible assets, where the investment amount exceeds EUR 200,000, is certainly not financially sustainable. As Members, we are also custodians that we do not spend much more in terms of finance than we are able to earn and pay back. That's why we can't support these solutions. Similarly, we have a negative position in terms of fiscal sustainability until additional investment relief is applied to intangible assets, which are part of the purchase of land or buildings. Of course, given the declaration, the well-intention of such solutions, which have already been presented several times on our parliamentary benches, cannot go beyond the fact that the opposition probably does not always mean it. Simply put, given the state of the state budget, we cannot afford such measures. It is also illogical that, in the face of the opposition's daily rage over the budget gap, I stress once again, it proposes measures to increase such a hole. However, another possibility of additional investment relief is highlighted in the bill. Unlike the first two presented, however, we consider this to be worth considering. We are talking about additional relief for an area in Slovenia that is lagging behind in development. According to the Government's interpretation, inter alia, the difficulty of drawing up a state aid scheme based on the European legal framework we are part of is a prerequisite for the implementation of such a measure and, of course, we know what is going on in Prekmurje, and then reflections and measures in this direction are certainly worth taking into account. Therefore, the existing State aid scheme relating to research and development is not appropriate in the case of investment aid. However, it is worth considering that, on the basis of this idea of such an investment relief for areas in Slovenia that are significantly behind the average of development, it is necessary to prepare and need an appropriate measure. In this regard, it is considered a guide to use that these areas should be precisely defined, defined and, of course, targeted to those most seriously neglected in terms of economic development. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u47	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u48	But if there is any broader consensus and [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] the introduction of an additional investment facility for these areas would be financially sustainable; the preparation of a state aid scheme should not constitute such a major obstacle that we together would not be able to overcome together with common strength. [[...]] Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will strive to prepare a publicly acceptable measure. On this basis, we also call on the Government to examine the possibility of preparing such a measure that would help this, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] to help economic operators in these areas bridge the consequences of the crisis and encourage them to invest further. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats of the proposed law supplementing the law on corporate income tax proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed magi. Joyful Zerjav will not support further consideration. We do not dispute the good intentions of the applicants to encourage, in particular, new investments and in areas where GDP is 15% lower than the average in Slovenia, but in particular whether amendments to the law can achieve the proposed effects, or whether it is one of the proposed laws that can be liked but without the right possibility to achieve the objectives set, and whether public finances still transfer such measures. In early 2009, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and amended the limits for the recognition of investment relief. In the past, it was 20% of the invested funds and was limited to 30,000 euros - earlier it was 20, 10 in the year of investment and ten in the year of investment. Some conditions have also been removed, such as the conditions of employment of workers, the problems of Euro 4 vehicles, Euro 5 and some other changes, not to mention them. It is estimated that the change in the law at the beginning of the year has significantly increased the possibility that all investors, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, can make it easier for them to apply. There has also been an increase in the pool of resources that can be qualified for relief. This fulfilled the objective of the tax policy on investment relief and on the basis of public financial capacity at a given time. The changes would certainly not have a positive impact on investment in 2009, as it is not possible to increase some investments by the end of this year, if we have not already planned and started much earlier. However, a particularly interesting proposal is to increase the benefits in areas that are less developed and their GDP is 15% lower than the average in the country. Here we have to listen to the Government's warnings that such a relief in some way means State aid and that its implementation is administratively more difficult for both the debtor and the tax authority. However, for such assistance, it is necessary to draw up a State aid scheme and prior approval of the State aid scheme by the European Commission, taking into account the European Commission's business deadlines, which is the notification process that takes some time. When reviewing such investment facilities in some European countries, the applicant has done so in 10 European countries, it can be seen that virtually none of them have the classic relief we have in our country. However, there are special facilitations in the field of investment in research and development, and this is also regulated by a specific law. From this point of view, we are certainly more successful in various facilitations in the field of Europe. Because the proposed amendments will not achieve the promotion of the economy and the achievement of the objectives set, and because of budgetary constraints, when the Government is making an enormous effort to somehow draw up the 2010 and 2011 budget, we estimate that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Marjan Bezjak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Proposal for a position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The proposal for a law provides for a temporary amendment to the investment relief already in place. It is proposed to increase the amount that can be claimed as an investment relief, by facilitating the application of the proposed law of 15% of the amount invested, in 2009, 2010 and 2011, without limiting the absolute amount of the relief, but most of all in the amount of the tax base, for less developed areas that are particularly affected in the recession, and even higher facilitation is proposed. In addition to equipment, intangible long-term resources are proposed to facilitate 5% also for investments in land and buildings. This proposal is based on the fact that, given that the economic situation in a wide range is similar to that of the 1990s, when such investments are facilitated, it makes sense to temporarily reintroduce this relief in the context of the economic crisis. I would like to point out that we have already proposed several proposals to increase investment facilitation and to facilitate research and development in the form of a legislative proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We have always been rejected by the government and the coalition, and it has now turned out that the decline in investment is the main reason for a drastic decline in economic growth and revenue in the state budget. I therefore hope that the government and the coalition will finally stop moving and will adopt a professionally justified increase in investment relief and thus catch the last train to take us off the station on behalf of the economy from the public financial disaster brought us into by government South Africa or economic policy. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u54	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on corporate income tax is already the third consecutive attempt to implement additional investment incentives without the ceiling for investments in equipment and intangible assets. Applicants propose to recognise for a period of three years investment incentives for investments of more than EUR 200 000, 15% relief or 20% for investments of more than EUR 150 000 in the country where the gross domestic product is 15% lower than the national average. In addition to that proposal, the law provides for a 5% relief for investments in tangible fixed assets. Lawmakers base their proposal on the need to encourage the economy to invest to stimulate growth and development and consequently employment. According to the applicant's assessment, the implementation of the proposed investment incentives would have negative financial implications for the state budget of up to EUR 200 million. Undoubtedly, any tax burden has a beneficial impact on the conditions of management and the proposed solution would undoubtedly have a beneficial impact on the increase in investment activity. Of course, the proposed legislative changes cannot be assessed from this point of view alone, but it is essential to take into account the public financial situation which has deteriorated dramatically and do not allow further tax burdens in the current situation. As a result of this proposal, it is not possible to support the law in a given situation. In the Group of Members, we will therefore really support the decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will try to repeat as few times as possible what has already been said today and what the bill already says. Therefore, I will only try to highlight our relationship, the attitude of the DeSUS Group, to this proposal. First of all, it is likely that the topic of tax relief has actually become a true evergreen in the last period. We keep changing this law. We've had it four times in the last three years: it's been rejected three times, we're trying again today. The basic ambition of letting the economy have more money is a constant. What changes, as the rockers would say, are only variants of the basic theme. Well, that's what we're talking about. We find that the law itself is neither good nor bad. We need to evaluate it by or on the measure it brings and by, or at what time or under what circumstances, individual decisions that may look good on an abstract level are offered. We believe that the proposed measure is now inadequate. For this reason, we do not support the amendments. We also believe that the circumstances are not appropriate, especially if we compare them with some other very topical topics that are just filling the front pages of the media and when we want to help the economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, those that are also needed, we are not able to adequately provide or even serve their acquired rights, not invented. These two extremes are by no means in favor of one another and it is difficult to find such a mode that everyone would support. That is why it is today to expect a decision by way of a vote, not with a great deal of unity. The entities that support these ambitions are known from the outset. These are mainly economic people, from economic associations, offered them long before the crisis, long before this government and this mandate entered, and even then ambitions were not heard, although in different, possibly more favoured circumstances. It is so much less possible to believe that today they will be supported when the opposition Members have adopted them and with some modifications they propose to us in re-examination, and so much less is the power to refer to what the coalition agreement says, where it really says that we are inclined to tackle the economy, but there is also a day of reflection that the appropriate time and conditions must come and the right conditions that have been improved since we wrote it, and to this day, unfortunately have not even worsened. The expectations of what would happen if the marriage were supported are clear. Investment is expected to be significantly accelerated, which would mean the growth of a social gross product, which would mean other economic growth and employment, and this would also result in the filling of all four public cash registers. However, it cannot be counted that these reliefs would in themselves trigger after automaticity all these good effects that are foreseen. This may also need to be measured by paraphrasing. In fact, at first glance, good measures can be produced in this way, as we do if we take aspirin to prevent headaches, which can be beneficial, but if we swallow it too much, it makes us mucous membranes. And if we take these measures compared to all the other measures that have been taken, then we could say that these measures, which are now being proposed, are already starting a meaningful whole that has been prepared in the context of other government proposals. That's why we think it's time for this kind of change sometimes, not this way, even though the economy [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] It will probably not aclaminate, but we also have other effects in mind that may be negative if what is proposed is also accepted. [[..]] Therefore, our Group of Members will support the proposal adopted by the Committee, which has decided that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the supplementation of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons has been criticized by the Government and, as such, has not gone through the mother's working body. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this is not good, because the aim of the proposed law is to encourage the economy to invest, which, as a result, also causes growth and development in these difficult situations, and also given that we do not have a very glamorous situation in GDP, which is minus 9.3%, we can say that if we adopted this law today, we would somehow pollute this tax field with which we are all just collecting. The fact is that Slovenia has adopted several laws to mitigate the consequences of the recession in the short term, and this is encouraging. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have only invested in the work, we are subsidizing reduced working hours, we are encouraging real waiting at home - for companies that have good production, but because of lack of orders thinking about forgiveness, it is also good; and the third package was intended primarily for independent entrepreneurs. That's encouraging. But if we look at it, it's all a mess. However, this is mainly the case for 2009, 2010 and 2011 to recognise a special investment relief, which is necessary and necessary if we are to maintain production at high technological development. We will not do this now, and we will not help the economy in the short and long term, which will have additional consequences for the economy, and this will also be reflected in the number of unemployed who are already 45,000 - only in this year of the new unemployed. We're afraid at the end of the year, and probably the government expects her to have as many as 100,000 unemployed in the institution. With this measure, of course, this trend would be reversed. New jobs would open up because there would also be more investment, and it is illogical for the Government to decide only on the EUR 200 million cost of such a measure. Dear Mr. Mag. Radovan Zerjav, welcome to the opposition! This is the fate of opposition parties when you write a good proposal to be torn down; and this is the arrogance of our policy. We always do that. This has occurred in all mandates when the rulings do not recognise the opposition's good proposal. I think this law, this bill, is living proof of what anomalies and stupidities we do. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we support the law, but not the decision of the national labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no longer a crisis for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why do I say that? At the last three meetings of the National Assembly, in the last four months, 61 laws have been discussed since June. Of this, only four government proposals were linked to anti-crisis measures. At this meeting, in September, there is not a single government measure related to anti-crisis action. Not a single one! And Slovenia's cracking through the seams. The consequences of the crisis in Slovenia have obviously taken place in the worst possible form and are no longer dealt with by the Government. Much energy is invested in the so-called so-called and different structural reforms that we encounter in the wall without any concept or strategy. Let me remind you of the competition in which to predict some new additional tax on the freezing of wages and now the last proposal, the freezing of pensions. The so-called short-term subsidisation measure, which we allocated over 200 million euros to be written on the skin of the labour intensive industries, especially Gorenje, was said to have collapsed into dust. After the current tape, without the slightest consideration, you reject every proposal by the opposition and dialogue with us, as if all the minds of this world were gathered only on one side, i.e. on the coalition side. Since you do not have any answers to the situation in the Government, you try to confuse the situation even with ideological and populist themes. This is, of course, the most appropriate moment for a public debate on the equalisation of the legal rights of same-sex partners with marriage. If we solve this problem, we will probably solve all the problems in Slovenia. The bill before us is necessary and necessary. They point to this and agree with it, once again, in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, such a measure has not been announced and promised by the President of the Government at the opening of the trade fair in Celje, and is supported by many economists. No measure taken by the Government was aimed at stimulating economic activity, but unfortunately only at putting the fire out. Such criticisms are increasingly being voiced by economic experts. The unsustainable and difficult situation in terms of investment is noted by OMAR. And you keep putting your head in the sand. Okay! It is imperative that the Slovenian economy be encouraged to start investment or to stimulate investment activity. In the SLS Group, we have drawn up a proposal for a law aimed at encouraging the economy to invest, which would result in growth and development also in these difficult changes. However, since we have proposed it in the SLS Group, it must, of course, be rejected. The Minister of Finance's argument is more than ridiculous: it is supposed to be an inappropriate time, as it is supposed to be financially incoherent at the moment. The government will propose it when it is financially sustainable. I wonder, of course, when will this be? When will he be financially sustainable? A lot of you talked about financial sustainability. But we read differently in newspapers, about waste. I am increasingly convinced that in addition to the so-called women's quotas, some quotas for economic operators will have to be introduced in the elections of the National Assembly and in the composition of the Government. They are missing, both in this house and in our government. In the SLS Group, we will, of course, object to the proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I suggest we all do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. This is the third defensive proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of the management and supervisory bodies in the course of the financial and economic crisis under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Villa Trofenik. I give the floor to the motioner of the Bill, William Trofenik, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The consequences of the economic and financial crisis also require appropriate measures in the area of wages of managers. The existing system of awarding managers stimulates some specific management behaviour that is short-term, risky and promotes moral gambling, rewards success, and does not sanction failures. The problem of ensuring adequate wages for managers in the light of the current situation is increasingly a problem of management ethics. The reduction in the wages of managers depends more on the decision of the managers themselves than on the supervisory authorities. The law is therefore intended to pay the management of legal entities that have been or have received various State aids to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, as these salaries present a particular problem in the area of ensuring a system of adequate wages for managers in view of crisis situations. As a result, additional taxation should prevent or eliminate the payment of unjustifiable awards and the extraordinary award of management in times of financial and economic crisis and allow solidarity management to contribute to the recovery of the financial and economic crisis by paying higher taxes. The proposed law therefore provides that natural persons who run or supervise legal entities receiving state aid to mitigate the effects of the financial and economic crisis will be liable to pay an additional tax of 49% per month, which exceeds EUR 12 000 500 per month, for prizes exceeding EUR 25 000 per year and for emoluments exceeding EUR 75,000, and for credits exceeding EUR 25 000 per year. The additional tax is also payable to members of the supervisory authorities of the recipients of State aid, namely for meetings exceeding EUR 358 per session and for prizes if they exceed the amount of EUR 12 000 500 per year. The additional tax debtors are obliged to submit the corresponding tax forecast by 31 March of the year, while the payers, the recipients of the State aid, are obliged to provide the State authority with the necessary data to calculate the tax. The law is to be in force by the end of 2010 or by the end of the tax year in which the guarantees or guarantees and measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis are to expire. Since the amendments adopted in the second reading have improved the law or have resolved certain shortcomings which have raised doubts about the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, I expect the legislative text submitted to be definitively confirmed. However, with regard to the amendment tabled, I would like to point out that it goes beyond this concept of law and is therefore not possible to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ma'am mag. Kamnareva, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Act, which is currently under consideration, makes sense to complement the measures already taken by the Government in the field of limiting the remuneration of managers and supervisory authorities. In fact, this year the government has already adopted three measures, or three documents, on this subject, which, for the first time, has limited payments by managers and supervisors in state companies. After the analysis we have done two months ago, we have found that virtually all state-owned companies follow almost fully the recommendations issued by the Government regarding the salaries of managers and payments to supervisors. The second measure proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly through the Public Finance Act and through the Guarantee Scheme Act has touched on payments or management awards in banks receiving any form of State aid in mitigating the financial crisis. Also in this segment, all banks in Slovenia are practically involved in the instruments adopted by the National Assembly in these laws, and in this way they are also committed to respect for such restrictions. The restrictions, however, relate, of course, to state banks. And the third issue already accepted by the Government is the limitation of the awards of managers in insolvency proceedings and forcible settlement. We believe that the law before you is an important complement to all these limitations on the remuneration of managers and supervisors, which is why the Government supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, good afternoon, colleague and colleague, good afternoon, Secretary of State, Mrs Helena Kamnar. The Group of Social Democrats will, of course, also support this law in the third reading, mainly because it at least partially replaces the criminal change in income taxation above a certain limit, far from the average wage in Slovenia, which took place in the previous term, when the number of tax classes in income was reduced to three. In the meantime, we have managed to be so human that to those people who do not reach a certain income, we have introduced a general relief, to all in general, and then a differentiated relief for those who are below that limit. Now, of course, it would be reasonable to tax with a higher tax class all those who far exceed the average Slovenian salary, but such will in our country is not, as everything seems to be. Although the public opinion is explicitly inclined to reintroduce the additional two tax classes in the taxation of income, although - if we want to completely abolish income incomes that are lower or equal to the minimum wage - it is essential to increase income on the other side of the scale, we have only remained on what Comrade Trofenik has proposed. This is to tax in particular the excessive income of members of management and supervisory authorities at a time when the financial and economic crisis is still or will continue. I have to say that I was sad - and now I will say my own opinion - and I am disappointed when I heard comments on the account of the introduction of the additional two tax classes, which we are here in the National Assembly, otherwise only in the circle of coalition parties, we have been very much aligned, but then there was no will to do so. I would like to say here that it certainly has not been a negative response within the National Assembly and that, despite the fact that all Members would fall into the first additional, at least in the first additional income class, because we are well aware that if we want to make life easier for the weakest with the lowest income, we will have to give up those who have higher incomes, including what. But there was no such desire at the moment. I hope that this will happen and, of course, I also wish that, apart from our parliamentary group and the coalition, this proposed law will be supported by all Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and everyone else. The proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of management and supervisory authorities during the financial and economic crisis, which is proposed by Mr Villa Trophynik, will be supported by the SDS Group, because we believe that it will help solve the problem of excessive and excellent remuneration of the management that we are witnessing, especially during the financial and economic crisis. Although the bill will only partially help to ensure that bad managers do not pay excessively, many times even morally challenged rewards. Especially in the event of a business failure. The bill provides for the amounts to be paid to the taxpayers on their incomes to be subject to an additional 49% tax. The taxable person will be a natural person who manages or supervises the business and who receives guarantees or guarantees from the State or means to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, irrespective of the share of the State in it. The proposaler in the SDS Group differs only in terms of the extent to which an individual will become liable for an additional tax, so we have tabled an amendment to Article 5 proposing that all the benefits from the employment relationship achieved by the debtors under this Act, which exceed the salary paid by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should be further taxed. This seems kind of logical to us, because the Prime Minister's salary should be some criteria that represent the top prizes or benefits for all those working in the public interest, as well as an appropriate criterion for additional taxation under this law. The tax base under this law would therefore be the difference between the amount of the Prime Minister's salary and the amount paid. For those who have multiple types of payments, the tax base will include the sum of all surpluses reduced by paid social security contributions. In our parliamentary group, we are also of the opinion that this law would also apply to bankruptcy managers or managers in insolvency and forced settlement proceedings, as well as to members of the board of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, d.d., Ljubljana. Leaders running the SID bank and bankruptcy managers receive unreasonablely high remuneration, which is not proportionate to the results and are therefore many times unethical, such as receipts to the bankruptcyer in Vidm, IUV Vrhnika and Elan. The new regulation, which entered into force on 11 July this year, limits the prizes to a maximum of €80,000, however. The proposal for a law provides for retroactive validity, so to speak, since 1. 1. 2009 and will not cover a longer period, which would certainly be constitutionally controversial. However, our proposal is, and in this direction, we have also tabled an amendment to make the law permanent and not only by the end of 2010 or by the end of the period for State guarantees or other anti-crisis measures. The bill represents a step forward towards limiting payments of income and management awards that run or supervise businesses receiving any assistance from a country to mitigate the crisis and which are particularly unethical in the event of a failure to operate. In the SDS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thanks again for saying that. In the Group of Members, we will indeed present a law, as in the second reading, we will support it. At the same time, I wish to say that we cannot support the proposed two amendments, although we understand the reasons, but the amendments go beyond the scope of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. The basic question raised by this law is why this marriage must be of a short-term nature. To this day, why was there no prosecution under official responsibility for those who were unjustifiably filling their pockets? Why isn't there a limited salary for directors in state-owned companies to pay, say, a prime minister or a minister? Why is there no marriage ban on paying the prize if there is no success in the company? The main dilemma is why there is no control in the performance supervisors, and this is not the case. And why do these overseers not respond with personal belongings, for the law is now basically so that they should persecute overseers according to personal responsibility, for they also vouch for their personal belongings. I don't know any cases that would suggest that any of the members of the Governing Council have responded with personal property for bad decisions. Additional taxation should be introduced for supervisory authorities and managers and managers before. And I think it's kind of too late, especially if we look at pay cases. Do you have any idea how much 12,000 euros is a month? We are talking about the case of the EUR 25 000 annual Work Performance Award; these awards are even higher. We're talking 75,000 euros a year! And we are talking about ratings that exceed EUR 25 000; that is what we will tax. Workers work for EUR 400, but they work full-time during the month, and they usually don't get those salaries. In this law, we miss the conditions that would also determine the salaries of those directors who are actually in charge of managing a source in state companies. This restriction has not been made, although Mr Lahovnik has promised to regulate it in some way, but this has not happened. We only have recommendations and requests and let us follow some example of what Mr Pahor said before Christmas: "I will make sure that too much money is returned, but it was not. Why don't we follow the case of the United States of America when President Obama actually intervened in the mess that is also happening with us, that is, state aid was divided in the form of prizes and that is what our companies are doing. The country gives aid, financially from the budget, to the company, and the manager later pays the prize due to temporary, of course, solvency. But this is of no interest to our authorities, even a legal and legitimate act for them. I myself miss a more restrictive policy in this area, and especially because we do not have the hearing to revitalize the economy qualitatively, because the practice seen in the previous bill submitted by the Slovenian People's Party or Mr Radovan Žerjav was a very late act. Of course, I welcome the proposaler, Mr Trofenik, and also in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal for a law, but I do not think that this is the solution for the Slovenian economy and that we should, even in the department of the interior ministry, cut through any other measure. In view of the official duty, there should also be some prosecution, especially for those who manipulate public finances and illegally transform them into their personal accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. At a time when the global financial and economic crisis has taken over Slovenia and when the State grants guarantees or guarantees, as well as concrete funds, to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, it is appropriate to regulate the remuneration of the members of the management board and the supervisory boards of the undertakings involved. We therefore support the complementary proposal for a law that imposes taxes on members of the administration and the supervisory boards in an inappropriate manner on any surplus by law of certain heights. In fact, this law regulates the issue of management ethics, it deals with the issue of individual cases, which, in our opinion, is also important because it is a symbolic signal to Slovenian society, its citizens and citizens. This is a necessary law, but it is not a solution that would in any way help solve the present crisis or solve the legal problems of Slovenia and the Slovenian transition. As it is said, it is a symbolic signal to Slovenian society, since the adoption of this law, most workers and workers of Gorenje, Mure, IUV, LTH and so on will unfortunately have nothing. Let me repeat, at this meeting of the National Assembly, we do not accept any anti-crisis law. Governmental. Logically, then, we would have concluded that we had done everything we needed to do and evidently did not. The latest sad developments show that I do not know how many measures the Government has been praising have had no effect. At least it's not big enough to prevent the situation we're witnessing today. I'm sorry. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. However, we want the Government and coalition parties with such zeal and commitment to tackle the crisis, which is obviously still and increasingly present in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. A nice hello again. I am pleased that this law will have one broad, broad consensus in this National Assembly today, and I also agree with the speakers that, of course, it is one of the drops in that vessel in which we are looking for real and concrete solutions. Surely some of this law will have the tax office and our budget, and I am sure that those in the economy who live the most in these times will accept it positively. Above all, to strengthen this society's awareness that the burden of the crisis must be shared, we must bear everyone in order to be better tomorrow. We have once supported this marriage and, of course, we will do so today. However, we also have some concerns and dilemmas that are opening up and for which we also want clear answers. We have also pointed out that effective monitoring is also needed for the effective implementation of the law, as we do not want to see the evasiveness of the law in a variety of very innovative ways. The creation of the law is certainly linked to the joint condemnation of overpayments to a management which in these difficult times does not see the burden sharing of the crisis along with other parts of society. In studying support for this law, we have followed the objective that the burden of the economic crisis and the social crisis must be evenly distributed among society. That means everything has to be taken care of. In particular, for those who earn unacceptable incomes each month, with which it is not possible to survive solidly and normally. Of course, we also draw attention to the abnormal income of management. On the other hand, we are aware that leaders must be responsible and properly rewarded. Data on some payments are simply such that one cannot believe the numbers and words and actions that follow them. The additional taxation provided for by the law relates to undertakings which have received a guarantee or guarantee from the State or other financial-economic anti-crisis measures. In this way, on the appropriate legal basis, it will be possible to prevent the occurrence of companies from obtaining State aid either in the form of a guarantee or other forms of State aid and the way in which the company is awarded will remain at an inappropriately high level. This is what we want to prevent and achieve. Nevertheless, we must be aware that, especially in times of crisis in the leading cities, we need the most responsible, most capable people, whom I also need to reward appropriately. On the other hand, it is even more important that we also ensure that employees in companies are paid fairly for their work. That the law will truly live in practice, in order to achieve the desired, necessary, targeted effects and that the management will not seek out the sidelines. It is particularly important, however, that the competent ministries and services ensure that they respond to the following dilemmas that we are putting forward. First. Will we really be able to get the right, best experts, managers to run the most important companies? This is what Slovenia wants and needs. Another time. Will we not again witness the playing of supervisory authorities? We have already witnessed many times in Slovenia that the competent authorities play in one way or another. However, if we see before our eyes the story that these measures taken by the State took place in Gorenje, whether we do have a guarantee and all the evidence that the goal for which we have all tried in Parliament has indeed been fully achieved, or whether we are afraid that the managers will always be two, three steps ahead of the overseers. And thirdly, a questionable approach to the issue is that the law was written primarily and rightly written on the basis of one person who received an incredible, abnormally high payment. Such legal treatment may seriously distort the foundations of the rule of law, where laws are created on the basis of individual acts or certain individuals in society, but we are aware that we are witnessing specific times and specific events [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, we support and our vote today will be intended to prevent such extraordinary abnormal events and to bear the burden of the crisis justly by all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me first of all point out that, because of an administrative error, it is likely that the DeSUS Group did not get the floor to present its views, of course I also used the debate to do so. And so in the introduction, I say that the DeSUS Group, as in the past in this process, also today supports this law as proposed and that, as in the past, there are still a number of concerns or even we think that such laws should not come into being at all and that this is some kind of intervention law that is trying to fix something backwards that is trying to punish what has been bad and has, in my opinion, not enough effects that would prevent anything like this from happening yet. In fact, this law is a more pedagogical law, as we would call it, a financial impact, what the introduction says is that it should be understood as a counter-crisis measure, rather than one of the measures to make it easier to cope with the crisis, these effects are not seen much. Nor does any number say that something important could be done about it. The next thought, or next question, that we are asked is how professional support has diminished. At least what I read could be assessed more than a requirement for serious thought, a requirement not to make any mistakes that we didn't want to make. And these experts have pointed out some weaknesses, that in fact the real effects of this law will not be. If we had the right students, if we were expecting the right effects, it probably wouldn't be possible, or we could eliminate Pahor's demands on how to solve the budget and crisis, freeze the pension revenues, monthly. So nothing, there is no special connection in this regard, and this effect, which is supposed to help overcome crisis situations better, has waned here. In fact, it is more about promoting a culture that we want to promote, more so that it is made clear to some of the ways of capitalism that we have established with us to a large extent and that we are not going to shake off so quickly now, and, if I have just understood the Nobel laureate Krugman, it also speaks of the fact that everything that we are now doing not only in the world but also in our midst of us, nothing has made any sense to those who have actually prepared what we are talking about today. I would also like to mention that it is actually more of a political, moral, ethical effect and that it is something other than what is written in the introduction itself. It says that this is the solidarity contribution of those who have large salaries to work problems. I wouldn't hope to confirm anything like that. This is not a special contribution, and if this was already a solidarity contribution, then I would wonder how this solidarity contribution, those who have, have high profits, can be traced only to public services or to those that the State may decide on, but not to other similar or even higher benefits or beneficiaries of these benefits. The next disturbing thing is that in this law, good and bad directors, good and bad managers, which I don't mean to make mistakes, put things on hold, because it would be hard to agree that bad managers are all those who had to receive state aid. Many of them are likely to be doing well and without them the situation would be significantly worse, and just because they are in some very difficult situation does not confirm the issue that they are bad directors or that the good directors who ride a wave of conjuncture are monopolistic situations for any other objective reasons for which they themselves are not worthy of anything. But to the amendments, I'd like to say the following. Although I am not an amendment, this Presidential one, so to speak, I did not support it before and I do not support it today. Firstly, I would like to point out once again that there is no policy mix between managers in the economy. Secondly, I would like to point out that the prime ministers are assessed very differently. About half consider them good, half consider them bad, depending on whether we are talking about coalition or opposition. And thirdly, yes of course those who run our economy [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, I agree with the interlocutors who say that the Republic of Slovenia does not have anti-crisis measures. We have mitigating measures, as I said before, and you're welcome. I'm not gonna say no. We also have a very hesitant government in these phenomena. Of course, I would like to ask from this city what government representative, which unfortunately is not, what we did in the case of Kramar, when it was to pay back one million rewards. This has also created this law, in a very mild form, this is a very mild form that we have here today, but better than nothing, because I believe that some who do not have bread expect us to accept at least something positive and just in this National Assembly, for those who steal and spend in private pockets the money that is theirs. So Mr Borut Pahor should say what he got after that call he made to Mr Kramar to consider whether he would return the money or not as an answer. That would, I would very much like to see what Mr Prime Minister has received in answer. There are other examples that show that we are very inconsiderate in this mess, which ministers are also doing. We have a minister who violates principle and legality, this is Mr Golobic. This was clearly demonstrated in the past, and he did not give up. The Prime Minister told him again or told us that he would give him time to think. And he gave him time, Mr Golobič thought it over and, of course, he didn't give up morally. We've got a government that doesn't respect a decision she's taken. Let us recall the dispute between Minister Irma and Kresalova when the matter came on the air and the President somehow interrupted the session: "Irma, Irma, please..." in short, there are no fewer people there, even though we know that they are too numerous and the government does not respect its own decision. While we have directors of state-owned enterprises, I can list them - from the railway ahead, Darsa, the banks, all public institutions, various doctors and others in the electricity industry, and so on, showing that they are making a fool out of government because they do not take into account what Mr Lahovnik has kindly asked them not to make such a mess of paying personal income. And yet all incomes in all these companies are higher than that received by the Prime Minister himself or any minister. And these are state-owned companies. I understand why we cannot bring regulation and order here, because these state-owned companies are giving money to customers. Certainly not ours, but all the parties probably got something out of these government portfolios for their elections. And why, of course, is there no prosecution for such indiscretions? Because there must be false solidarity. The circle is concluded, if we sum it up, there can't be order here because there's bribery in between. And finally, let's put an account out for whoever's making it. In this country, no one bothers that with the state support given by the State to the company to pay the prize, no one in this country is bothered to receive a successful award if there was no success in the company. In this country, there is no problem with supervisors adopting incomprehensible decisions, resulting in the collapse of the company. I can tell you an example, in Droga Kolinski and some other company, no one has responded with personal property, and no one bothers if managers pay their own rewards. In Dars, the last case, when the government merely changed the director, found later that the Director had been entered into an individual contract that he had the same rights, of course, even after the award had been paid when his mandate ended. Otherwise, it was somehow corrected by an agreement, but how can we even conclude such contracts? And in all of this we can find that we have a very unfair government and that Mr Pahor is very indecisive in this matter. It's an economic crime, it's a state crime. In fact, it also pushes public finances, and if we think that this is actually all the fact that I have stated, then I can find that Mr Pahor has just replaced the chacolina for "kornflex". Why is there no determination? Why isn't it actually his upright posture? That's what he promised here, in the National Assembly, and he signed a solemn release for it. By what time will we allow such insecurities to take place? I would expect all salaries to be immediately equivalent to those of the Minister or Member of State and to be abolished immediately at this time of crisis, including this should be a component of this law, payment of any other ratings - from the car to the service card, to the huge amounts paid for the representation and so on and so on. The government can do this at one of the meetings that it can call on the telephone, and it doesn't want to do that because it's going to get into trouble. Of course, the evidence will appear and another unpleasant truth can be learned. That's the reason. And, Mr Willy Rezman, we will accept this, of course we will, but this is a patch on a large wound that will not stop the bleeding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u81	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Tinker Bell. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miro Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. There seems to be no interest in this debate. I think the purpose of this law is good, and of course it shows support. The proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of management and supervisory authorities during the financial economic crisis is, of course, the result of some situation in this society, when the only religion became money, profit and when people were in some way clouded by greed, money, material goods, weekends, cars and yachts. At times, it is already the defiant arrogance of this Slovenian economic elite, which has come to this property in some strange circumstances in transition times and also with the support of this policy, which has adopted such legislation or law enforcement authorities that have simply not reacted to it. In a way, politics allowed this to happen and eagerly waited for a piece of mush from this rich man’s table to fall into their pocket. When I wrote years ago about the ownership of companies in Koroška, I was punished twice about the ownership of companies in the large system of Prevent Slovenj Gradec. For the first time, they tried to kill me, but when I survived by accident, I was convicted of writing. And it's for writing, for real writing, for writing with evidence. I was sentenced on behalf of the people to a fine of 3,000 euros, which I had to settle with Dinner, otherwise the matter is still going on in the Constitutional Court, because the Slovenian judiciary felt that this Jari gentlemen could not simply be written about. The truth cannot be written, even because the truth is unpleasant to gentlemen. Today, for example, this company Prevent just before bankruptcy and bankruptcy brought them to the very greed of these owners, who came to this property just like that, in some strange circumstances, half-free. Incompetence and, of course, some modest intellectual potential have led to this point where these people can no longer control this seized property. And it can happen that in a short time in Koroška, in Slovenj Gradc, there will be several thousand people on the road, just like today with Mura. What's interesting about this is that these Korean tycoons are walking around the government today asking for help. It is true that it is far from ethics and must be that someone in companies that are predominantly state owned or owned by companies for which the State has made a guarantee to mitigate the financial crisis is paid some enormous wages, enormous rewards, while keeping workers to minimums and sending them to the brink of survival. On the other hand, this law will also strike at those who do what is right, and they can be rewarded with honesty and good results. This law will punish them, but that's the part we call collateral damage. Unfortunately, there's still some social climate in our country when the guy who has a lot, no matter how he gets it. In the spirit of a socialist rhetoric, we like to say to these people, "Oh, he just found himself." Remember that famous syntagma from the old Yugoslavia, "Take it easy," said Tito. But thank God, that changes slowly. People go on roads. We see what's going on in Mura, what's going on in Gorenje. These workers simply have enough impotent unionists and predatory directors. In spite of some concerns, I will support this law of Trophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Vito Rozej. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I myself believe that the bill under consideration is well-intentioned, in terms of limiting abnormally high remuneration. I am personally against administrative restrictions; I am the advocate for everyone to get a good salary for a good job. However, in these times of crisis, in which, as I have already mentioned in my position, these abnormally high payments are also unethical and immoral. As far as the amendments are concerned, in our view, the Slovenian Democratic Party would be the most appropriate payment of the prime minister for this border over which these benefits are taxed. Because, like I said, he's a prime minister, but he's some kind of person. Perhaps it is questionable who will contribute more, or the manager in an economic entity or the President of the Government. However, in our view, if this is a restriction, it is more appropriate to pay the Prime Minister, because I see no reason why this limit would be, say, precisely for the amounts proposed, regardless of the amount proposed by the Association of Managers; it would be interesting to hear on what basis these amounts were fixed. I understand that people have different criteria, but if this law is also part of the government's anti-crisis measures, then, as I said, it seems more appropriate for me to pay this to the Prime Minister and not the amount proposed. However, as far as the law is concerned, it is also appropriate for this law to enter into force immediately and without a deadline. We do not know when this crisis will be over, whether it will be 2010 or 2011, perhaps later. After all, when circumstances are different when the environment is different, the time may also rise, the law may change or end at any time, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan. She's not here. I give the floor to Mr Villa Trofenik as a proposalr. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank you for your express support for the law. Of course, different aspects and differing views have been shared in the debate, with some of them less agreeable, but I would like to draw attention to some of the concerns expressed here. The first is whether or not the law belongs in the anti-crisis package. Depends on how we understand anti-crisis measures and the situation. In any case, this is the extraordinary award of the management of the escort or predecessor or otherwise related to the financial economic crisis, and in this sense it is a counter-crisis measure, not only to try to remedy something backwards, but also to prevent these extraordinary things from continuing. Many times the name was mentioned and the law was written for a specific case. Of course, I must make this clear that this is not true. A specific case may have been the cause, but that is not the aim, since then we would have come to the field of unconstitutionality. I will illustrate, however, that the financial effects of this law are significant and cannot be ignored from this point of view. In the Slovenian area in the area of awarding managers €19,000 gross is not such a small amount. And at this amount, 19,000 euros will be due to this law, if adopted, at the monthly level of 2,442 euro of additional tax, or at the annual level of 29,306. This is just a rough illustration because we may not imagine what the provisions of this law mean in a concrete calculation. How wide is the law going? While there is a problem in obtaining the necessary information, it is nevertheless a fact that 990 legal entities falling under the provisions of this law are in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We can't understand here that 990 is going to pay for it, but they're going down. Then there are 1,000 legal entities that fall under the provisions of this law under the SID of the Bank. If we add to this, unfortunately, the data are not sufficiently transparent, the Ministry of the Economy, and some other ministry, what we are about to get into about 3,000 cases or legal entities falling under the provisions, of course, we will see how much money there will be. In any case, it will not be negligible and this component is important. In the debate, colleague Willi Rezman stressed some kind of educational component, or if you want a moral ethical component, it is not possible to deny it, but there are others. However, I would like to draw attention to some kind of fear or comment that there has been a lack of professional support. Yes, of course, there were a whole bunch of lobbyists at work by the affected, so there was something, excuse the expression, intimidation also with possible constitutional dispute. I must here publicly thank Prof. Dr. Bulgarian, who has helped, in this regard also to remove any provisions which could be constitutionally disputed. I wouldn't explain any more at this point because I've pointed that out many times. However, these comments were, in particular, from the point of view of Article 155, when experts or laymen read only the first paragraph and forgot the second paragraph of this Article of the Constitution and forgot about the public interest, something similar was happening with the very superficial reading of Article 33 of the Constitution and the emphasis on the so-called rights acquired, but this is not about any rights acquired. These are unjustifiable prizes that burden public funds. I must point out that the basic criterion here is the recipient of state aid. It is true that, basically, we have come up with a slightly different concept of the law and that there may be some kind of discrepancy between the introduction and the explanation and now the text that we have and will be the subject of a final decision, because we have somehow narrowed it down because of the fear of not going to the field of unconstitutionality. There will be another concrete word that can be said in the amendments, but it must also be understood that we are going relatively narrowly to legal entities, or to the awards of management bodies, those legal entities that receive state aid. This does not mean that we would not agree that some other areas are open and call for appropriate solutions. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 5, the amendment to Article 5, the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you. I apologize for the relatively late application. I would only briefly say what I said in the introduction that, in view of the criteria laid down in the law, it would be difficult for the recipients of State aid to follow the amendment to Article 5, which limits, in a very simplified manner, the remuneration of the remuneration of the management, the company, at the level of the salary of the President of the Government. It's hard to follow this, because you could get arguments against the law or the accusation that we're looking for some sort of flattening device. It is only necessary to distinguish between the economy and politics or bureaucracy. The level of the Prime Minister's salary as the highest bureaucrat in the country may be the basis for such or different postponements in the public sector, namely the salaries of the management, the institutions or public enterprises. This is indisputable, where it is possible to discuss this relationship between the salaries of the President of the Government and the management of these institutions. The wider the economy, however, I think this would be unacceptable and, of course, the question may also be asked if we have an appropriate height in the public sector in the field of peaks, if I say so. While I understand the proposaler, as he said, well-intentioned, but as a bill-maker, I cannot agree with the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I might only point out that, or the proposaler may correct me that this law is not a restriction on the level of the Prime Minister's salary, but from this point of view, he can, now I will caricaturely say, also, I don't know, 50,000 euros in salary, but from the point of view, from this premium, he will be taxed with this additional tax. So I don't know, maybe in that sense maybe. Because it was understood that this was a restriction, and I also said that I was against restrictions in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u91	Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. There's no fear that you wouldn't understand. Yes, the bill has a threshold of 12,500 euros. The wages above are charged by this tax or additional tax rate, which is added to the amount of 49%. This would, in practice, if we translated, as we probably know, all of us who are here because the Prime Minister's salary is about half of this limit amount, this would mean a substantial tax additional definition. Of course, I'm stressing again. The numbers or parameters or limit values listed in Article 5 of the Act have been deliberately summarised according to the standards or criteria set by the Slovenian Economic Awards Managers Association, before the economic financial crisis, which has some logic and with which we wanted to avoid any perception that we would like to introduce a balance sheet. However, I also agree with you that in normal matters, of course, I myself am not a proponent of any administrative constraints, but the question is whether in Slovenia, as my colleague Petek said earlier, is really such a high culture that we know how to limit ourselves and whether there is already some kind of fetishisation of this responsibility and I do not know everything about the economy. On this occasion, I also reject the observation that the law divides into bad and good. The law does not introduce any criteria for bad and good managers, but introduces criteria for some types of normal remuneration and those in companies that are needed or are not needed for state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u93	Havela beautiful. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 5. I am putting to the debate an amendment to Article 13, equal to the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u94	No desire for unnecessary debates. The amendment, as already stated by the proposer, in the SDS Group would also want this law to apply mutatis mutandis to managers in insolvency and forced liquidation proceedings and to members of the board of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. I admit that there may be a problem in these two fields, but we have two other instruments for that. The awards of these managers or coerced managers, as I have used to them, are the responsibility of someone else, fall within another area and do not meet the basic criterion of the recipient of the State aid. That's a substantive problem. Now, as far as Sid Bank is concerned, the State Secretary has indicated by which act the Government has limited revenue or rewards, if you like, in banks that are mainly owned or owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This is the first problem with this amendment, but there are others, because the amendment is so written that the whole article is amended that it only covers the two points mentioned in the amendment. This means that certain provisions of the proposed Article and also the one to which I specifically point out that it prevents, i.e. point 4, speculation to reserve or prolong payments to avoid payment of the tax for the period following the expiry of the law. On the other hand, the amendment implicitly brings or removes the act in some way the avreolo of the intervention law applicable for a certain period. Basically, this is an intervention law, and thus it would be impossible for him to agree to change this meaning or its meaning by such a provision. I personally support these two open areas being adequately addressed by special law or other instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a decision on the amendment of the decision on the level of funds belonging to the individual political party from the State budget. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Anton Kolaric, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u96	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues! At its 8th meeting, on 9 September, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the allocation of funds for the co-financing of political parties in the last 4 months of 2009, submitted by the Government to the Assembly. On this basis, the Committee has drawn up a proposal for a decision that you have reached at this point and is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt it. At its meeting on 21 November 2008, the National Assembly adopted a decision on the amount of the funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2009 in accordance with Article 4(3) of the Political Parties Act. By this Decision, the National Assembly has determined the amount of the funds belonging to each party for this year in view of their success in the 2008 elections. On the basis of the 2009 budget rebalancing adopted, however, the budget line has decreased and for the last four months it is necessary to harmonise the committee, as I said, at a meeting on 9 September of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, I note that no one who has been reported to give the opinion of the Group of Members is in the Chamber, nor have I been informed before that anyone has replaced anyone. Please, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u99	I'm sorry. I didn't write it. It wasn't reported. We need to stay in line. And it's true what I said. There's no sign-offs in the hall. This has ended with the failure to present the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled on the proposal for a decision, so we will take a decision on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE DRAFT DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE DECISION ON THE ESTABLISHMENT AND OBJECTIVES OF THE WORKING BODYS OF THE STATE CONGREGATION. The draft law was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. He's not here. Mr. Anderlich checked out earlier. We are done with this, with the presentation or the non-representation of parliamentary groups. The debate between Members and Members on the motion for a decree is open. Mr Franz Pukšič was reported to the floor. [[He's not here.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the motion for a decree today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. INVESTIGATION INVESTIGATION PROCESS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF THE PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION INVESTIGATION, PURSUANT TO THE POLITICAL RESPONSES OF THE CARRIAGE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONS COOPERATED IN THE PREPARATION AND PROCUREMENT OF INVESTMENTS AND LYS IN THE AREA OF PROJECTS OF HOUSE BUILDINGS AND BUILDING INSTRUMENTS AND APPROACH GRANTING OBJECTIVESOn the basis of the suspicion that the procedures and transactions between each other have been negotiated, conducted in a non-comparative and non-conformal manner, and due to the suspicion of the presence of clientalism, corruption and inter-agency relations between the various operators of activity and the suspicion of the activities of connected persons involved in the preparation, public procurement and execution of building works, and in this regard, in particular for the determination of the suspicion of the political liability of the holders of public functions and their role in this regard. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 36 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, for an additional explanation. Here you go, please. You probably won't read the title of this point again, because I've never read such a long sentence in my life.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u100	I'll cut it short. Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the SDS Group, we have made a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders, in particular in the implementation of investments related to housing, the purchase of housing and construction investment projects of public interest, in particular so-called high buildings, in public health facilities. In this case, the project of the Paediatric Clinic, the project of the Oncology Institute and others. The parliamentary investigation should respond and clarify whether there are links and related transactions in various investment projects between actors who, through the help of public function holders, are politically exploiting their influence to achieve the benefit of public procurement. We would or would like to suggest that the investigation will mainly cover the following projects of major construction investments: First time. Projects of housing construction, leasing, rental and other comparable transactions and purchases of residential buildings and related garages or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Another time. Project to rebuild and upgrade the premises of the University of Primorska. Third time. Project of housing construction of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourth time. The Pediatric Clinic Project. Fifth. The Oncology Institute project. Six. Projects of construction investments in so-called high-value buildings, state-of-the-state projects and public-use projects funded from the state budget or the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality since 1992 onwards. Why did we decide that the investigation would contain all these projects? Public procurement is an important part of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the latest available data from the Ministry of Finance’s website, public procurement accounted for 41.7% of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and 10.5% of the gross social product in 2006. Large construction investments in the area of so-called high construction, such as residential buildings built with public money and social infrastructure facilities, health, higher education and other public and cultural infrastructure facilities, are investment projects, as a rule, of high budgetary investment value. The financial and economic crisis has halted the real estate market, with housing congestion, and housing prices on the real estate market are expected to fall due to a large number of unsold dwellings. The statement by the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, Zoran Jankovic, at his press conference said that the price per square metre of dwelling in the newly built municipality of Ljubljana will fall below EUR 2 000 by the end of the year and advised everyone to wait until the end of the year for the purchase of the balance sheet. It is still worth recalling the Mayor of Ljubljana's announcement three years ago that housing prices will fall below EUR 2 000. However, his actions are quite different from his predictions and recommendations. So the Municipality of Ljubljana is the end of 2008 from Vegrada d.d. For €18.9 million, it bought 119 non-profit dwellings of a total area of 7,515 square metres. 238 parking spaces were also included in this purchase, amounting to €18,000 for each. Taking into account the parking place concerned, the price of the square metre of the apartments purchased amounted to EUR 2515, which was well above EUR 2000 or above the amount set by the mayor of the municipality as one of the important strategic objectives of his mandate. The distribution of purchases to apartments and parking places was only a manoeuvre that wanted to make the purchase of Ljubljana City Municipality a convenient place, although the prices of apartments had already fallen considerably and a drastic reduction in the future is expected. The question is why the Municipality of Ljubljana decided to buy Vegrad’s apartments in an early manner with their parking spaces if the price of the apartments was expected to fall. There is also suspicion of the payment of the University of Primorska. In fact, the former government did not pay Macro 5 for the renovation of the Armeria Palace, Foresteria mainly because the image was inconsistent with the Ministry and the value of the works for these palaces was unauthorizedly doubled. With the appointment of Higher Education Minister Gregor Golobič, this debt was repaid. In addition, the fact that Macro 5 is also a company that is building a house for Higher Education Minister Gregor Golobic in Vinjolah, Portorož. When it comes to the construction of large investment facilities, we are concerned that the funds have been spent inconveniently and imprudently, especially because the investments from planning to execution or to the final conclusion are substantially increasing, even doubling. And since it is public money, it is right for taxpayers whose money it is to know whether these investments have been made in accordance with all principles and whether the principles of public finances management have been respected and respected, i.e. the principle of economy and the principle of transparency and the principle of competitiveness, the principle of the public and the principle of control. In the previous term, we have also repeatedly engaged in investments in health facilities, notably the construction of the Paediatric Clinic and the Oncology Institute. Here, too, the funds earmarked for investment from originally planned to completion have substantially increased, additional annexes have been concluded, and there is reasonable suspicion that this is a covert but coordinated political operation of individual public function holders and for covert interference in the chain of contracting entities - designer - contractor - control, resulting in non-economic spending of taxpayers' money, corruption, tied business, clientism and unjustifiable benefits. This is also reflected in the fact that some of these cases have already been dealt with by the so-called anti-corruption commission. It is also characterised by the unsuspecting and unsuspecting conduct of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in the conclusion of contracts and agreements, the unsuspecting financial transactions, the excessive reliance on one bank, the unsuspecting provision of services, the conclusion of harmful contracts, the failure to manage operating costs and the inadequate management of financial assets and the indebtedness of the fund. In this context, attention should also be paid to the insufficient and inadequate exercise of control over the quality of the construction of residential buildings and related garages or surfaces. It was also noted in 2006 that the Ministry of the Environment and the Office of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia had an internal audit of 14 years ago, during the term of office of the former Director of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, Edward Ovna, former Vice-President of the LDS. In that report, the internal audit found 9.5 million euros or the former 2.3 billion tolars of non-economic and harmful behaviour. Therefore, in all these cases, there is more than justifiable suspicion that the basic principles, i.e. the principle of economy, transparency, competitiveness, the public and supervision, have not already been respected. Therefore, the parliamentary investigation must determine in this light whether the holders of public functions acted in accordance with the rules, since there is a presumption that, despite the legislative framework established in this area, there is a systematic and chronic non-compliance or abuse of rules that have led to significant deviations in the economic and transparent consumption of tax assets. The position of the National Assembly means that the National Assembly is also the one who should be informed of this, i.e. whether due diligence and credibility has been reported to the National Assembly in accordance with the legal competences on the basis of which the National Assembly could create an adequate picture of the actual situation in the field of the use of budgetary money in the construction of these large investment facilities and, on this basis, take appropriate decisions in accordance with its competences. The investigation must establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that public function holders have acted contrary to the legislation and thus to achieve their benefits or the benefits of others involved in the project implementation process. As it is said, despite all the legislation governing this area, the investment values in the construction of many of the facilities that this investigation wants to cover have greatly exceeded its initial value in completing, which may be a major problem and since it is public money, it is right to know how this money has been spent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The Slovenian national party shall be co-signatory of the request for this parliamentary inquiry. I think it's been going on too long, and too much shit has been happening from day to day, both in the media and in personal contact with people who have been involved in the construction of many objects in one way or another. What if we just go down to the question of building a pediatric clinic? Such a shame, such as the construction of the Paediatric Clinic, cannot be thought of by anyone in the EU, only in Slovenia, in which those of former times still dominate, from the former regimes, and they all lead in the same way. Only here can it happen that there are embezzlements, frauds, money has to be paid more and more, there is never a limit to the use of resources, and at the end when we draw the line under the complex project, we see that the water 'numbers', the door 'counts', in short nothing 'numbers'. Scary and actually slapping all taxpayers, because eventually our children will be treated at the Pediatric Clinic. And if we don't provide our children with a peaceful and beautiful life and health, who will we be? Maybe for Croats, because now Slovenia is in the arms of Croatia and perhaps in time we will not write in Slovenian anymore, but we will write in Croatian. It just can't be. If we're looking at other buildings. Look at the Oncology Institute. Cancer patients aren't just like that, they need extraordinary help, they need extraordinary support, and then when they get a wheelchair to the door, they can't get through the door to their room. Why not? Because some stupid architect who doesn't understand anything except the inflatability of his own profession didn't know that this modern chair was wide enough than the one that was in use 40 or 50 years ago. Misunderstanding, or deliberate misunderstanding, in order for one matter to be corrected and to earn additional money on such corrections, is the reason for such a mess that happens. Of course, without the political boors, this matter could not have gone. Here, too, one matter must be separated: with this parliamentary inquiry we do not intend to destroy Slovenian constructionists. Slovenian construction companies must remain if we want to do anything else in Slovenia. If anyone thinks the purpose of the investigation is to make room for a foreigner just by destroying our companies, they're wrong. Perhaps that would be the purpose of this investigation if it were initiated by another party, not by our side, but by us, it is up to us to remain Slovenian companies and that Slovenian companies are working. So we will look very selectively at what was happening and what was happening. It must be said, however, that political connections are mainly more on the left-hand side than anywhere else, if we say so, in a political language, and so is fear of it. Once again, it won't be a witch hunt, not at all. Slovenian construction companies must remain. But it is true that there will be a need for cleaning. It will be necessary to bring some Ljubljanica through this shed of Auggie to be cleaned and to carry what is usually swimming on the water at the time of the flood. This is necessary, and therefore this investigation is so much more necessary and so much more justified. Of course, we are aware that various gentlemen will be running from door to door, looking for the political support they once had and that the current power still offers them to some extent. It should be borne in mind that in these circles there is also a leap from one camp to another camp. To seek political support regardless of their own convictions and to do so in the light of the financial burden or financial gain that a person may have in this area. The political responsibility of the holders of public functions is certainly in the first place. It is necessary to draw gentlemen who made these mistakes, which allowed these mistakes, which allowed for annexation, annexation, repairs, changes and all. These changes in contracts are those that have brought some the most money. And as it was heard, this money that came into the pockets of certain companies was also divided by political preferences or by credit for a matter that was then carried out, continued, rebuilt, or repaired. There's no case in the world of what's going on with us, like, at the Oncology Institute, or other hospitals, that infected tap water runs like it's in Afghanistan. I think some people are taking Slovenia for some kind of Afghanistan, so they are willing to sell Slovenia. And they sell it, very successfully. Because this agreement by Pahor-Kosor is already a step in this direction. Step into the fact that everything is going to happen to someone else, it's going to take everything and then it's going to be what it's going to be. It will be for us, some say. And I wonder if it will be for our children. Will it be for their children? Will it be for ours, or will it be for yours? I don't think so. And if you don't realize it, then it's useless for you to sit in here. Some people don't care if foreigners of Slovenian forests are cutting around the Market because they were involved in getting those forests into their hands so that they can steal them, which no one has been able to do until today, but of course the gentlemen have arranged for them this thing. I would ask myself whether we will now open an investigation in the next term and call that gentleman to account if he has done something wrong, because despite the fact that we adopted yesterday, you have adopted some, at least the law, by which you paid judges in advance, not to be tried or lost documents or to be excused. You know, the judges are also people and they also watch how political and political, I would say, miles of breath in Slovenia. So don't be too sure you bought them with this. I think they'll be happy to put you where you belong. I'm afraid there's something that some people are going to want to take this thing the wrong way. I emphasize once again, I am a member of this commission, I will be a member of this commission, and I will not allow the witch hunt. I'm not going to let the witch hunt, I'm not going to let people brand themselves, but I'm going to ask those who are guilty to be punished, but I'm not just going to punish them, "but, yes, what you did, you can't do, you can't do, you can't do, you can't do, and we're going to send you to whatever place the head of the holding company is," no, no, no, no, total impeding any work in the public sphere, completely and possibly confiscating all the property. I know the coalition doesn't want to do this because it would be too much to collect, but I tell you, if this happened, the state budget would be filled with no problems, all "poofs" would pay off quickly, but we really should have some "squeezing" as some say, "for the balls" to whine and spit out what they stole. Maybe this will work with this committee at least to some extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u103	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u104	Dear Members and Members! It's hard to say in any other way what the forerunner said to me. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have signed and supported the establishment of an investigative commission for two reasons in particular. It is essential to determine whether irregularities and illegality were involved in the award of public contracts and why, in some cases, it was a long-standing irregular construction. In particular, because our task is to investigate and determine whether it is reasonable to suspect that procedures and transactions have been politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent and inconvenient manner due to the suspicion of the presence of clientism, corruption and interconnections between the various actors involved in the preparation, procurement and execution of transactions that are the subject of public procurement, in particular to determine the political responsibility of public function holders and their role in doing so. Corruption and customerism, which undermines the foundations of society, are a disgrace to every democratic society. Therefore, as representatives of the electorate, we are obliged and called upon to examine and determine doubts about the implementation of public procurement and public affairs. No country, no policy is immune, neither is Slovenian. Recall the definition of corruption in the Council of Europe: "Corruption is any activity of persons entrusted with public or private responsibility in the public or private sector, which violates their duties arising from the status of public servants, private sector employees, independent agencies and other relations of this type and is aimed at obtaining any unjustifiable benefits for themselves and for others."the end of the quote. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that anti-corruption content should become a fundamental educational and educational content, the basis of civic education. Many analysts from the former socialist countries point to the problem of the corruption mentality of the citizens of these countries, with Slovenia in even more difficult situations, as we have been under the influence of the Balkan cultural forms for almost half a century, which unfortunately is considered to be a failure to respect the laws and to play the laws and powers of folklore. People in this area have been accustomed to corruption for many years and accept it as something natural, and they do not condemn it morally excessively. Therefore, if the belief that corruption is the right and successful way for economic and social success prevails in society, then the fight against corruption, despite any legislative and institutional measures, is already lost. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that it is equally harmful if the charges are shared in thought and in general. Even worse, we try to clean up our problems under the carpet and put our heads in the sand. This way, we are even more damaging to the country's reputation on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are damaging the reputation and business of the economy, in this case construction. Under difficult market conditions, companies are trying to survive, trying to provide work for more than tens of thousands of workers and their families. With the flat-rate charges, we're only ruining their reputation and not saving anything. Examples of the long construction of the Oncology Institute and the Paediatric Clinic are, in our view, school cases of how public funds and public affairs should not be handled. It is therefore possible to apply positively the case of the Minister, who has accelerated the completion of the construction of the hospital by his intervention, and the case of the Minister of Transport, who has strongly demanded measures to speed up the elimination of irregularities in the construction of motorways. In addition to efficiency and rationality, transparency of business and control are essential elements in public affairs, and the state has sufficient leverage to ensure this. One way is also a parliamentary investigation, which is why the Members of the Slovenian People's Party support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u105	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice day again! Investigative commissions have already been established in the National Assembly, and all have one important common property to spend a lot of money on the one hand and, on the other hand, have not led to any objectives and results. We hope and we want this committee to be different. That instead of the political accounts ahead of the 2010 local elections, there will be real public, prudent, transparent and transparent spending of taxpayers' money, which should be the case. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we do not have any problems, and we will contribute our votes to clear things up and participate in the commission. However, I would suggest to all those who, in Parliament and in this country, know what has been and even further, what will be wrong, that they do not serve parliamentary commissions, for whom we have ample evidence that they are not effective, but do what is their personal and civil duty - the path under their feet, the prosecution, the criminals, to be exposed and, in particular, the names and surnames, to press charges and stop sending political fog. One of us thinks that anything is wrong is bound to expose himself personally and say it, especially by moving ahead of his own doorstep. I am pleased to hear today that in the previous term there were so many things wrong with the construction of the Paediatric Clinic and the Oncology Institute, that it is necessary to investigate this, that the Šentwiska tunnel and the construction of Slovenian highways, a bottomless pit, that we build more slowly and several times more expensive than abroad. I am sure that it is right to investigate this and that it will eventually be shown that there is probably no one without sin on the part of those who propose it. To conclude, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia agrees with this debate and will participate and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u107	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At first, I must say that the establishment of the commission of inquiry has apparently become a passion in this National Assembly. But you all know well, and publicly it is known that fear never says enough. And so, obviously, we're going to be setting up commissions of inquiry by the end of this term, and maybe we're going to get some big, surprising numbers. At today's meeting, the National Assembly will set up a fourth parliamentary inquiry at the request of opposition Members. In doing so, we would like to point out in the Group of Social Democrats that we do not challenge the constitutional and business rights of the opposition Members to establish investigative commissions, as you have done so well in your previous mandate, when you were coalition Members, but the establishment of this commission of inquiry today obviously has some additional momentum. It is also too obvious through the explanation of the initiative to set up a commission and through the emphasis of today's introductory debate on the primary purpose of the campaign for local elections next year in Ljubljana. Therefore, in their explanation of the initiative, the proponents also referred to so many words, including the unnecessary current, coalition and its success in last year's national elections, and to a certain connection to these items which should be subject to parliamentary inquiry. In short, it is too obvious that the proposalers' intention is to join the electoral campaign with this commission of inquiry and thus try to influence the outcome of the local elections next year in Ljubljana. I wish you good luck here. Nevertheless, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it may be good for us to find out once whether there has been irregularities, corruption, customerism, bribery and more in the 20 points mentioned above. To see if there were more than one or only one "miraculous boy" in these stories. Or maybe there was some kind of "miracle lady" in these stories. To find out who has actually built the basis for allegedly controversial public funding investments in Ljubljana in the past 18 years, how non-profit rental apartments have been shared since 1992 and who has all benefited from this privilege in these 18 years. Since I was myself an 8-year-old saint in the city world, if the committee is interested, I will also give her this material from 1990-1994 and you will see who then got non-profit apartments in Ljubljana, some squares and so on. I've kept this for 18 years because I obviously assumed that after 18 years an investigative committee would be set up. Because one was already for Ljubljana, and many years ago it failed. And the results can be interesting, including for the investigators of today's commission of inquiry. We also hope in the Group of Social Democrats that the Commission of Inquiry will take seriously enough to clarify the functioning of public functions in the areas of urbanism, housing and spatial policy, as you wrote in the proposal to set up this commission, as you will have great support in the visible and important function of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has led this important committee in the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana for three terms of reference. And without the "good luck" of this committee, nothing happened in the area of regulating space and choosing locations and building, and so on. We also hope that the Commission will take seriously the policy of the Republic Housing Fund, which has been specifically mentioned today. In addition to 2006 14 years ago, it will also identify for the last three years the prudentity and rational use of public money of this fund for the construction of non-profit dwellings for young and socially disadvantaged people. The Fund's advertisement published in the latest issue of Real Estate magazine, I suggest that you take a look at it, does not show a promising and satisfactory picture. In fact, this advertisement shows how large and where the stock of dwellings has already been built in Slovenia and how these apartments are offered, sold to anyone, stressed - to anyone and not to those targeted groups that are low-income families, young people and so on, which is why this Republic Fund is actually established. Moreover, whoever was sold on favourable terms and also built on favourable loans, i.e. from public funds that should be accessible to all under the same conditions, are not. Perhaps some officials sitting in the municipal authorities will know more about this, for example, because a large group of these apartments are also in Postojna, where an eminent representative of one of the proposing parties sits in this Parliament. Maybe when this commission of inquiry starts to work, he'll have some additional information. However, while we are talking about these dwellings, I would like to warn the applicants that it would be good for them to go down to mention some of the data and numbers, to look at some of the documents that are recently certified in notaries as well. I'll point them out to just one number that's not the right number that you're referring to in the documentation's explanation. It is so-called, and today it has also been explicitly exposed, the third contract of the Housing Fund since 5. 12. 2008 for 119 apartments and 238 parking places. A square meter of housing for these 119 apartments was €1750 plus parking spaces, totalling €2036. If you benefit from getting a comparison take another institution in Slovenia, this is the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which calculates the average prices for dwellings in Slovenia and you will see that at the moment this was purchased, the average price in Ljubljana was EUR 2680. So much so that you can correct the material you've given us that you don't needlessly deceive the public with false information. In short, there will be plenty of opportunities to clarify some dilemmas and publicly known anomalies and irregularities, of course under the assumption of the good purpose of the work of this investigative commission. Therefore, I see no reason why we should discuss the issue in a broad way today, since we are only at the beginning of an investigative commission. However, some of the debates so far by the applicants put me in a position not to know whether we are already listening to the inquiry panel's report on the results of the investigation, or whether we are just setting up a commission that may reach the State Assembly in the coming months, perhaps even years before the end of the term of office, with its report. I also find it disturbing when it comes to the fact that a parliamentary inquiry is a kind of judicial procedure to determine who is to blame, who is not to blame. One of the applicants also spoke about this. This way of arguing about the usefulness of setting up a parliamentary commission of inquiry is completely wrong and distorts the interpretation of the commission of inquiry. In the parliamentary investigation, no decision shall be taken, it shall be proposed that the necessary hearings and inquiries be carried out and that, on the basis of these procedures, it shall be determined whether there has been any damage to the state property, the extent to which it is at the level and whether any of the holders of public functions are politically responsible or whose interests may have led to these and similar acts. And if we look at the city of Ljubljana 18 years ago, many of the holders of these public functions, in the areas identified for the purpose of this investigation, were also in the hands of individuals from the types of parties proposing this investigation. And maybe that's the key to the success of this investigation, or on the contrary, the main obstacle. Let's be surprised and see. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is in the interest of all Slovenian taxpayers to determine whether public money has been spent economically, transparently and in accordance with applicable legislation. And it is a shame that this investigation focused only on the city of Ljubljana. It might be interesting to see if only this extension was extended and managed by all 210 municipalities in Slovenia and to try to determine and clarify whether many projects and transactions with public funds and through public contracts have been carried out carefully and in the spirit of a good host over the past 15 years. It's not about innovation. In the previous term, you proposed an investigative committee dealing with 86 legal entities, not to explain further. It's not about any innovation, but it's surprising that you've focused on just one place. In this case, many of the public function holders at the level of local communities and also at the state level, including those sitting in the National Assembly, would blush and perhaps sweat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u109	Mr Peter Verlich has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u110	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we were among the signatories to the request for the establishment of an investigative commission which, due to its long title, received the short name of the investigative commission for the area of so-called high buildings. Let me introductoryly point out here that this is not an investigative commission aimed at the functioning of the Ljubljana mayor, as was the case in the public eye. The request clearly states that the purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to establish the political responsibility of public function holders who have participated in the preparation and implementation of investments financed by the State budget in the field of housing projects and the purchase of housing facilities and related garage facilities or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects to rebuild and upgrade the premises of the University of Primorskie, projects to build the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, public buildings, publicly funded public buildings, projects of public interest, projects of public investment in the area of so-called high buildings in public health buildings, projects of construction investments in the areas of so-called high buildings, projects of state importance and projects of public use funded by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana since 1992 onwards. It is therefore projects that have been carried out within the mandates of several governments, including in the previous mandate. It is interesting to note, however, that only the mayor of the Ljubljana Municipality made a very loud announcement when the request for a parliamentary inquiry was made, and a number of people who were supposed to act independently and in the interest of the public were placed in the defence. Let me mention only the public protection of the Ljubljana mayor by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. This is the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission who creates the concept of corruption and corruption in accordance with the needs of the current ruling policy and in accordance with who it concerns. It is therefore becoming more than obvious that the Commission of Inquiry will have a very difficult job. Even the easiest work will be possible in the case of the purchase of apartments by the Municipality of Ljubljana. Why? In the same breath, when the Ljubljana mayor publicly called for people to wait for the purchase of apartments at the end of the year for a price of less than EUR 2,000 per square metre of residential space, the Ljubljana Municipality without an invitation, which would be the only cost-effective, since at the time there were more than 1,000 unsold apartments on the market in Ljubljana, or without inviting more than one bidder to negotiate and thus reaching a lower price, which the Court of Auditors in one of the reasons for non-economics, the Ljubljana Municipality bought apartments at a higher price than the mayor's forecasts, at the price of EUR 2,500, directly from the company which signed a contract with the Ljubljana Mayor's family company during the same period. A little more difficult work will be carried out by the commission of inquiry in the Armeria-Foresteria project, where the final value of the project almost doubled from about a billion million former Slovenian tolars to almost 2 billion tolars. The former Minister of Higher Education, Mr Makro 5, refused to settle the bill, but immediately after the acquisition of the Ministry, Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and paid the bill. The investor of the Armeri-Foresteria project was the University of Primorska, rector is Dr. Rado Bohinc, a member of the Social Democrats, former Minister of the Interior. The same company performs as the contractor of the building of the apartment house Gregor Golobič. Even more difficult work will be done in the field of operation of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time of the directorship of Edward Owen, a former prominent member of the LDS, this fund made the best deals. The purchase of land through straw companies, where the price difference occurred on the same day of the twenties, and the difference paid the fund despite the fact that the land could be purchased directly, are only part of this real estate story. An interesting part is the sale of dwellings in Ljubljana of 1,300 euros per square metre in the period between 3 000 and 4 000 euros per square metre in the same locations and without preventing further speculation and immediate further sales from the Fund under the terms of the sale. A well-targeted measure of providing housing at affordable prices to young families has thus served as a source of enormous profits for the sale of these apartments to which the Fund’s management and the then supervisor, Minister Kopač, must have known. Mr Kopač is the LDS Minister who replaced Mr Shalamun, Director of the Energy Directorate of the Ministry of Economy in the current human resources tsunami. Indeed, in the meantime, he replaced the blue with the orange color, so he is so much more uncompromising when he continues his recruitment. He was disappointed only when he replaced the director of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant because he needed the Government to replace the proposal of the board of directors, led by Romana Jordan Cizelj. That's why the discredits and mudslides we heard weeks ago. However, since this is about money, Mr Kopač is clearly aware of the money, which proves that he was in control of the Owens or the Housing Fund and, given the well-known human resources campaign of the current government, he will undoubtedly succeed. Investments in health care are specific issues that drag through several LDS governments as a spring, and connections at different levels are so strong that they carried away Minister Bručan, who wanted to make order. Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic has tightened matters in the field of health investments, unfortunately her mandate has expired too quickly. Let us hope that the current Minister continues to regulate the situation in this area. This parliamentary inquiry will also demonstrate this. Oncology projects, pediatric clinics and many others have dragged themselves through the mandates of several governments. In most cases they were planned and started during the period of LDS rule. During the period when Gregor Golobič, the current minister, as the then second LDS man, took care of an appropriate human resources paradigm at all levels. The value of some health investments has not only doubled, but the initial values have exceeded the planned value five times and more. Criminal proceedings have also been initiated in some of the cases which will be the subject of a parliamentary inquiry. In any legal country concerned with the reputation of justice and thus with respect to the reputation of the institutions of the State, criminal proceedings would also receive an epilogue no later than two years after the introduction. Despite the heavy charges and the suspicion of major abuses, none of the proceedings have been completed. In most cases, cases are slowed down by the prosecution, and finally by the time the investigating judges or the judiciary start to hear about them. It is in the public interest to find out why there has not been a judicial epilogue in all these cases. In most cases it was individuals who were high in the hierarchy of the then political authorities, and in some cases individuals who enjoy the protection and support of the current ruling coalition and power. Obviously, the judiciary and other investigative bodies have been dismissed in the course of investigating these irregularities and extensive damages to public funds and it is therefore difficult to work before the commission of inquiry. The Group of Members will actively participate in its work, and we expect the same from the other groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u111	Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We already have a fifth request for a parliamentary inquiry ahead of us in this mandate. In practice, at each regular meeting of the National Assembly, we set up a parliamentary commission, which is a sad record achievement. In a negative sense, of course. Four investigative commissions have been set up throughout the previous mandate and are also proposed by the Janša Coalition. There's only two in office before. This raises legitimate doubts about their merits. Such inflation in setting up commissions inevitably leads to their evaluation. First, their classification as an important tool of the National Assembly, particularly the opposition, to detect irregularities. However, given how largely they were set up and what the results of these investigations were then on behalf of the National Assembly, it is regrettable that they also contribute much to the evaluation of Parliament's reputation in general. So we're playing with something that hurts us all for a long time. Whether it is more harmful to the current ruling coalition or to the opposition, it is not possible to forge political capital. Since 1992, a total of 17 parliamentary committees have been established since the start of the National Assembly. They're not exactly an envious reputation in public. Prof. Igor Kavčič of the Faculty of Law, for example, estimates that without risk it is possible to establish that parliamentary investigations do not fulfil the basic purpose, that is, to detect irregularities and abuse of powers, but are turned into discreditation. Some commissions have not completed their work at all; others have drawn up reports which, according to many earlier estimates, were a political pamphlet at the expense of political opponents and a serious basis for ensuring the political responsibility of officials. The public is therefore justifiably critical that they are established only to avoid irregularities being detected. Finally, the costs incurred by taxpayers with these investigative commissions are high. The real farce, however, was set up by the Commission of Inquiry in the previous term. The fact that there are three members of the ruling coalition has already been established by four investigative commissions is eloquent enough. The first was to reveal irregularities in the functioning of the state's prosecutors, led by Attorney General Zdenka Cerar. But she did not get any hard evidence. The Commission's responsibility for selling state-owned shares was, of course, set up by Members in the previous term of the ruling coalition to prevent the opposition from seeking political bargaining under the table or at the table, with Mercator shares in the office of Prime Minister Janez Janša, who brought full control of the newspaper house Dela for a while. When they set up a commission at the request of the opposition to investigate the suspicious circumstances of the purchase of Finnish armoured vehicles, Patria 8x8, and the involvement of officials at all, but never to the end of the investigation of illicit arms trafficking, the coalition achieves that they have removed the president of this commission, who has apparently come too far in the investigation. As a counterweight and to divert public attention, the SDS has set up a commission to investigate all military purchases by 2004 and is also responsible for disarming the Territorial Defence in 2009. The results of the chick. It is right for us to tell the public how the Parliamentary Commission is being set up. Article 93 of the Constitution provides that a parliamentary inquiry into a public matter must be established if a third of the Members so require. In practice, this means that the Commission has set up 30 Members, regardless of the availability of the remaining 60s. From this point of view, all proposals were legitimate, and so is this demand today. The second question is: How many reasons are there for it? The Constitution, as well as the 16-year-old Law on Parliamentary Investigation, are very stalemate in the definition of what may be the subject of a parliamentary inquiry. However, this does not oblige Members and parties, including opposition parties, to make the correct use of this, as has already been said, in the constitution of certain forms of Parliament's action. This year, the opposition SDS, SLS and SNS parties do not state one thing for the purpose of the parliamentary investigation, but five very different matters of public interest, which practically prevents a serious investigation. The investigation is long after years, long after dark, long after objects, in short, you have seen before the entire name of the commission was read, that the title is already so long that it is impossible to understand. That it is not so much for the applicants to investigate possible irregularities involving public officials, but for incorrect political accounting and discreditation, shows that Gregor Golobič is also on the list of defendants for the second time this year. One commission of inquiry is obviously not enough for him, perhaps even feeling honored. One commission of inquiry will deal with investigative crimes that it is intended to commit when it was not a minister at all or when it was not in the position of a public official, which according to some lawyers is not in accordance with the Constitutional Decision on the Parliamentary Commission. Just as such an investigation cannot be the subject of a case which is not of public interest, it cannot be the subject of an investigation by a person who has not performed a public function in the course and with the act before it. That's what happens in this case. On top of that, the Golobič opposition has already declared guilty in advance in the title of the investigative commission and has thus denied him judicial protection, as the Constitutional Court also points out. Now, in this Golobič investigative, on request, they are re-indicting that he has settled an account for the reconstruction of the premises of the University of the Sea ordered by the previous government. It is about the fact that the Minister inherited a problem that the previous ministers did not want to solve and the entire mandate was involved. In the end, the problem became a big, real Gordy knot, which could not have been solved differently than the current minister. Today it doesn't even matter what the reasons for the complications were anymore, the university threatened to lose its premises, the costs of outstanding obligations grew with interest from day to day, and the only solution to this problem at that time was the payment of outstanding liabilities. You were also talking about the business that was to be done for Gregor Golobič by Macro 5 at the Vinjola facility. Of course you weren't careful about that. The business you are opening and reading to him was performed at his facility in 2004, when he was neither Minister nor Minister when he was not in any position. I guess that's when he was paid. And now it's 2009. And in 2009 there was supposed to be an open case at the University of Primorsk. In addition, for the first time so far, you are also requesting an investigation into business in a particular local community. The Ljubljana Municipal Assembly has not chosen the opposition randomly, but the request is directed against the functioning of the Ljubljana mayor, who is known to have publicly supported the parties of today's government coalition before the elections. Apparently, he has to pay his price for this. The mayor accuses himself of telling people to wait until the price falls below EUR 2,000, but he bought 119 non-profit apartments for, as you say, significantly higher prices from Vegrad. A significantly higher price is €36 above €2,000. If there is a reasonable suspicion that this has been done as the opposition parties accuse the mayor of corruption, which is a criminal offence, it would be right for your client in the city council to file appropriate complaints and leave the criminals to come to a bottom. But no, in the SDS, SLS and SNS, they preferred a parliamentary commission because, in particular, the SDS has more political benefits, even though perhaps three years later - but that would be after the local elections - it would have proved that the charges were unfounded. Therefore, there is already a strong public belief that this is the start of a pre-election campaign by the SDS, which has chosen to take power in Ljubljana in the coming year. The assessments made by the proponents on what is cheap and what is expensive are only individual feelings based on their subjective judgement. The contract shows that the apartments were purchased at 1,750 euros per square metre, and if we compare the prices achieved at the time of purchase with other comparable purchases of market apartments, we can estimate that the price was favourable, by 25 to 30% lower than the apartments in Ljubljana at the time. According to the Geodetic Authority, these are the only relevant data on average housing prices, at that time the price per square metre in Ljubljana was Euro2,680. Mayor Jankovic bought apartments for 2,036 euros, including garages, which is about 25% less than the average. I'm sure the apartments, even if we wait a long time for them to fall, they won't fall more than 25%. And even at this point, according to the latest data available by the Geodetic Authority, the average price for an apartment in Ljubljana is around EUR 2700. This information is from June, and there are no more. With regard to the remaining indications in the request for an investigation, such as the Paediatric Clinic and the Oncology Institute, the investigation will be interesting, as members of the previous government were also very involved. Both investments were at a crucial stage just when SDS Minister Bručan and Zofija Mazej Kukovic led the Ministry of Health. During this time, the story of Domna Zavrla's "wonderful boy" and his business in pediatrics also happened. It would also be interesting to know how the settlement was made with the SCT following the joint gurgling of Minister and Mr Zidar. Or perhaps ask yourself who is responsible for stopping the construction project at the Clinical Centre, which is standing because it was "shampast" and was unprofessionally prepared in the previous term by Minister Bručan. But it is true that it is necessary to say that we will not only speak negatively, commending the new Minister Miklavčič, who without major shocks led to the opening of both the Paediatric Clinic and the Neurological Clinic. Finally, it must be said that she was indeed also the proponent of one of the established investigative commissions, which is already investigating the involvement of public officials in the circumstances that enabled Taiwanese managers to take over businesses. However, unlike others, we have clearly identified the subject of an investigation in the request, the aim of which, based on an analysis of the most infamous cases of Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz, is to identify weaknesses in the legislation which has enabled the Takingover of Taiwan, political responsibility for this and to propose appropriate changes in the takeover and other legislation. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proposed commission of inquiry is unnecessary, pointless, pre-convicted of failure and only a cheap political game in the function of local elections in the Municipality of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Rozjej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Although I myself come from such waters that sometimes, even in the debates in this House, someone will be circumcised on the fact that humor is what I have served bread with so far, but I can see that in this national assembly there are people who want to serve bread in a much more humorous way. I find it odd to hear yesterday's debate where some have been screaming against raising pay grade for officials of the judiciary, but today they are setting up an investigative commission with the same grunting, which I think is not intended for anything other than what has already been mentioned, but also to raise some Member's salary or perhaps even a Member's salary. Although the leader of my parliamentary group said it was a cheap political trick, I think the trick is absolutely too expensive because the costs of this parliamentary group will burden us all in the final stage. I also think that although some of the topics that the investigative commission would like to investigate are also worth looking at in more detail, the operation of the housing fund and the construction of the oncological clinic and the paediatric clinic. However, at least one of the things that the Commission is supposed to deal with seems to me to be not within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Of course, it is the funds, the budget of the City Municipality of Ljubljana. If anything, then the city council has to investigate it. I understand, of course, the signatories from the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian National Party to sign such a request, because they in Ljubljana in the city council of their representatives, thank God, do not. They are in Ljubljana at the level of minor customers. As for the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, it seems to me that with the reference of this investigator, he spits in his own bowl, but the thing tastes like everyone who wants to eat. I mean, if we're already going to different congregations, we should look at another congregation. Perhaps we should look at the operation and use of the resources of the Municipality of Koper, where your political companion, Mayor Popovic, and where construction works are also taking place mainly with one company, which grew incomparable at the time of his mayorship, but here any other percentages were mentioned. Members who are mayors are also sitting in the National Assembly. Perhaps you should look at the municipality of Šentjur, also there at Mayor Tislja, CNC builds most of the things in the municipality, and evil languages say that two mayors of the family house. I don't know, maybe. However, if it is to be principled, and investigative commissions are to be principled, then it is likely that this should be the case. Even though I think these things are more of a work of law enforcement than they are of us here. It seems particularly hypocritical to me that on the one hand the reasons for this investigation are justified by the fact that oncological patients cannot wait, children cannot wait for a new paediatric clinic, so it is unacceptable, what is going on, and it needs to be investigated. It is therefore unacceptable to build cheap rental apartments for young families in Ljubljana and these young families can wait. Of course, because they're Ljubljanaese, because they don't vote for your customers. Shame, shame, shame again! At the time of the adoption of the budget rebalancing, the three Ljubljana MEPs put one of the amendments that went in this direction into the construction of rental apartments. Why? Because the need to rent apartments is the biggest in Ljubljana. Why? I am also interested in why the state housing fund built apartments in various municipalities, mentioned here Postojna, where there are needs, not to say that they are small, but are certainly smaller than they are in Ljubljana. In Ljubljana's calls in recent years we can only accommodate beneficiaries in 2006 22 and 23%, in 2007 16%, in 2008 only 14% of the beneficiaries could receive these apartments. Why? Because they're not there. And I can also say from my personal experience that in the same year 2008 I bought an apartment in Ljubljana, unfortunately without a garage. The garage would cost me an extra 6,000 euros. The apartment came to me slightly over 2,000 euros. And if I resent the Ljubljana mayor, he could have dealt so well with the builders. I'd like a garage for the same money. I already thought that I had bought a comfortable apartment, but I think that some here are doing even better for the beneficiaries, for those waiting for housing, and for public finances, more favourable arrangements. That's why I don't think many of these future subjects deserve it. I will also be happy to cooperate if it is necessary on such a committee. I think she'll show everything but what her proponents expect from her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, we are dealing with state resources, the state budget, which is the money of all taxpayers, and not just the botts that have contributed to this reflective irregularities in the area of construction projects and purchases of residential buildings, projects in public use, various public health facilities such as the Pediatric Clinic, the Oncological Institute, highways without lanes, the construction of tunnels that are being repaired before they become a function of purpose. All of this has happened in the eyes of the public, who are powerless to resist things that also have a criminal omen. Some similar things also happen in the area of local communities, which are not immune to similar things, and it would be right for the Commission to extend its activity to any other municipality and not just to Ljubljana. It points to corruption and clientism, which until now has been an unpunished crime with a criminal omen, and our courts do not detect it. Maybe now that we've raised their wages, it'll be better. It is unacceptable that years and years such things happen and happen again and again, but no one has responded. Things haven't been going on since yesterday. This is clearly evidence that the policy involved, which has covered up and stalled the issue. So I'm surprised how it's possible that she just jumped, but better late than never. I hope and believe that the Commission will succeed in extending the investigation to the municipalities, where it is also suspected that corruption and clientism are involved, and by pointing the finger of the law enforcement body to those who have been successfully hiding behind the policy and the parties and who have happily adopted social money in an illicit way. I don't understand how it's possible that there's been no persecution of outright irregularities. Those mayors who took advantage of the mayor's power were not persecuted to the detriment of the citizens. He didn't want to see it, despite warnings of overpaid constructions and poor social money management. I think the commission will have a hard and responsible job. The work will also increase to law enforcement authorities and the Court of Auditors, which will now no longer be able to avoid irregularities that will be revealed by the Commission of Inquiry. I wish them good luck at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Of course, I don't have much to add to what has already been said today. Unlike some, I will support the establishment of a commission. Make sure he does his work properly and report the results to the relevant authorities as soon as possible. But if, as usual, when you do not want to solve the problem, you set up a commission, then, of course, the initiators must finally take responsibility for the loss of tax money and our time. I think that our basic task as Members is not to go if they have a financial police in Italy, but we would like to go to Parliament with the political police. Our job is to adopt, in particular, good, the best living, feasible and enforceable laws, but I must say that, regardless of the Government, as far as practical life is concerned, we are all not the most successful. We have already amended the Public Procurement Act several times, and yet the country has not been able to select the best and the cheapest bidder in many calls for our tax money. Once again, I call upon all those who are watching us now, as we have done these things, then we would think that there is something wrong in this country, in all congregations, in all companies. Thus we see that Ljubljana, as the capital, is successfully and rapidly developing, that most Slovenian municipalities are also making good progress. And that's it. But whoever thinks something's wrong in this country shouldn't wait for the results of the commission. They will come to meals several times just before the local-political elections, but they should go to the relevant authorities right now, which have improved their activities in the area of economic crime, accelerated and should make an appropriate announcement and report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u119	Mr. Puksich. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Commission of Inquiry, any kind, including this one, is supposed to deal with illegal spending, in this case of funds, public funds. Public funds are, of course, suitable for illegal business, because control is different there. This is probably not so easy for private funds, since any owner with a name and surname will make sure that its funds are used rationally. Of course, public funding is different. And here is particularly at stake the area of construction, which is a sector that, although hit by a variety of odd business, procedures, actions and activities, is not because in this area people would already be more prone to corruption, but because it is in this area that a lot of financial resources are being converted, especially public funds, which are particularly interesting for the site, for actions by side. Already a small part of the funds - if it comes to large funds, they represent huge amounts of money. Only for comparison, if, say, in Slovenia in construction [[it's just like that, because it's easier to calculate.]] One billion euros, but I don't think I've made much mistake, just 1%, only 1% represents 10 million. However, we know from experience that 1% of these groups probably wouldn't even get together because they're just 20, 30, 40, 50 or 100%. Probably no one's dealing with it for 1%, but that would be 10 million already. In addition, price fluctuations, such as building surface units, are also very topical in construction matters. On this basis, huge amounts of money can also be made available. And I'm going to give the case again. For example, the price of a square metre of flats on a round, for easy calculation, is 2,000 square meters, as we've heard from a colleague today. And if, for example, the municipality buys one square metre of 2,500 euros, the smaller apartment with 50 square meters represents 25,000 euros in just one apartment; in Slovenia a few thousand apartments are built. And only by fluctuating prices can you get enormous amounts of money, and this for nothing - because of the agreement, because of the signing of the contract, the price difference brings huge amounts of money. And that's why this area is particularly exposed to various speculations. Even worse is the situation with regard to infrastructure facilities, where with various annexes and additional parts, such as the example of a highway, but this is not the subject of this commission now. Let's say a case of pediatrics that, as far as I can tell, has been irritable five times. So the price of a square meter has risen five times. And for these million amounts of the building, this represents a few 10 million just differences. Of course, this raises the question of who is to blame. Because it's construction, I'd say, construction. I'm sure you don't. Not the builders at all. The blame is in control and also in a court that will now have higher salaries, which does not work within the real time frame, does not take decisions, does not take decisions, does not take judgments within the real time frame, so many things can happen. If a matter lies in a drawer for 18 years, for example, a building can be broken if it does not decide if something is not decided, it will not be condemned. It should also be pointed out that this Commission of Inquiry is not directed at the construction industry in general. Not at all and not at all! But against certain clientelistic connections that do damage, in the form of annexes, additional works, modified projects, additional changes, additional works and then various surprises that occur during the construction, because no one knew what was half a meter underground, that the foundations would need to be arranged differently, that the building would need to be otherwise based and similar. The Commission's task is to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and not criminally. So I would like to say that those who say that if anyone knows anything, if anyone has any information for a stranger to take a path under their feet and that they should go to an appropriate institution called the police or the investigating judge or whatever. Everything else is an entanglement with unverified facts, so I say it is a matter of finding political responsibility, not criminal responsibility. That's another thing. But if I'm going to have to go to the right institution, let me remind you. Yeah, but where were you when you were talking about Patricia? When you did, that's what they said. I don't know, though. A journalist who was supposed to be well paid, that's how it sounds, said there, "she and this one is guilty, I have evidence, but I won't show it to you." But why didn't you go to the police at the time if you knew all of this, then you would have gone to the police, not if you were entangled on TV and involved the television of a foreign country in this matter, after the experience of 1998, when it was Austrian, but now it was Finnish. And there even the journalist said shamelessly, "Yes, this one and this one is guilty, but I will not give you any evidence." Listen, where were you then? If you were doing this at the time, then it is not wise to tell us how we should do it, but to go to an appropriate institution to determine criminal responsibility, and we say that political responsibility should also be established. For political responsibility, however, the police will not be the right authority to decide. And lastly, I would like to say that the impression that only Ljubljana is under attack is not true. That's not true! In this proposal, Koper, these famous buildings Armeria, Foresteria, which is part of the University of Primorska, whose rector we know who it is not to mention once again that it is a prominent member of the SD, anyway, because it is irrelevant in the final stage. It's about buildings whose value has increased twice during construction. This could not have happened in the previous government because that government did not confirm this incitement. As soon as someone else performed, of course, the matter went through. A lot of things are described there. I would also agree that it would be good if all two hundred and ten congregations could investigate this commission, but as I recall, in another commission not so long ago did you claim that such a commission investigating many things would not find anything. So that's a recipe for nothing. That is to say, if this commission were to be two hundred and ten municipalities, then we should suggest that this is a permanent commission of the National Assembly to investigate, I don't know, forever. It's a little awkward to wrap it up. I would say, however, that I am strange and disturbed by the position expressed that the Commission is unnecessary and that it is already doomed to failure. This has been said by one of the coalition parties, and I wonder if you already know in the coalition that the matter is going to fail, or if you will do anything to prevent the commission from working, or how else, that you have invented any way to boycott the work of this commission, or whether it meant something else. Thus, to keep on predicting that it is doomed to failure, it can only be seen from coffee or a cup of coffee or there is something else in the back. That's what you should be asking yourself. And there's something else I'd like to say. Much has been said that investigative committees are spending money and that it is disturbing for someone. Then I would ask you why, then, in this mandate, you also proposed one of the investigative commissions, at the very beginning, if this is a waste of money. There must be double criteria, that's what I imagine. If that is the case, then why don't you propose a change to our Rules of Procedure, where you would delete those articles that speak of investigative commissions to determine political responsibility. Propose, now there are proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure and suggest that those articles that speak of investigative commissions that have a specific task be deleted and are one of the instruments of democracy, democratic countries, democratic parliaments and would do so. I support the establishment of this commission, and I want to work successfully to ensure that that snorkeling, that it is already doomed to failure by one of the coalition groups, will not come to fruition. And what would be worse is that this was not already a pre-announcement that the commission could not succeed or normally work. So I hope that this has been said so for the public to demonstrate how investigative commissions are not effective or similar. But if that's what you mean, then you have every opportunity to go to the beginning, that's to change the rules of procedure, and delete that. During this time since you've been in power, you've deleted a lot in one year, and it probably wouldn't be unusual if you deleted any other investigative committees. I hope the commission succeeds. I support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that these investigative commissions are not about becoming presidents of all opposition Members of Parliament, who are not yet. Of course, I wish the Commission a successful job. Allow me to maintain a fraction of my doubts about the success of these investigative commissions, but not because I would know more than you know about this, because it is almost impossible, but because I have experience with these investigative commissions, which have just given special results in the past. Nevertheless, I wish this committee a good journey. I would say, however, that an act establishing an investigative commission will be enforced on its own. The legal conditions are met, your right is, therefore the criteria are met and we will not even decide on this act because it is self-evident. However, we will decide on the composition of this commission later at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Construction is, of course, an area such as some other areas worth paying attention to. We know the Annexes that arise from individual contracts and the problems investors face when they want to curb the desire to earn money from operators. And this, of course, is what we are witnessing in construction. In the introduction, I have heard very commendable words about how the Minister of Health has successfully intervened in the field of investment. Let me say that I do not deny her these abilities, that I know that she is capable of assessing quality and is also able to save on individual investments, but in doing so I think about your statement, which somehow leads me to believe that the minister who replaced your minister was successful. Of course, that means the minister was unsuccessful in front of her. And that was Minister Bručan, of your kind, of your coalition. And when we talk about savings and when I heard a few discussions yesterday about how our workers live, I agree with the assessment that because they are problems, there is an economic crisis, which is also a consequence of the insatiability of some after-profits. Here I would just like to mention that, in the previous term, I tried twice or three times, when profits were, in this House, to consider and adopt a law on compulsory profit sharing. This has been done by Members of the Social Democrats in the past term, and there has been no understanding. Now the Act on voluntary participation in profit for some is a mockery, because profit is simply not in these times of crisis, but when it was an option, there was no obedience to it in the National Assembly. And when we talk about this at the same time and talk about saving in the state budget, it might also be possible to save on the compensations received or received by some ministers who could easily find a job in the year when they stopped being ministers. This is where the euro would be saved, too, when you mentioned the Minister of Health. She's no exception at all. She was also on that list, and probably some big need for it was not because she sold her share in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I'd probably say anything for the sum of it, but for the sum that workers who work there, it's hard to imagine. [[...]] At the same time, we also have professors teaching in different universities, while at the same time staying on the state budget when receiving compensation. When we talk about this, it is sometimes necessary to consider the consequences of these statements, which we sometimes make on average and after a long time. I would like this investigative commission to work successfully to have some results. However, I doubt this and what was somehow a picture in the media, because we are also talking about investments in health care, when, on behalf of the investor and on behalf of the contractor, the two were sitting on swings and binging with their feet at a very successful investment, which was a few times irritated, while the journalists were simultaneously closed in this very good investment because there was already a malfunction at the opening. There's a lot to look at. However, it can also happen that this commission receives or even comes to results that you do not expect. Whenever a political responsibility is investigated or investigated, stories can be untangled or entangled differently than the designers plan. I want a lot of success on this committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. This investigator can be very helpful if she does well and if she does not have too much leverage at work or too many obstacles. It can be useful if there is not some remarkable political spectacle, but it will work for what it was set up for. I think that some interesting connections can be revealed, some networks that I think in this country, however, exist, which make individual buildings financed from the state budget very impertinent. That this investigator is justified, in some way I am also prevented by Mr Križman's Minister of Finance from answering my question two days ago concerning the rent. See, Minister Križanič said in terms of rents, only tax administrations, clearly and loudly that the country for rents averages €456,000 per month, which is around €100,000 more than last year. It is said that, at the annual level, the country only deducts 1.2 million more for rents in this year's tax year than it did in last year or before. The Republic of Slovenia has 350 leases concluded, not to mention that some 36, 35 locations owned by the State are now empty. 350 leases amount to EUR 24 million per year. If the Minister followed my call to try to reduce rents by 10% to 20%, taking 20% given that the financial and economic crisis and that the real estate market was quite different in the past, in order to be able to obtain some premises substantially cheaper both for rent and for purchase, at the assumption of EUR 24 million 20% lower rent would mean almost EUR 5 million. Five million euros is not enough for this country as well. Therefore, the State pays very expensive rents, does not work economically, because it has certain spaces empty, neither does it rent them, nor does it offer them for sale. The fact is that there are some connections with real estate tycoons, I think we can call them that, and individual bureaucrats or even politicians. And that is not good and it is right, I am sure that this area will also open up in this investigation, because in the end it would also mean considerable savings for the state budget as such. If these links discussed by this investigator are revealed, which is the subject of this investigation, this would mean that the ties, let's hope, are broken up in the future and that we will do some good work for this country with this investigator, let's hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I have one proposal for candidates when they said they had a problem with such a long name as the Commission of Inquiry. I have a proposal for you to call this committee a nice commission of inquiry for Jankovic. That would be great, because it's short and tiny and everyone understands. Then you have a commission to investigate Golobič and a highway investigation committee and a commission to count the deleted. That's a suggestion. I think the press will take it better when you have such a big name as your investigative committee, so it won't be a problem. See, one year and two days after the parliamentary elections, the Slovenian Democratic Party or the opposition will receive the fourth investigative commission. If you continue with this dynamic that we have witnessed so far, and I believe that by the end of your term of office, you will be able to have some 16 commission of inquiry in this mandate, if we sum it up nicely. Here, four a year, it's such a nice number, it's four years in a row, and it's 16 years in a row. Oh. K., you're 16 years old, I agree. Things need to be investigated to the ground. Now you're going to investigate high-rise constructions and highways, maybe some more underground, underground stuff, because you're still missing it. Look, what you're doing is simply not for me, and it can't be credible. What is the purpose of the commission of inquiry? There was something about that today. Research and detection of irregularities, infringements of powers and public functions. And at the same time, it seems to me that on purpose, even though you've been citing yourself differently all the time, you're forgetting one thing. It is that the investigative commission is not and cannot quickly be a court of law. Why? Because what politicians say in the work of investigative commissions is political judgment. However, in judicial proceedings, as you have rightly determined, administrative sanctions are imposed. And I think we understand what a big hole there is between these two kinds of proceedings. There are certain clear and certain limits to the determination of investigative commissions, but apparently they do not have borders in the Slovenian Parliament. One of Slovenia's distinguished legal experts has already been quoted today. Let me add one more statement or quote. Such a limitation on the purpose of the parliamentary investigation should prevent too often the proposal and introduction of a parliamentary inquiry into various irregularities. Well, that's exactly what you're supposed to be doing. I don't know, but maybe it's such an extensive establishment of investigative commissions, sorry, even a good business, and it's by you, who, last night in this House, moralized about every euro that's not properly, transparent, I'll say, economically used. Why am I saying this? The SDS task force, as the largest opposition parliamentary group, has co-operated with the division of functions in this House of eight chairmen. Is that right? So you have eight working-body presidents, now you're going to add four other presidents of investigative commissions, which will, of course, be fair, in the same rank, with the same privileges and similar pay. I'll give you that. As a result of me, you may have them until the end of your term of office 29 to ensure that the presidents of the working bodies sit among you alone. I don't have a problem with that. But look, if we're running a demagogy, and you're running it in this House every day, then it's only right to look at really all the aspects of this extensive establishment of investigative commissions. Let's be honest. Today I'm sorry, I'm not talking to you. [[...]] I'm not talking, but there's no dialogue between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u127	Please, only Mrs. Zupevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u128	May I say to the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u129	Here you go, Mrs. Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u130	Mr Vice President, my time is running out now, while a colleague from the SDS is having trouble holding back. May I? My time is running out, and so is the time of the Group of Members. The Commission of Inquiry is, of course, a legitimate tool for control. Legitimate. But within certain limits of normal and not abuse this important tool of Parliament. I think the public will assess whether you use or abuse this institute. And how thorough you know how to use your work, as has already been said today, in your previous mandate, when you, for example, investigated the sale of government shares by Kad and the Court. For each company a few minutes, judgment, the matter is resolved. And today it has already been mentioned that we do not really have much to discuss. The investigative commission will be established, that's your right. My colleagues forgot to say one thing. Such an investigative committee, if the conditions are met, that is, you have thirty Members' signatures, it is necessary to establish. That's true, but with one reservation. That would hold if it didn't stop the SDS. Why? Since the opposition also had thirty signatures in its previous term, it was unable to use this institution because you prevented it. Speaking of providing this important instrument of opposition, I believe we are repeating ourselves, but these are facts. And the fact is that we can add one more thing: or if the SDS does not disable or suspend the President. Because we also had an investigative commission of opposition that could not finish its work because the SDS so decided. And in my opinion, it was one of the few investigative commissions that had a report drawn up and could have made its findings to the public. In one of the research tasks of the National Assembly, which is sometimes very interesting, I read another very interesting conclusion. And it is that so-called newer, young democracies are more often served by the Institute of Investigative Investigations than developed democracies. This conclusion also says something. But I'll tell you, I'm afraid your flour won't make any bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you. Mrs Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. A few things have come up that I want to further explain or explain why the Commission of Inquiry. Article 1 of the Act states that a parliamentary inquiry into matters of public interest shall be carried out to identify and assess the actual situation which may sometimes be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, for amending legislation in a particular field and for other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction. Some of you say there's no point in us having investigative committees. In this case, I am joining the proposal already made by my fellow Member. Now that we've changed the rules of procedure, let's delete the possibility of establishing an investigative commission if you're saying it doesn't make sense and they don't find anything. But as has been said, we find political responsibility with the investigative commissions. Obviously, some of you are afraid of this political responsibility. Some also worry about finances. Yesterday there was nothing to worry about when we were raising funds for the judges. And for something else in this government, there's no money problem, just for what doesn't fit you right now. We find political responsibility through the commission of inquiry, and the law enforcement authorities, the police, the prosecution, the courts must find out. The law really assumes that someone who suspects that there is a problem with reporting it. It also provides for action on an official basis. And a very well-known and current problem is the case where the State Prosecutor's Office is acting on an official duty, but the Minister of Justice does not agree with this, the Member's colleague disagrees with this and exerts abnormal pressure on the Prosecutor's Office, which acts in accordance with its powers. In addition, several times have been said, and we have also seen in the media that Kosovo is also dealing with certain things. Probably not because all things are fine or anti-corruption commission is designed to identify corruption or links between political officials. And even some of the documents already have, and I am sure that Mr Kos, who is very aware of his work, will already initiate appropriate procedures before the law enforcement authorities. Some of you tell us we're already accusing. We're not accusing you, but we're just gonna find out if that's the case. However, Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation states that the proposal or request for an investigation must include a request for a parliamentary inquiry, an indication of the reasons for the initiation of the parliamentary investigation and proposals for evidence to be carried out in a parliamentary investigation if such evidence is known. If there were no suspicions, if there were no reasons, then the parliamentary investigation would not be proposed at all. That is why we have done this to determine whether there has been customerism, corruption and the associated incentives for certain investments. Then some of you said, “Let’s take a look at all two hundred and ten congregations. ” Well, then, the investigation probably wouldn't have come anywhere. Why did we choose the Municipality of Ljubljana? As the last month of the call for proposals saw information that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipality of Ljubljana were to settle financial claims that the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, on behalf of the municipality, was to establish unilaterally to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this apartment. It should be noted, however, that the Municipality of Ljubljana, together with three other municipalities, has initiated an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, of 4. Ten. 2007 has not repealed any provision and there is no legal basis for establishing a financial claim to the Government. Of course, Mr Jankovic still says that something was taken from him and that he wants it back. Therefore, 16 members of the coalition have also tabled an amendment to the balance when you wanted to give him this €33.5 million, and we are now looking for another option to give him this. However, the Constitutional Court did not find that anything had been taken from him, that is, not him, the Municipality of Ljubljana, and therefore the action against the State is probably not in place. As far as I know, no such operation takes place with any other congregation, where we would settle in some way, something was given to municipalities past the Law on Local Self-Government. Moreover, the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana has already met with Minister Svetlik, Miklavic, Mrs. Shirca, Mr. Križanič, Gregor Golobic, who is expecting the rest after the new year. He wrote them a number of requests, what he expected of them, in which areas they could participate, while the other two hundred and nine congregations did not receive such a visit from government representatives. However, it was not necessary to continue with the practice that began in the previous term, namely in the mandate of the Janša government, when the government went to the municipalities, when it went to the field, when it visited the regions and on the ground became aware of the problems, because the problems of dwellings for young families are not only in Ljubljana, but in Ljubljana we obviously want to help someone else. A colleague from Zares said that it was an unreasonable and inappropriate parliamentary investigation, with the entire previous mandate pointing out the most loudly the difficulties in building the Oncology Institute. We have even had, twice, an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee on its initiative. Also a visit to the Oncology Institute twice, at her initiative. But we do know that only Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic has cashed in bank guarantees. None of the ministers had previously succeeded or had ever put any of the most important builders in this country on the real ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Investigative committees are also in line with my experience, which I have some, always a good business, but not for MPs who are investigating, but are a good business for taxpayers. If you want to confess or you don't want to. I, when I observe your unrest in today's investigative commission, am sure that there will be a number of things here that are expressed as suspicions that need to be proved, or to disprove the suspicion that they will be open, proven and spoiled. Despite the fact that all the institutions that you have under control will fight with all the forces, with all the claws, anything will open up and show itself. Of course, this is about some of the neurological points that you have for years and years in possession, from which also the budgets of some of the parties from which successful electoral campaigns are financed, etc. I understand your unrest. I understand him, I completely understand him. Here, some of the icons of this regime are covered in this investigation, if I may say so. Some financial moguls from the background, which, while very skillfully maneuvering, engage with flossules, trigger demagogies, point fingers, receive a thief, others, etc., but investigative commissions are a classic institution of parliamentary investigations because they are usually, even if they do not end, effective. I believe that at the end of this term you will do just as you did at the end of the 2000 mandate, when the same association was together, because you prevented the receipt of reports made on the commissions where it would unfold, from further exposing all these dirty backgrounds of business that some have allowed and are going to do, whether there have been abuses here, blackmail, false calls, or whether there has been a connection between individuals and this practice - the hand washes away, helped themselves, with the generous help of politics, I have no doubt. It would not be possible for some young sons of icons of your regime to be so fabulously rich. I allow them to be so wonderfully rich if they're intellectually on Bill Gates' level. But it seems to me that the teaching system, the educational system at the time of their schooling, did not find out through high school and college that even these fabulously rich young sons helped themselves with some means to formalize that did not affect responsible people. And if they were such brilliant geniuses, this teaching system of ours, which Golobič assured them yesterday that it was excellent to do excellent tests, would also show them in the form of formal statements. However, because they are not so wonderful, they are skilled in other fields. Maybe we'd be great students and graduates if we had a college for corruption. But maybe we could even teach at the U.S.U.U. But luckily there is no such college, we are still fighting formally against corruption in this country, even though it has strong political helpers. When the predecessor spoke about the transactions relating to the budget of the State in the Municipality of Ljubljana. How extraordinary is the power of this lever has been seen in this House at the time of the adoption of the budget rebalancing. It is not enough to buy land by association, and it is cheap to change the destination of land and all this to make profit as high as possible, then to buy the municipalities or ministries from dedicated builders, in Ljubljana there is a huge amount of this "south" of the construction lobby, which has support in the ruling types. But that's not enough. Now that the economic crisis has come and a number of people have previously "over the thumb" rented credit, probably without insurance and so on, but it has to be returned, there is a need for government Members to make a public statement in the budget, "it is necessary to give the Ljubljana municipality €33.5 million from the defence budget for the purchase of housing in Ljubljana," so that from the real estate speculators who are well-written with these institutions they can buy housing. That they will not suffer, but suffer the state budget and defence power of the country and the security of Slovenian soldiers. You have unscrupulously signed, 17 Members, under that. It's so far gone. I've been frayed myself by not even trying to hide who's in power anymore and what they have to do for past credits. And there was little to lose the fully sought-after military budget of EUR 33 million, so that the Ljubljana mayor could cover his aspirations and buy the apartments, as he was probably promised that the state would already make sure that the expensive money would be sold so that market laws would not work and so on. Of course, we need to take this investigation seriously. These things, these odd jobs, not to use worse terms, are so much so that the country was almost bankrupt. And since all support is at the top of the line, you think it's a big deal if an investigative commission is set up, because then it's spreading like a cancer wound. There was a situation where powerful people in companies received loans without being covered by banks. But a regular citizen can't get it, not for bread and milk, if I say so. And, gentlemen, people are sick. We have an extremely serious situation. Gorenje happened. Gorenje strike is Litostrov 21st century, with the same consequences. And it's a good thing you're aware of them. At that time, people demanded democracy and labour rights, today demanding equal status or that their work was paid. They made it very clear that they were no longer represented by the regime's unions, that they represented the tycoons, that they were meeting with the authorities, and that such trade unions no longer have anything to represent, because they were involved in business and often protected owners, worked for owners, and, on the outside, they showed themselves as labour rights protectors through the regime and the system. I'm afraid of these consequences, I admit. If you act like this, then these riots and this rebellion and the anger and hopelessness of the laborers will increase every day. There must have been millions and millions of euros of spent budget money in Ljubljana, which went for luxury and for the wealth of some of the so-called geniuses, who then show that they have come to money because of their abilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to participate actively in the investigative commission, at least those who can say something with a calm conscience. I know there's a lot of them among you. I am concerned that in some cases in the past, which have been so valuable that you have to remove yourself from those who, from the background, bombard our democracy with the power of capital, bombard the transparency of our society, bomb the development potential of our society. Cut the cord with these people. Work here for the benefit and well-being of the country and the people who are in great distress today. We reduce this hardship by also showing by the signal of the commission of inquiry: stop, end. Even in these construction works, where extraordinary sums flow into private pockets, a cut must be made. I hope some of you are able to defend him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say something to my colleague Kontić when he said that we would like to have everyone in the coalition as chairman of a committee or commission. I must point out that in our parliamentary group we have only one chairman of the committee from the very beginning and also from this committee, if we do not make a proposal for a member, we will not give it because we are all in the parliamentary group full of other problems and it will be easy to get a candidate as a member, not as a president, so that there will be no confusion. If I go to today's darkness. I personally did not sign this request for an investigation, the only one in the parliamentary group. I also agree that if there are any irregularities, I would like them not to exist in the past, but if there are, they should be shown with a finger or give them a name and surname. However, I did not sign mainly because I believe that at least what it is, we should start to discuss intensively the responsibility of those responsible for not having any procedures prepared, no projects for the continuation and state infrastructure of all kinds and other state investments. There will be no disagreement, not just in this term. Even in the previous or previous term, that I will not get as much as the last time we say Savinjani, "shut in the head" when I said similarly at the Studio at the age of seventeen, but I was immediately irritated by some, if what is now, we have just come, the responsibility is from before, the investments are not prepared from before. However, after all, every government, every coalition must continue to work on projects. And this coalition. It's been a year since the election, I believe, yesterday, and it would have been these procedures, even if something was wrong before, I believe it was that things weren't going to work out. We have the case of the Markovac tunnel, and it's not the subject of this investigation, but just in case it's a matter of state investment, it's about construction companies that are constantly being mentioned, and they've been, I don't know, 3, 4 years in the delivery process. And that, of course, is also our fault, and so are we, who are responsible if we have possibly written the law and any changes to the law on public procurement. There must be some kind of mistake. He's probably the only one who doesn't have one, or one of those fellow Rogers who used to say that luckily for SLS and I don't know who's not in Ljubljana City. It's probably not Rose's fault, but he wasn't in the National Assembly and his original primary party. I'd say good luck for him. As we say, there must be something wrong with this marriage, and it is our responsibility. Especially those who have already lost quite a few hairs in this House. As far as construction companies are concerned, I'm also in favour of clearing things up. I wish there was nothing wrong with it, because I come from this "fair." However, I have always held the view that construction companies are the ones fighting for business, legitimately with all legal means. However, the contracting authority shall be responsible for the fact that individual investments are carried out in accordance with the law, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the timetable, the financial plan and so on. And there's something I need to ask you. Other companies have been mentioned several times as well as what can be expected. What I said before is that we do not have ready-made projects at the level of the country, of all kinds. In construction companies, but not only construction companies, including those directly connected, and this is practically half of Slovenia. It is likely that there will be no such drastic issues as those of Gorenje and Mura, which we now have in our mouths all because many foreign workers are employed in construction companies. They'll be at your place of work first. Somehow this won't be known to us in the first phase. However, it will be known that there will be no work for co-operatives and that the state budget will not receive adequate money. Again, we are in the midst of the consequences, not just the direct ones with some direct strike or interruptions or whatever. I'll get it over with. As I say, I also wish that this commission all those things that have been wrong, where it is political and other responsibility to find them, to point to possible corruption. I wish the Commission a lot of success. As I said, we will not run from our parliamentary group for President, nor will we run for Vice-President of the Commission. I also doubt that I will be able to convince one of my colleagues that he will be a member of the Commission due to other burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For a little while. I read this request for an investigative commission. I have to be honest with you, I have no particular opinion of this request. As I can read in summary, I think there will be another institution of the National Assembly, and this is an investigative commission, abused or used for the purposes of some local political struggles. I don't think that's good. Apparently, some people feel that the lack of a concept in Ljubljana about what and how it can be replaced by trying to get on the pranger of one or more people in this Ljubljana, one way or another, with greater or less success, with greater or less approval; far away from me being a Jankovic fan - not at all; I am engaged in this city. I think it would be significantly better for those who propose to develop their own concepts and views on Ljubljana to present them so that we can see them in Ljubljana, I too am Ljubljana. And we'd have more than that. The commission of inquiry will throw some mud at either one, but probably those who throw this mud will not remain completely unmarked. I don't think that's good for the National Assembly, either. But the decision is legitimate, the decision is yours, and it will be made. But there is one problem that I would like to draw attention to and point out again when we talk about local self - government, the congregations, and the city. I have to remind some again that it is understood - not all of them, of some genuine and real hatred of Ljubljana, to the capital. This is also the case with those who are from the congregations that directly surround Ljubljana. I must say that big cities sometimes do trigger a negative response, but yet this emphasis on swallowing, wealth and I do not know what everything that is supposed to be concentrated in Ljubljana is empirically unrealistic, unrealistic, unrealistic and distorted. That is why it seems to me that this is certainly damaging to our debate, and above all it bothers me to think that if we tame Ljubljana, we will limit Ljubljana, if we shorten it, we will also restrict Maribor, Celje, Novo Gorica, to make it better for those who are supposed to be less developed. He won't. Everywhere around the world, cities have proved to be the driving force behind urban and regional development. And if these cities aren't there's no development. That's the way it is, whether you want it or not. That is why I think it is very bad that the message comes too often from the National Assembly, what I say is an anti-urban policy message, and that this is a message they cannot accept not only in Ljubljana but also in other cities. And I hope that there will be another voice in the National Assembly. In history, there was a lot of ideas about how to move cities, that was immediately after the Russian revolution, that we were not talking about what was happening in Southeast Asia, even Cambodia, when cities had to be relocated, literally physically, and nowhere did this end well. This attack on cities, the attack on what cities mean, of course, is bad. I warn you, this is not good for the countryside either. I certainly don't believe it. I have to say, this investigation is going to bring something. If he does, I'll be pleasantly surprised, but I don't think we should be using him primarily to fight at the local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you. [[The ad in the hall.]] I didn't hear you called. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u140	Mr President, although this is a respected President, we should remind him that these debates should be interpreted as an attack on cities, as an attack on the capital, linking this to even the half-way issues of the relocation of the capital and all of this - Mr President, this is under the reputation of the President of Parliament. Therefore, Mr President, even if it is the President of Parliament, we should warn him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u141	Just a moment, Mr. Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u142	We should warn him he's gone. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u143	Mr Jerovšek was appointed, but I ignored it. So let him speak in terms of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u144	Mr President Gantar, you want to prevent in some way the President's authority from asking where the big millions of money went. Why there were 33 million additional requests in the budget earlier, and you have also signed in some stage. Ask yourself, ‘ How did they affect you? ’ This is an important question at this point - why it is already a fully exploited Ministry of Defence, which has state-of-the-art functions in each country, if there is no other country, but it is necessary to take Jankovič's needs there. And this is your call and warning, as you've just staged it, I must say, I wasn't expecting it, but you're going to do the right thing. Of course, I also expect the authority of the President of Parliament to push for the fight against irregularities, corruption, the theft of budgetary resources and state money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u145	Mr Jerovšek, time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u147	Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u148	Procedurally, that's all I'd say is that I think it's okay that you've allowed Mr Jerovsk [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u149	Mr. Anderlich, please shut up!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u150	that you gave Mr Jerovsk a replica, because if he recognized himself in my words, he has the right to a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, you will have your word when I give it to you. Now she has the word, Mrs. Jeraiev. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Something was said about who we're putting here on the pranger. One year, or before the previous elections, someone was actually in a pranger, and no one was defending him. Local self-government is truly independent in its work and Ljubljana is the capital, including my capital, not only yours. And I have nothing against Ljubljana or against the Ljubljanaians, and I am in favour of developing it to work successfully, but with some of their mayor's actions she is deprived of any possible more important project for the Ljubljana people. And we wanted to, or we're putting into an investigation the purchase of apartments because things are still going on or the government is talking to the mayor of the city about how to settle the apartments, so with the Capital Act, it's going to give him 16 million euros, with the settlement of the apartments of 33 million, then it's going to transfer to it 87 empty apartments, which are owned by the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs. That's what Mr. Jankovic is talking about. We didn't make that up. This is because he was allegedly deprived of 60 million during the previous government. I said that the Constitutional Court, to which Mr Jankovic and three other mayors complained in this regard, demanded that they determine whether this was in accordance with the Constitution or not. And the Constitutional Court in its decision did not find anything incompatible with the Constitution. In short, it found that no funds had been taken from Mr Jankovic or the Municipality of Ljubljana, so it was too much for the Government to talk to him about how it would give him these funds. Then we can ask ourselves if you do not respect the Constitutional Court's decision, which you constantly read to us. And who is in charge of this story can be seen from the members that we can read every day when Mr Jankovič proposes to the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to withdraw both sides from each other's claims, but if the country moves to MOL free of charge the apartments it would buy from the Republic Housing Fund, if it gets the budget back through empty apartments, through the capital law - and Mr Jankovic has a second request in this regard, as he says. He didn't want to say. He will say when the government decides who will speak to him at all - in the previous term we know that it was the Ministry of Public Administration. In any case, the Government does not need an official negotiator with the municipal municipality, because apparently all ministers go to the mayor of the Ljubljana Municipality and also to all ministries where it lays conditions. Even this is discussed - Mr Jankovic agreed with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to extend the application to the MOL's request for home concessions for older citizens. For MOL, the call will be repeated, according to the mayor's words, they agreed not to extend the deadline for the application due to other municipalities. And because the Government has a different attitude towards the Municipality of Ljubljana as to the other municipalities, which is normal if it is for the development of Ljubljana, but not if in this way someone exercises his will and his stubbornness and tells us that something has been taken from the municipality, even though the Constitutional Court once again said that nothing has been taken from him. And we know that we are always very solidarity, but in this case we do not want to be solidarity with the less developed municipalities, the suburban municipalities, which have invested a lot in Ljubljana, but are now not interested in Ljubljana or their mayor anymore. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! It is obvious that the Slovenian public is extremely sensitive, especially to the irregularities that are taking place in the field of construction. The construction profession and everything related to construction today is in a difficult situation. Therefore, our efforts should also be made in this direction in order to establish appropriate legislation in order for the state to invest also in public investment in the area of construction. This would also help to improve the situation in construction, which is currently in a catastrophic bad situation: for the first time due to the economic and financial crisis, and for the second time probably also due to the negligence that is taking place in this building lobby. The Slovenian public is so much more sensitive when they feel these construction lobbyes in their pocket. It was not the Slovenian Democratic Party and it was not the coalition that signed this request for a parliamentary inquiry that we began to think deeply about. It was the Slovenian public. This was the first to be considered publicly by our media. Just remember last year, towards the end of last year, when they began to find out what happened at the Municipality of Ljubljana when buying 119 apartments, with garages, etc., etc. This is part of the story in this area covered by the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry. And the evidence that the request for a parliamentary inquiry is meaningless, meaningless, does not have the right content or even is not based on certain legal assumptions. You know, people will resent this, because we are the ones that have adopted and are still adopting legislation and where the request for a parliamentary inquiry is based on legal provisions; constitutionally, on a legal provision that was adopted in 1993 and a few years later. But maybe today is a different time, and you have all the mechanisms in your hands, so in the coalition, to change these contents. Until, of course, this has been changed, the opposition is the one who will act in accordance with the applicable legislation in this area. I will repeat the parliamentary inquiry, it has no purpose and no purpose, nor does it have the power to identify criminal and material responsibility. This should be done by those whom we have made possible by the legislation adopted in the National Assembly. But it is up to us, respected and respected, to intervene in those areas where the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and powers is determined. And why would the National Assembly, despite having all the mechanisms, all the legal bases, not do so if the Slovenian public had warned us of this, as I originally started? We are therefore obliged to react and nothing bad about this parliamentary investigation request in this area follows. It is, of course, another coincidence that there are many irregularities in this story in our capital, perhaps this is Mayor Jankovic or whoever he is. Unfortunately at this time, during his term of office, this is happening in connection with kleintalism, as we say in the political jargon, that is to say in the related companies that are within the joint activity of a company, and we cannot escape and say anything else. However, let me remind you of one important body that should oversee this in the Republic of Slovenia, and unfortunately it does not. The Commission, under the Anti-Corruption Act, which we have as a singing body, is always doing something other than what it should have done. And that is why we Members and Members are once again faced with the fact that in some way we are doing our work because this body has not done its work as it should; because it is politically biased and works for a narrow political benefit, not for the benefit of citizens and citizens, which is its basic function. It is precisely the President of the Commission, under the Anti-Corruption Act, that he has instructed us to improve the role of the supervisory authority, since the National Assembly has the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act, which is the only authorised authority to oversee the work of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act. When we went to change the rules of procedure of the National Assembly Commission, it broke down. This is in such a way that, despite the validity of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Commission, under the Anti-Corruption Act, addressed the proposal to the Constitutional Court where, by chance, today the Constitutional Court, at its 25th meeting under item 17, is considering giving an assessment and an initiative on the constitutionality and legality of the rules of procedure adopted by Members and Members on our Commission. See what translation of the one who ordered us first suggested: let us change, supplement the rules of procedure so that you can improve your supervisory function, and unfortunately today in the Constitutional Court these provisions are laid down in a constitutional judgment. What delusions and coincidences! That is why I expect this Commission, which is entrusted with this task by the National Assembly, to assess this political linkage in order to improve the condition that is always and everywhere paid by those who are least guilty, i.e., users of various apartments, garages, medical facilities, hospitals and so on. Here is the basic guide and our starting point to prevent us from warning that those who intend to do so should not do so at the expense of Slovenian citizens and citizens, because the situation is extremely serious and critical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Mr. Tiny? He's not here. Mr. Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. You're setting up an investigative commission. Many wonder what some will do. Of course they will! Given that you are looking for political responsibility, of course, the spoils will be purely political and nothing more. You're creating a platform on which you're going to put your half-truths, your insinuations, your webs, your questions about what this business is in 2004 and the action of 2009, etc. For you are aware that ten times the lie is spoken, and eventually it becomes the truth. And that's what Mr Marinic said, which he realized earlier, was already being addressed by our media. Of course, your media, which will continue to stand by you, don't worry. In doing so, of course, you will point to people who have nothing to do with some of the things that really cause suffering. And what do these people get out of it? Nothing. An added anger. You're not helping them, but you're helping your client's ratings and nothing more. There are irregularities, many of them, even during this time of power, former, formerly. They always are. However, criminal responsibility is the one to come to. Let the people be judged if they're guilty. We have the D.A., we have Barbara Brezigar to do what's necessary, but she can start if there's still time, with Dom Zavrl and his business at the Oncology Institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to or explain one point that was specifically raised by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem earlier this morning or at the beginning of this agenda item, which showed what is the situation with regard to the University of Primorska and the payment of the alleged number of millions of euros to be settled by this government, but the previous one is not, and so on. Of course, she was completely delusional, just as she knows. The truth of that is next. Lucija Čok - I think that once a member of the LDS, if I am not mistaken - who was appointed Rector of the University of Primorska, of course an autonomous and independent political person, head of the autonomous and independent University of Primorska, has decided autonomously and independently and paid an autonomous and independent €4 million over all possible investments. I think that's why it's also in criminal proceedings, at least that's how it was traced to the media. Of course, the government of Janez Janša did not agree that the autonomous and independent use of state money would also pay for it. And so during the time of the government's mandate, Janez Janša, this money was never transferred to the University of Primorsk, which is also right. Because if we did what she did, then it is likely that all the autonomous and independent institutions of this country, which we have very large, autonomously and independently used state money, governments, such or otherwise, would be able to independently and independently transfer this money. What happened during the time of this government is logical, because this government has independently and independently directed this money to the University of Primorska. Whether or not there is any connection with companies associated with Mr Golobic or not, I do not know; this will be demonstrated by this investigation, in any event. However, it seems important to me to stress that from what Mrs Orazmova has made a nice story about this government and the ugly about the previous government, this impression needs to be corrected and put on the real ground. This is also my contribution to this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u160	Your Honor! It is clear that the debate thus set out on the act of appointing a parliamentary inquiry to establish political responsibility is, in fact, depressed and should be amended in the Rules of Procedure. I have no qualms that an investigation should be ordered if there is a request. However, to discuss widely what anyone thought about anything, this debate does not apply practically in any way to the content of the proposed investigation, but it is, of course, what does not happen to Parliament. But no matter what. As a matter of fact, the investigation will be determined, it has to be done. Today you called for us to change the rules of procedure and to end the investigative commissions. You have forgotten that we have the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and it is only the result of regulation in the Rules of Procedure and so on. Well, there's something going on. It is clear that this is again an investigation that would like to dissuade the debate on the balance sheet in the past, because finally, on the day of all the locusts in Intereuropa, in Luka Koper, in Hit, Domen Zavrl has already confessed. Look, it says here that you would like to investigate the Pediatrics Clinic project, the Oncology Institute project, and say something about it, but you don't write anywhere, because you already know, you know, who was the one who got so much and so much 100,000 for an alleged consulting, but it's from the same company that you now attribute to doing business with President Zares - Macro 5 or whatever it's called. But this one was directing Domna Zavrilla from a project that was supposed to be run by a minister so brightly and exemplaryly, and before that, by a minister! But there's not a word about it, believe me, about this paper you wrote, and it's a long way off! Political link – directly with the previous government, with the previous minister, the minister, with those who signed that I did not speak further. You can't possibly think seriously about any policy involvement investigation if on the one hand you stop the investigation into the 8x8 purchase irregularities, where 278 million euros went, by getting 25 unarmed, 50 unarmed, and the others don't - prohibit the investigation! Today you can read in the media, 340 million - one friend, 3.5 million - another friend, up to 10 million will be sued by an intermediary in Kolesnik society, and some others. By chance, they and Zagozno were once in office in the same government district, in the same ministry where these supplies of military equipment took place 15 years and more ago. Just by accident. But I don't care! There will already be law enforcement authorities, even though you have managed to put some time under the counter - but not Mr. Gorenak? And also Mrs Brezigareva and they all gave it, it's been a year and a half, or I don't know how long it's been for us to point a finger at the end of the day, which I don't know what. And you write that you want to investigate why actions are different from predictions, from political promises when he went to the elections. Is it true - and it is right to deal with the political responsibility for not keeping the promise. But that's what you do in elections. However, when it comes to any type of criminal act or any act that is in conflict with the law, it is known that responsibility is inevitable. I have nothing against the parliamentary investigation - any, but today there was already a defence law, the law very clearly states, and this was also intended to introduce a parliamentary inquiry to establish responsibility for that political function holder who is at that time in a position with powers and, on the other hand, provides some benefits to people, groups or whatever. But here you are complicated in this thing, which has a long title, a whole series of things, from the University of the Sea, to the Pediatric Clinic, to the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is simply done in such a way that nothing will be done. I really don't know why you didn't write at the Pediatrics Clinic or at these investments in health care: "Because Macro 5 has concluded an advisory agreement with Domna Zavrl, we demand that it be determined who was in the back that ordered this advisory contract to be concluded." That would be the right way, I think. And we would have come to that, but it wouldn't be right again, because it's from the previous term. Because those ministers, those responsible for this, are no longer in office. That is why the parliamentary inquiry is intended - in only one part you have hit, but I think you have also missed talking about the connection of events at the University of the Sea, where it would be assumed that something happened at the beginning of this mandate. But everything else is pushed from the top down. As some debaters could understand, it reminds me of the cultural revolution in China, where they say: people have warned us. People, come to us, tell us which neighbor stole the chicken, who overcooked that sausage he had on the stove and smells like us, we're gonna punish him. This is contrary to our morals, our views and so on. I listened to these discussions today. Also, Mr Zorn, if you speak the language, this is the best mirror for you, definitely giving everyone morals and I don't know what kind of science we have to act like, how we all don't know what kind of language we have, but showing our language in Parliament is something I have experienced for the first time in 20 years. All right. Your mirror. I have no objection whatsoever to disagree because I am a legalist and a legitimate person to order this investigation. If it is possible that I will take over the 11th or 12th committee or committee in the National Assembly, I will gladly go inside to listen to all these bistros who will be there on the day if there is no one else - I hope so. But as long as you're clear today - for at least two, three things, including 8X8 - you're still trying to blur out how it was right, but the entire world public, especially the Slovenian public, is cutting us down because we can't clear up some of the things that those who took the money have already said they picked it up, then it's very hard to expect that this commission will achieve any result in the last 15, 20 years, with some of them already set up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. You probably did - you mentioned me; you also mentioned so many people that I did not follow. I believe you have made a mistake, Mr Anderlich, or you will be able to explain further. You mentioned my name about putting something under the table, and you confused me and Mrs. Brezigar. Let me tell you, I've never worked in justice. I was never employed in the D.A.'s office, but I was employed in operational work until 1989. If you can find a case, just bring it to Parliament on the committee responsible. As for the second part, perhaps only this: if you have thought about examining the report of the prosecution organisation, this report has been studied for three weeks by your coalition colleague Zalokar Orzmova, who has taken so long to study Mrs Brezigar's answers. So I don't know what you were thinking. You'll probably have a chance to say this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Zorn also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u165	Mr. Zorn has the replica. Please, Mr. Zorn, what are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. First of all, I would suggest that Mr Anderlich shut up when he has no words. I don't even think it's happening all the time, screaming across the line, screaming all the time. And in the Rules of Procedure, where he has comments on what should be in the Rules of Procedure, he would make a special provision that Members who do not have a word should not scream all the way through the Chamber, and that he would mark with a star as a warning, as is the case with all the mandates of Mr Anderlič. That's the first thing. Second thing. But since he was already pulling my tongue - because he said "lingual" - I had a language outside because of its impetuousness when I listened to him, how he drew on any language he could see in the area, so that his inexorable speech error, and its failures, in any way, would lead to the end. For he will never hold fast to the darkness. He will never be, and he will never end it. So I would suggest, please, that these things are a little more serious - I think about Anderlich - and that he also adheres to the rules of procedure and his own language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Yuri? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u168	Mr President, I protest that we are in breach of the rules of procedure. As far as I am aware, the Member has the right to a replica if he has already participated in the debate. So I ask: Was this move correct from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure or did you allow yourself to make a mistake?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u169	Mr Zorn was obviously misunderstood when opening his mouth. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! Most of the cases concerning the Commission of Inquiry, which we are considering today or the order of the Commission of Inquiry, have already been mentioned, both by the applicants and the SDS Group of Members in the position. However, I would like to add the following. Previously, one of the representatives of the newly established party, Zares, who is running a new policy, can see this through actions, saying how strange things happen in other municipalities by mayors. But what's interesting is that he didn't give any evidence, he didn't have any suspicions about it, but he said that's what evil languages say. Thus, the wicked languages are now those that are the most reliable foundation that we can discuss in the National Assembly. I have also heard that the evil languages say that representatives from the Municipality of Ljubljana are given fees for the representation of the Municipality of Ljubljana. I don't know, maybe. That's what the representative of Zares said earlier. In short, just by operating on names, mud in this country has become something simple, and sometimes I am ashamed of the coalition’s use of such methods. We could have seen this before the national elections when, by the way, you and your fellow Prime Minister, now the president of the most powerful SDS party, and you never presented any evidence. We don't have it today. We therefore have before us an act to appoint an investigative commission for the area of so-called high-rise buildings. About a month ago, in the National Assembly, we talked about the appointment of a parliamentary commission in relation to road lobbying, about political negotiations, and we can certainly draw interesting parallels with both commissions, because the objective of the two committees is not only similar, but the same. The aim is to determine the responsibility of those who, through manipulations, have filled their pockets at the expense of taxpayers or are through some clienteleistic connections, which, in particular, in this case, these investigative commissions, are reflected in the relation of the Ljubljana Municipality of Ljubljana - a policy, such and different, and individual companies that, if possible, are still owned by the immediate family members of the mayor of the Ljubljana municipality and thus acquire businesses. If anything's clientistic, then that's it! And I seriously see no reason why in the coalition you are always so scrupulously defending those who are more than obviously manipulating Slovenian citizens. Here we should take a serious look at ourselves and imagine what you're doing, even in today's situation, when we know it's not pink and we've got big problems. Especially in the area of the social crisis of people, which is also large and distressing. In any event, this Commission of Inquiry is involved in the investigation of projects that have arisen during the period of all governments. And to say that we're only going to investigate some because we don't like it, especially me, because I've been in politics for so long and probably have a lot of connections, I'm being clientistic and I don't know what else. That's ridiculous! All these constructions, so-called high buildings, took place, were being built in all governments, even during the previous government, and it is right to review these transactions in a transparent, economic manner. So no one will be exempted from this investigation, regardless of political colour. I believe that you have never been used to looking things in the eye and being evaluated objectively, but this commission of inquiry will also work for this purpose. The purpose of this Commission of Inquiry is therefore to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who participated in the preparation and implementation of investments financed from the State budget. I am certainly in favour of revealing the intransparency of business and of revealing it further, regardless of which political colour someone belongs to. No matter what! I think that in this Slovenian space it is necessary to put an end to these matters once. And we're constantly accusing ourselves of who did something, what should be the point, is, where there's some suspicion that there's been a lack of transparency, to look at it -- instead of walking together and saying: it's right to step on your fingers like that, and then we all pull or pull politically at the end. And that's the big problem with this country. And as long as we act like this, we will have great problems in all areas, not just what we are dealing with today. I am certainly in favour of seeing whether all these high-end works have actually respected those basic, fundamental principles of public finance management. Therefore, whether the principle of economy has been met, or whether the principle of transparency, the principle of competitiveness, the principle of the public, the principle of control has been met. Only when we can figure that out when we drop the suspicions will we know that the deal was made transparent. If the suspicions are proved to be justified, of course the procedure will have to go on as it should, and of course someone will have to answer for it. It's the responsibility that is sometimes, I'll say that in this country, it's not exactly for her who's responsible. But if we are already going to a European level, if we belong to European nations, then in certain matters we must also take responsibility or know how to take responsibility. It is certainly necessary to get answers to these questions if everything was in accordance with the principles, because the Slovenian public, Slovenia certainly deserves this, even today, when we are in a situation where people on the one hand are in extremely severe social distress, and on the other hand, there are obviously some transactions under the table at the expense of family ties, at the expense of various lobbyes, and at the expense of this, they are also served with greasyness. I'm in charge of this parliamentary investigation. I hope it points to responsibility, or rejects the suspicions that we have recorded within the reference of this commission of inquiry. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I admit that this Parliament is very fascinating to me, especially because of some causal connections and ties that are already bordering on mysticism. This is how we are today discussing the start of the work of the new investigative commission, which is no coincidence if we consider yesterday's debate. Yesterday's debate was largely intrusive on some word lynching at the expense of judges and the judiciary. Clearly, some Members have the pleasure of the hypothesis in order to replace the judges, the judiciary. That's nice, that's wonderful. Why would we pay the judges a salary if we could do their work: one commission of inquiry every week, one criminalisation - judges and the judiciary need no authority every week. We're everything. And now we are faced with a new temptation, before a new commission, where everyone is spending some data and not aware that today in these debates they have shown so ignorance that - I do not understand how and on what basis this commission will operate. Look, I'm gonna stop at one object that's supposed to be the object of this investigation, or research or case studies, to determine the political responsibility of someone or something. This is a question of upgrading, rebuilding some of Armerie's facilities, Foresterie at the University of Primorska. I am very grateful to Mr Gorenak, Mr Gorenak has proved in his debate that he has no "mild connection" to this issue. He was talking about media reports where it is best to see that Mrs Lucija Čok is still the subject of judicial proceedings or investigations or something like that. Here. A concrete example of Mr Gorenak not knowing anything about this and of using certain evil languages or certain alleged media reports, apparently very old ones. Because if I were to update myself and keep myself informed, I would know exactly that all the charges against Dr. Lucia Chok were dropped. Dropped in the first phase, either with the anti-corruption commission, or with the prosecutor. And look, it's very interesting! When the prosecutor rejected this because of the absence of a criminal offence, due to the absence of elements for the continuation of the proceedings, he received a fine from Ljubljana. So guess who gave it to him. Political trade! The political vicious circle was evident, then the aim was to prevent the University of Primorska from coming to life in order for the University of Primorska to receive those two key buildings, namely Armenia and Foresteria in a respected corruption market, and to produce a story that would eventually lead to the privatisation of those two buildings or to the offer of those two buildings to political clients of the then government. And that's what's been happening all the time. Of course, Mr Gorenak does not know what was really going on. I'm gonna tell him now. This is a great opportunity. In December 2006, Armeria and Forresteria were finally renovated. At that time, the legislation in force and the regulation in force allows investors or contracting entities to draw the necessary funds from the TRP - from the basic development programmes - or with the consent of the Minister. On 1 January 2007, Minister Zupan amended the regulation and retroactively annulled this possibility and demanded only the Minister's exclusive consent after the story had already been wrapped up. Both facilities were renovated, with the knowledge of the government, as government representatives were constantly present on the board of directors and were thoroughly informed of all procedures and assessments as well as of the increase in the cost of rebuilding and upgrading the facility at the university. In fact, there was a higher price, as some key findings of an archaeological character, historical, cultural character, as well as an increase in capacity for new needs of an emerging and evolving university occurred at that time. In contrast, the government was informed. But what did she want to accomplish? She wanted to achieve exactly what I said at the beginning - to prevent this project from being completed, to enable the purchase, sale, privatisation against the public interest of two important historical buildings of Kopra, which were donated by the Municipality of Koper to the University for this purpose. But instead, the intentions changed because before, Minister Zupan, then Minister Kucler Dolinar, of course, wanted to criminalize leadership - they failed. Prosecutors, judges and anti-corruption commissions have dropped all these charges, Mr Gorenak. You don't know that. I'm informing you now. They rejected all these lawsuits and charges, found that there was no illegal or illegal conduct by Dr. Lucia Chok, and then they wanted to strangle the University of Primorsk in order to avoid normalization of the situation. The normalisation of the situation came only after the government changed and all the Members here from Primorska were pressured and demanded that this government finally carry out the project to the end. And that was the wish of the students, the academics, the Kopercans, the Primors. It was a desire of public interest that you probably don't know, because your wish was only to meet your clients. We stopped it. This government has prevented this and now you would like to criminalise those who have defended and ensured public interest. This is what is happening in this House. I don't know if it's mystical, but it's very interesting and fascinating. How you reverse the actions, how you managed something that you cooked - for so many years you prevented the use of the guarantee law. There is evidence and this evidence has already been presented to the prosecution, the anti-corruption committee, that evidence exists. That's when you directed the University of Primorska to foreign banks. You did not want the guarantee to be taken and that the hole would be restored on the normal and legal way home, and your minister, Mr Bajuk, then advised them to turn to the World Banks for credit and to prevent the World Banks from even responding to the University of Primorska. The damage that has occurred is EUR 600,000 in interest outstanding, and I hope that this Commission will be a wonderful opportunity to identify all these responsibilities. I hope that we will see Mr Zupan, Mrs Kucler Dolinar and all those who assisted them in sabotaging the normalisation of the University of Primorska. It's a wonderful opportunity. I hope to be a member of this committee, because I have - as an ex-journalist who has dealt with this subject - such material that it will be quite interesting. It's gonna be a party. A true coastal "fest" when everything comes in! Look, there's a lot to talk about. We thought the story was over, moving on. No, you opened Pandora's box! Wonderful! And we'll have fun with you. Thank you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has been announced for the debate. [[Absent.]] Mr. Victory Jelinčič will not discuss it. Mr. Damian Perne. [[Absent.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, since the colleague discussed mud and mud, I must say that when she spoke about this side of Parliament, in my opinion, if we looked back a little bit only on public media for the last 16, 17 years, more mud and mud from citizens and citizens of Slovenia, even an individual, as was said during this period by the most present opposition party, led by its President, would not be found on this side. It's not a problem if someone falls into the mud. The problem is, you can't get out of it because of this mud. Here's the problem. Therefore, when I speak of this investigative committee, I will point out once again: very seriously earlier in the introduction, when I spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group, I thought, when I said, maybe this investigative commission has the first chance of really reaching some conclusions and some indicators that could trigger further proceedings for the prosecutions and justice. For once again, in all this period until 1992, which is being investigated back in the city of Ljubljana, much has been done by important public functions in the city of Ljubljana and the country, including ministerial functions, including representatives of the parties of the initiators and those who propose this commission of inquiry. That's why maybe now we have a chance to get there, because that's what society is all about. When you talk about housing policy in Ljubljana, I need you again, including those living on the outskirts of Ljubljana in the third ring: it is nice to know little about the problem of social and non-profit housing that has been operating in Ljubljana since 1994. So this year he's 15 years old. On average, between 100 and 150 dwellings are provided through the housing fund each year, which is 4- to 5-fold less than the annual needs. And none of these dwellings shall be empty: when they are built, it shall be made straightway unto those that need it. But I have also warned you about the Republic Housing Fund, that from Postojna, Vipave, Ajdovščina - for all who are smart now here - there are many built-up apartments under much more favourable terms of credit and loans than Ljubljana or the Ljubljana Housing Fund and the Republic of the Housing Fund, but they do not give them to those who are entitled to it, to target groups, socially disadvantaged and young people, but they are placed on the market and sold under favourable conditions for other beneficiaries to do so - at least for which the Fund is justified and established - they should not have. I therefore reiterate and ask you to correct the material that is an official act that you have submitted to the National Assembly - and I have again heard from the applicants the incorrect information on the purchase of apartments in Celovské dvory in December 2008. Once again, I would like to point out that you have the wrong information in an official act, a document to be adopted by the National Assembly or confirmed. It's not 2,515 euros per square meter, it's 2,036 euros! 2,036 euros - I repeat! The square meter of the apartment area was 1,750 euros and parking spaces, 18,000 to 338, totalling 2,036 euros. And please correct this information, not the third time I've heard you repeat it all the time. Finally, I recommend that the initiators of this proposal listen to and read the magnetograms of some of their city councilors, including important SDS officials, who are responsible or take responsibility for housing policy within the city council and also discuss this in the city council. Above all, I would recommend to you the material of Mr Komišček, which I have obtained from myself because of the public discussions in the city world. It would be very interesting for you to read his thoughts, his proposals and his conclusions as well as those of this commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u176	Look, buddy, we're gonna be sitting together on an investigative committee, and we're gonna figure out at what price these apartments were bought, whether it was 2,515 euros per square meter, as I say, or as much as you said. It was published, Mr. Mayor didn't deny it, except we don't know how to calculate it. He said, however, how many square metres were bought, i.e. how many of these 119 non-profit apartments, what is the total area, 7,515 square meters, he paid €18.9 million for. It doesn't take much, we have a computer on our computer to help us and it can be calculated how much this square is. By the way, he bought parking spaces for 18,000 euros for everyone, a fellow from Zares, but he could get them for 6,000 if he had the money, and he didn't have it. While Mr. Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana is constantly telling us how good a merchant, politician, economist probably did not buy these things. That's what reporters find out, all those who have calculated to see what the prices are. By the way, there are 1,000 unsold dwellings in Ljubljana, a good economist might negotiate with someone else, but this is probably because the mayor of the municipality appears or some of them always have the same names. Thus at the moment when he from Vegrad buys apartments, Vegrad is very cheap for his company, his family business, whose director is really his son, builds a much more comfortable apartment on Vrhnika. But let's say that this is possible because Ljubljana and Vrhnika are a big difference, and there is probably not as bad a housing crisis as it seems in Ljubljana after the second obsession with garage houses built by the mayor. We also proposed an investigation because the same names always appear with Minister Golobic. Macro 5 was, by chance or not, at a similar time when they were working at the University of Primorska, they were also doing work in his house. Maybe by chance, we won't figure anything out, but I find it hard to believe that these things happen by accident. Our delegation also visited the University of Primorsk, including Mr Bohinc, on visits to the regions. At the time, he admitted that when the investment was actually irritable, because we are talking about the investment at the beginning of 5 units, and at the end of 15 or 10 that we should really get the Ministry's consent that they didn't get. I will not say now whether Minister Zupan was not ready for talks or perhaps Mr Bohinc and Mrs Chokova could not properly present these things - in any way. More expensive investments or changes in the financial investment plan were made without the Ministry's consent, which is the payer of this. And then they said yes and then you pay from your resources. However, he also presented to us that this is a problem, for sure, but we are not just talking about the fact that in our country the investments paid by the State, that is, the things we pay from the taxpayer's money, they are always abnormal, there are always some unforeseen costs, some unforeseen things that the investor or the one who prepared the matter could not predict in the beginning, and in the end the matter is even more expensive. Probably, if you were doing your own house, you would never agree that it's even more expensive in the end, because they found a whole bunch of things to do because they had a project, a plan, etc. And that's the problem! That is why we have proposed an investigative commission. The fact is, even if you tell us that we may have some problems with paediatric and oncology. We don't have any. Things have ended in our time. I'm worried that if the LDS and the company were still in control, we'd still have construction sites and construction pits and open cases, and that's how things happened. In 1993, they talked about the need to build a new paediatric, then the ministry informed them that they had missed a five-year plan to have the advantage of an oncological, neurological, eye clinic. Then a committee was set up for a new paediatric institution for the construction and fund, where money was collected. In short, all of this happened until 14. 20. In 1998, when the foundation stone was laid, the project-building documentation was obtained in December 1998, then there were changes, discharges - then the Janša government was nowhere to be found - and construction began in the spring of 2003. It should then be completed within a few years, of course due to various complications, including delays in the implementation of the grounds due to poor soil capacity, which, of course, was not foreseen again, there was a problem in this regard. In short, 16-year efforts have given birth to fruit and today we have a new pediatric clinic and right at this pediatric clinic, which is also likely to have ended sooner than it would have, the "i" peaked by the previous Minister of Health, Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, who for the first time, as I have already said, has cashed out the bank guarantee of the company that should have done things, but it is not, at the time agreed, in accordance with the signed contracts and, by the way, has been from the original 15 million or so - we do not remember since many years - the investment has increased to 70 million. That worries us how that's possible. If we say that some of the investments have been hit once, so they've doubled, everything else has happened here, and if the problem of those I don't know how many won by a miracle boy, we'll figure it out. But the times are such that the builders find that they have reserves, unfortunately in the past it has never been so. There's always been more, it's always been more expensive, it's always been more unpredictable costs, while malls -- let's say these are less demanding constructions -- are growing in two months. Worse than we said, it was at the Oncology Institute. You're reading to us the housing fund, how he did business. We did not write that we would deal only with the housing fund and what was happening in Ljubljana. If you look at our explanation, there's a lot of talk about, it says, how the fund did too much stuff. [[...]] Excuse me. So, we're talking about investigating the fund's work years ago. 14 years ago. We are not just talking about what has happened in Ljubljana since Ljubljana is Mayor Zoran Jankovic. In short, in 2006 the Ministry of Environment and Space audit found these irregularities. That's probably why something didn't happen before. But why did this ministry find out only during the time of our government but not before? Probably because Mr Owen was Vice President of the LDS. Probably some other gentleman. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u177	Mrs. Jeraiev has the floor. Please let her speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u178	And that's why, of course, these things weren't identified at the time. And we think it's right for him to look at these things. If the opposition were opposition then - it is said two years ago, when the Committee on Environment and Space - considered this, you would have already submitted an investigative commission, but, of course, in your interest, as I said at the outset, it is not to determine the political responsibility of your members, your vice-presidents and so on. I didn't mention anything about you, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u179	Mr. Anderlich, you didn't have a discussion. Then you had it before I started running the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u180	You know, that vice president of yours - and this is for my debate and my client, if I understand your objection correctly. Look. Why would they even ask me for a parliamentary inquiry in the previous term? Another one we tried to make, then you stopped because it came to a result you didn't like. And so it was in this mandate when we came to a conclusion or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] By the end of the debate on what was supposed to be and how the National Assembly should finally decide, you said: no, but that is not right, and we do not accept it and we want it to be different. [[...]] And that's why here to quote the wrong data again and to refer to how you would like someone who hasn't been the director of the fund now for ten years, is really, nicely said, declassified.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Everyone who is Replica, Mr. Kumer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Although I wasn't with my last name, but I was called "colleague," my colleague is going to admit that she's with me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u183	Mrs. Jeraj, do you admit? Thank you very much. Cumer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u184	I just want to be credible again about this data. In the contract, which is notarized, these data are recorded, so I would ask that when the acts are also here, if the numbers are operated, those who are known should be taken away, they should not be investigated and investigated. It's written in there. That is why I have talked about this and suggested that the document should be corrected in explanation, as it may not be rectified, and later this will prove to be the case. But because you're connected to this clientelism and corruption, I said it had to be accurate. And speaking of the Republic Housing Fund, exactly, you're right, 14 years ago by 2006. However, as you point out in this initiative that the problem of non-economic management of public funds is the purchase of dwellings at Celovské dvory in 2008, I have pointed out that it is also necessary to look at the Republic Housing Fund for the last three years, where many apartments are built and are irrationally, uneconomically invested, conveniently, with favourable loans, money that did not cover those who are entitled to these apartments, but are now being sold to everyone on the market: Postojna, Maribor, Vipava, Ajdovščina and that it does not continue to explain. This is also the non-economic treatment of the same means, not the same, but similar means from the same bag. And so it is good to take the Republic Housing Fund to a crossroads, including this last three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'll give you another round if anyone wants to sign up. But I would like to remind all of us of what article 70 says: "Every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate. [[replica]] , where this debate relates to its debate, if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted." No, no, I'm just saying we'd try to stick to it. Now, if anyone else thinks that his debate has been misinterpreted, please raise your hand, or else I inform you that everyone who wants it has had the opportunity to debate, that the time is not spent and I ask if anyone else wants to discuss this proposal. He does. I'm giving you time to report. Four Members have been reported, each has 5 minutes to discuss. Here you go. Mr. Anderlich is the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u186	In other words, I wanted to explain first that there was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure in the previous president when he gave his word for replica to someone who was otherwise speaking the language. If this is to be considered as a debate, perhaps, but there was no voice because there was no debate, but this is another matter. Once again, I would like to ask myself and all of us - what is the commission of inquiry in parliamentary democracy or in our Parliament? Certainly not that we are trying to explain what is what the investigative commission is going to find out about what is wrong and that this applies to all governments, to all periods, to all different levels, from local self-government to government works to certain public enterprises, funds and so on, and it is simply impossible to include it in one investigative commission. I said before - I don't think it comes to mind to oppose what's on the agenda, because anyway, it's just going to be an introduction. However, I certainly object to the fact that in a document I have read three times, it will record all allegations, accusations, disqualifications before we can even reasonably suspect that something has gone wrong, but it is irresponsible to do so. Even what I have undisputedly read in the media, and I have said this several times today, which has been linked to some investigative commissions in the past, but it now appears that some things have actually been true - or so the media report - I still cannot say for sure that everything was a mistake or something criminal or otherwise. But I want things to clear up. However, the parliamentary commission of inquiry in this case, which is now on the agenda, is not, in my opinion, intended for any of these things that have been recorded here to be really cleared up and brought to an end. After all, in the previous term, in a series of investigative commissions, as well as in this mandate, we have not been able to identify the subject. We have identified some witnesses who were chosen by chance or simply to say one or to burden the other party that we do not like - those who propose these investigative commissions. Of course, this is not how we can achieve what the law and the Rules of Procedure on parliamentary investigation of this Commission are supposed to do, because they also have very, very large powers; they are working on procedures that are otherwise used in criminal proceedings and so on. To finally come to a conclusion, to a certain result and then to be able to hand it over to the relevant other authorities and to say, okay, of course, we are not the court, we are not the body investigating these acts in the way the police, the prosecution and at the end of the court must do so. But when it comes to the involvement of political function holders, we suspect that someone has made it possible for someone to gain an unlawful advantage or to call for an invitation to tender in such a way that only one can come to certain transactions in public investment, not to mention the intangible benefits that some are also receiving, whether it is to intervene in employment, to intervene in certain permits and other matters. Not to mention what we have in the case of creating a list of deleted or simply creating a list and placing individuals on a list to obtain citizenship or something like that. So I'm kind of disappointed that virtually every other meeting we have is dealing with investigative commissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. According to the Rules of Procedure, I have not had the opportunity to replicate, so I am now taking advantage of the opportunity to stop at the words of Ambassador Eva Irgl, who said that "evil languages say that members of Zares are supposed to receive fees to defend Ljubljana". And in the next sentence, what evil languages are supposed to say has become a fact. She's already said in the hard line that that's probably how it is. Which just means she's a mean language too - or what? Otherwise, it looks fine, but I assure you that we do not receive any fees to defend Ljubljana, so we are Members of this Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Since you are telling us that we have already made up our minds and that someone is guilty, I would like to remind you that the agenda item is an act setting up a parliamentary inquiry to establish political responsibility due to suspicion. It's because of the suspicion. That doesn't mean we're already accusing someone, but it's a suspicion. There are people in court, and some are forgiven, and others are convicted. What do the courts say they're doing? What if someone gets excused? In order for the court to, I don't know, have to be criticized for this? You're doing the same thing. It's just by the way. Secondly, I would like to remind you of some of the claims that go in the direction of debasing investigative commissions. Someone said we already have four committees in one year. That means there will be 16 committees in four years. Based on that, I could say the following with the same logic. In one year the government produced a minus 9% drop in gross domestic product; so in four years we will produce 36% of gross domestic product. If it wasn't for a serious matter, I'd like to comment. With this, I would like to say that the previous statement about the Sixteen Commissions cannot be held - but okay, the debate is perhaps still on. The next thing I know, it's very important. You all claim that investigative committees are unproductive, that they are already doomed to failure, and that no one has done anything yet. Allow me to remind you that if there were no Vice-Holmec investigative commission, Slovenia would be on the Hague Court today. In a haze court! And thank God that this commission happened and that everything that some foreign media have also presented that war crimes have taken place at Slovenian border crossings. Thank God that happened! In Croatia they obviously do not have such a claim with investigative commissions and this could not have happened and are now in the Hague court. I say they're innocent, but that's their problem. But in Slovenia we have resolved this matter and today Slovenia is not in the Hague court. But at the time, everything pointed out that we were going to have to go there, but that didn't happen. And this is also due to the investigative commission. If you want to know who led it - our colleague Jerovšek. I can tell you that contradicting what was said there and shown in the foreign media, that was Austrian television, was easy work. Nevertheless, this effort had to be made, and this commission did. And this committee is grateful we're not in a hazmat court. To say that no commission has done anything to reach no conclusions is true. And even if only this commission did something, it pays to have investigative committees because we got rid of the Hague court. It's worth having investigative committees! And now, after so much singing that we stopped a commission in the previous term, that it couldn't finish and that we're even president, I don't know what. I can tell you that this is a respected colleague of the Quick, who has done his own work, he has not followed any rules of procedure, nothing. And this is the gentleman who made Slovenia and our "prime minister" in the Vatican laugh at this time. The whole world's laughing. It's the same gentleman. Such things as he taught and deceived the President of the Government, he also did at that time. And that's why it's no wonder that that happened. He made it impossible for his committee to work normally and adopt legislation in the field [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u191	Mr Rudolf Petan, I know it's very nice to speak, but it's incorrect and has nothing to do with the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u192	He does, if it was all said. I'm just saying why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u193	It can have anything to do with it, and I can tell you that it has no connection. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u194	Mr President, then those who spoke about this should also be reminded, but you did not hold the meeting at the time, I apologize. I'm just saying that's not true. That's my right to answer. If someone dropped someone off, then that gentleman dropped himself off. For this reason, I support this investigative commission, and once again, I say that only because of the Vič-Holmec commission, it is paid to have investigative commissions because we are not on the basis of an investigative commission in the Hague court. Please remember this, because some of you weren't in Parliament at the time and you don't know this, which is why I explain. The ones we were here, we know that, and that's why I said it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, I would like to ask, I do not blame you if you have reminded me - fine. I was just responding to what others were saying. But I think that what happened at the time I spoke was by my esteemed colleague Anderlich, and that goes beyond all limits. Although I was quiet, I didn't answer him, because I don't think it's right, but please let him calm down a bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u197	Mr. Petan, thank you so much for your warning. Anyone who, in my opinion and in my opinion, is disturbed by order in the hall will be reminded. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, chairman. I promise not to talk about my thoughts and my opinion on Cardinal msgn's statements. Rodet, not even the Vatican story, about the fact that the Holy Father refused to accept our premiere and about what was happening. And I will not even express my solidarity with Mr Gulic, whom I hope will stand upright where he is, but we will not talk about this. We'll talk about the University of Primorsk again. I'm Koprčan, I come from that environment and I hope to say that I know a little better than my opposition colleagues this subject. Again, I heard from the proposaler some vague assessments that some of the links should be disputed, that some companies should be, etc. Look, this poor habit of parliament, assessing the work of this company or that company, I don't think it belongs to any normal, correct political culture. The company about which there was so much talk is a valued company and its services benefits many Koprčank and Koprčanov, many Primors, many Slovenes. Even in our building, we ordered some repairs right at that company. At the time I was not even a member of the party Zares, and when that company was concerned about the reconstruction, obviously a quality renovation, because today those buildings are well-renewed and are very functional, then there was no Minister Golobič. He hasn't even been a member of the government yet. This has happened in recent years. When he inherited the problem created by the previous government as minister, he had no alternative to the fact that he was recovering the situation as soon as possible. Because if I hadn't done it, the interest story would have continued. And not only that, we were threatened by a public auction of two objects that were never private property. They have been part of the congregation since the Renaissance times and have now been owned by the public, I repeat, by the public University of Primorska. But the clients of the former government wanted to come cheap, quickly to those facilities, and they made every effort to do so. It was a story, of course, that dragged on for several years and proved that the former government had no interest in public matters. We finally stopped that. We've changed the course of some wild, seismic process. We stopped and prevented additional interest. I believe that someone will have to answer for the EUR 600,000 interest generated at that time. And I am surprised that no one has ever accused the former Minister and the former Minister, because there has been a clear suspicion if we stick to the categories that Mr Petan advocates, to the suspicion of abuse of the position, in order to favour his clients. Here, that's all. This is the story of the University of Primorska. Once again, I look forward to this work by the Commission, because they will come here on the day of truth, which the opposition in particular will not like very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry. You all know that I have a mission to perform now, which I am not particularly fond of, but because of the magnetogram, I have to read what the content, what the purpose is and what the scope of the parliamentary inquiry is. Pursuant to Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on Parliamentary Inquiry and therefore I find that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders who have participated in the preparation and execution of investments and leases, rentals and other comparable transactions financed by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, in the area of housing projects and the purchase of residential buildings and related garages or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects to rebuild and build the premises of the University of Primorska, projects to build the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, projects of state importance, projects of public use, projects of public interest, projects of public interest financed by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and projects of public investment in the field of public interest. high buildings in public health facilities [[project of the Paediatric Clinic, project of the Oncology Institute, etc.]] , in view of the suspicion that procedures and transactions have been politically agreed, conducted in a non-transparent and non-economic manner, and because of the suspicion of the presence of clientism, corruption and interlinkages between the various operators of the activities and activities of the related persons involved in the preparation, procurement and execution of construction works, and in this regard in particular for the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and their role in this regard. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to: 1. To identify and clarify whether the facilities and transactions have been carried out transparently and with the care of the good master. 2. To identify and clarify whether public tenders and signed contracts have led to irregularities, which have not been carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly, resulting in suspicion that there has been an abuse of the situation and corruption. 3. To identify and clarify whether the conditions and procedures for the award of public contracts, the selection of tenders, negotiations and the content of tenders have led to irregularities and possible abuses of position or corruption. 4. To identify and clarify whether real estate purchases have been made rationally, economically and legally. 5. To identify and clarify whether investments in purchase, leasing, rental or other comparable transactions involved the operation of related persons and the acquisition of unlawful property benefits of public function holders or related, political, business or otherwise related persons. 6. To determine whether all legislation adopted in the National Assembly was respected in carrying out projects and business. Seven. To determine whether the funds from the State budget and the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana were in the framework of housing projects and the purchase of residential buildings with related garage facilities or areas in the Municipality of Ljubljana - please - projects of State importance, projects of reconstruction and improvement of the premises of the University of Primorska, projects of residential construction of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, projects of public use funded by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects of public interest funded by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and projects of public public investment in the area of so-called public interest. high construction in public health facilities drawn and used rationally, intentionally and in accordance with regulations. 8. To establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that the negotiations between public function holders in the procurement process and potential tenderers involved abuse of the position, bribery and other corrupt practices that contributed to the unwarranted acquisition of the business and damage to the public budget or to the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the framework of housing projects and the purchase of residential buildings with related garage facilities or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects of State importance, projects of public interest, renovation and improvement of the premises of the University of Primorsk, projects of housing construction projects of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, projects of public use, funded by the State budget or the budget of the Ljubljana City of Ljubljana, projects of public interest, projects of construction investments in the area of so-called public interest. high constructions in public health facilities. 9. To determine whether public procurement in the field of construction investments is in the field of so-called ‘procurement contracts’. high constructions of sales, leasing, rental and other comparable transactions existed related transactions between bidders which were politically agreed. Ten. To determine whether public function holders have handled all due diligence in urban, spatial and environmental investment processes and in purchasing, leasing, rental or other comparable transactions. 11. To establish, disprove or demonstrate that in urban, spatial and environmental proceedings, investments and purchasing, leasing, rental and other comparable transactions were subject to possible abuses by public function holders and thus to the acquisition of unlawful property benefits and corruption. 12. To determine whether the additional works and payments and the accounts of the bonuses and maluses that increased or changed the basic values of the investment were real or were the result of a pre-agreed process of awarding parts of the low or agreed offer values that favoured certain tenderers and to determine whether any abuse of position and corruption occurred in such transactions. 13. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders and their indirect or direct linkage and the possible abuse of the position in the selection, negotiation and signature of contracts. 14. Identify political responsibility and potential abuse of the position of individual public function holders in the execution of individual projects and purchasing, leasing and other comparable transactions. 15. To establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that individual projects and transactions have resulted in damages to the State budget or to the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the framework of housing projects and the purchase of residential buildings with related garage facilities or areas in the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects of State importance, projects to rebuild and upgrade the premises of the University of Primorske, projects to build the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, projects to public use funded by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects of public interest funded by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and projects of public investment in the field of so-called high-quality buildings in public health facilities. 16. To identify, prove or disprove suspicions about the direct or direct connections of individuals in the chain of contracting entities - designer - contractor - subcontractor - supervisor - buyer, seller or tenant with public function holders, thereby allowing them to gain unjustifiable benefits and damage to the state. 17. To establish, prove or disprove the suspicion that there has been blackmail or political guidance and pressure in the conduct of business. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Identify the responsibilities and involvement of public service holders in the preparation of public procurement calls and their involvement in possible links or prior arrangements with tenderers. 19. To determine whether the award of public contracts by public function holders was favoured by individual tenderers, which prevented competition. 20. Identify the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions due to the alleged abandonment of the duty, the imposition of appropriate procedures in cases of suspected offences or corrupt behaviour of public function holders in accordance with the applicable legislation. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry is: The investigation should cover in particular the following projects of major public interest and investment. First of all, projects of housing construction, leasing, rental or other comparable transactions and purchases of residential buildings and related garages or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana; project of renovation of buildings and upgrading of premises of the University of Primorska; project of housing construction of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia; project of the Pediatric Clinic; project of the Oncological Institute; and sixthly, projects of construction investments in the fields of so-called high buildings, projects of state importance and projects of public use funded by state budget or budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana since 1992 onwards. This is what the Parliamentary Commission is set up to do. Before the conclusion of this agenda item, I ask the Parliamentary-Electorial Commission to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the commission of inquiry, in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry, and to forward it in a decision to the National Assembly no later than at the forthcoming meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 9th session, which will be resumed by the vote at 5.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u200	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda - second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 11. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendment was adopted, the representative of the Government proposed that the third hearing be held at the same meeting in the morning. I note that in the second reading, amendments are adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, and therefore I propose that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 180(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third consideration of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 25. 9. 2009, after the end of the vote. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue to end the 12th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, of course, we will vote against this decision and we will support the law. We'll support him because he's simply necessary. Needed to stimulate investment in the Slovenian economy and give the economy the opportunity to start thinking again about how to move forward in the future. The numbers in front of us are alarming. GDP is falling by 9.3% and one of the key reasons is that investments have fallen. Investment activity by 27.3%. The Statistical Office notes that gross investment fell by 36.7%. The measure is also supported by the Economic Chamber, economic operators. I don't understand why we'd have to put our heads in the sand before all these facts. I call: let us be reasonable, let us help the Slovenian economy and support this law and vote against the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 28. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 13th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of management and supervisory authorities during the financial and economic crisis. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Likar would like to do it on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we will support the amendment because we believe that the threshold for this additional taxation is more appropriate for the salaries of the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'm asking you to turn your phones down. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u205	We will also support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because if we want the law to achieve or partially achieve its purpose, then bankruptcy managers and managers must also be included among the taxpayers in the enforcement procedures, as well as the SIB Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'd like to see Likar on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, regardless of the fact that it will be without these amendments, especially the fact that bankruptcy managers will not be included among the debtors. As we say, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I must say, I'm increasingly surprised by the situation. Yesterday I introduced you to the awards of bankruptcy managers, yesterday I explained to the coalition all the information that had happened since December last year until the end of July this year, and I made it very clear that the analyses show, according to the official data of the Ministry of Justice, that the bankruptcy managers are one of the top prizes. I made it clear that in the seven working days early in July of this year, Slovenian courts awarded as many as two million EUR 300,000 to bankruptcy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u210	Dr. Gorenak, with all due respect, is not the time to convince others, but to explain their own voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u211	Or can I just say, "I'll do it!" What do you think?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u212	You tell me why you'll be in.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u213	President, I beg you, if you have an allergy called Vinko Gorenak, take a tablet. My vote will be "yes" with great regret that the coalition does not want to see those individuals who are the richest. These would, however, be included in the law. So I will vote in favour, but I would expect a little more sobriety in addressing the opposition's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u214	Dear Dr. Gorenak, I also try to treat you with respect when I restrict you or allow you in accordance with the rules of procedure. And I expect you to do the same in response. This time you didn't. Clearly, there are still suggestions for explanations of vote. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of voice Lucky Friend. In your own name? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. This law makes sense if you take into account everything you should take into account - it would make even more sense. In fact, no one has claimed too many prizes, no one in Slovenia has actually asked the directors to return too much personal income paid. No one in Slovenia has ever asked supervisors to guarantee personal property for the stupid and unwise decisions they made on the supervisory boards, even though this is enshrined in the law. No one has yet brought back to Slovenia, to the state budget those millions of euros, which also created this law on rewards, which one should have paid as a reward. Nor did anyone ask why awards are paid in companies when there are no results. And I respect these efforts to do something. However, as previously said, the patch on a very open wound does not completely solve the problem. But we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u218	Mr. Jelinčič explains his voice. You didn't turn on the microphone, so we can't consider it an explanation for the voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u219	May I? I expected such a reaction, Mr. President. Even when I am silent, do not let me express my opinion! [[A laugh in the hall.]] But I'll do it for the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u220	Well, I think they're always the most important information to vote for the law, but everything else is for "different." Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Willie Rezman, please. [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 19th item on the agenda - the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the level of resources belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2009. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Parliamentary Group, Mr Janez Ribič. [[The ad in the hall.]] First the explanation of vote, then you will get the floor for the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u221	I would just like to apologize, Madam President, for the previous vote, for having made a mistake and I voted against it. But I'm married. Mr. Jelinčič so impressed me that I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u222	Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you. The democratic functioning of the country in Slovenia is also ensured by the even financing of parliamentary political parties from the state budget. The aim of such funding is to ensure the optimum functioning of Slovenian political space and thus political plurality, which is essential for the good functioning of democracy in each country. We probably do not need to be particularly reminded of what existence means and overcomes just one political option in the country. The reduction of the budget line for political parties is appropriate in view of the crisis and overall savings in the state administration, and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the proposal for a decision. Let us once again draw attention to the unfair, uneven financing of parliamentary political parties. The current funding of parliamentary political parties is regulated so that the level of these funds is proportional to the number of votes obtained in the elections. As a result, more successful parliamentary parties have a huge amount of funding for their operations, and fewer successful parliamentary parties have very little, given that they can agree that there is some minimum standard of action required for the functioning of normal parliamentary political parties. Financial resources for any improvement remain to the major customers under this heading, and financial resources are not even provided for the basic survival of the smaller parties. As a result, the reduction of funds for political parties to large parties in their operations will hardly be known, and a smaller client is no longer provided with the minimum necessary resources for a purely basic operation. We note the fact that the system of financing political parties, with any additional change, increasingly opens the door to political corruption. Why don't the proposers just propose abolishing budget funding for parliamentary political parties? Thus, in our little Slovenia, where almost everyone knows, we would open wide doors to different or different interest lobbyes, whose interests are rarely shared with the interests of most citizens and citizens. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, it is recalled that due to the continued political plurality and the growing risk of political corruption, a thorough debate will have to be held on the further concept of financing parliamentary political parties. As we say, we will confirm the proposal for a decision in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u225	Since we have political parties in Slovenia, in fact, we are in the dilemmas of how to arrange funding for the operations of these parties, how to organise, as a result, various campaigns, whether referendums, elections, local elections, the Presidential Assembly or the National Assembly, and we are always in some trouble about what would be better: whether to decide and all the resources belonging to individual parties, via budgets, have transparency, transparency, or, as now, to allow something from other sources, which are in a material sense that can be in terms of the work of sympathizers or otherwise, to make certain funds, such as cars and so on, free of charge for some campaigns. I think that this is the way we have it in Slovenia - but of course there are very different ways of financing political parties in the world. It may not be necessary to explain how they do it in America or in some other old democracy in Europe. This way that each year we determine this height, which has once been arbitrarily determined and is now changing according to a better or worse situation, is poor. I will support the decision - not because it is not popular to say that every tolar, former, and the current euro, is intended for customers, lost or even more - is a harmful investment of money. No! No! This is the financing of the political system in one way or another, and in the future, I will advocate that all that the parties will spend, either from the local or from the state budget, and that this is transparent and that the amount is bearable, as it seems appropriate at times.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Victory of the Elinčič noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. It is populism babbling, and especially by the government on the extreme populism. This is the level of paying for their own coffee, and that is why they cut us even more across Slovenia and everywhere. The point is that large customers are, in fact - let's say, those who are in a ruling position - no matter what happens, because the directors who set them up, set them up, will be provided with funds in unlimited amounts and will also cover the finely paid political work. I think that some people want to go back to socialism, and then there would be volunteers sitting here who would otherwise have well-paid jobs in the industry, but here we would just go to confirm what gentlemen in the government would have decided. I think it is a complete populism, and perhaps it would be better if Mr Squeakl, while not preparing for his weddings, tried to collect money from state resources for his tents and so on, that Mr Squeakle could draft a law whereby any political party who would come to Parliament should pay for it at all: first, for the elections; and secondly, that we should sit in here. Let the Government propose that any Member sitting here should pay between €1,500 and €7,000 per month, depending on the "heaviest Member". I think we're donkeys, donkeys, if we can confirm that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It's 71 votes against 3. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly. As the amendments to the motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the ninth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
