ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Zvonko Černač from 3 p.m., Vila Rezman until 6 p.m., Roberto Battelli after 3 p.m., Franz Bogovič and Franz Pukšič after 6 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CROSS LAW, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u2	Nice greetings, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Offences Act is a fundamental procedural law governing infringement proceedings. It makes sense to refer to a multitude of procedural laws, especially to the law on criminal proceedings, as well as to the criminal code, to the law on the liability of legal persons and other laws. This means that whenever any of these laws change, the provisions of the Act on Offences must also be properly corrected, and that is exactly what the novel that is before us today is doing in most cases. In terms of coordination with the criminal code, this amendment introduces corrections relating to the new definition of "forces" instead of "forces and threats" in the previous criminal code, and also to the new placement of co-services, which is now included in the chapter on crime and no longer in the section on participation. The following amendment introduced by the novel shall apply to the equal treatment of all categories of drivers when they commit offences for which termination of the driving licence can be pronounced. In addition to the fine, the existing regime knows more than 6 points for drivers of beginners, where more than 6 points are prescribed in addition to the fine, to conduct these procedures in a rapid procedure. However, in the case of other drivers who are of full age, for offences for which a penalty may be imposed for the termination of a driving licence, proceedings shall be conducted in a regular judicial procedure. This means that these two categories of perpetrators, in this case the drivers, are treated differently, and the proposal of the law, this inequality, eliminates inequality. The Criminal Procedure Act introduced special provisions in the latest paper on the seizure and investigation of electronic and related devices and electronic data carriers. In view of the specific provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, reference should also be made to these special provisions for the investigation and examination of electronic and related devices in the Act on Offences, which refers to the reasonable application of the provisions on house and personal investigation. In the first instance proceedings, a new duty of the courts is also introduced to examine and determine, on an official basis, whether the act which is manifest to the accused is an offence or not and to keep an eye on the statute of limitations. It was now considered that in the proceedings in the District Courts which conducted the proceedings at the request of the Court of Justice, the courts were not obliged to examine these circumstances under official duty, while in the Court’s appeal proceedings they were acting on official duty. Thus, the perpetrators who had no data at first stage during the course of the proceedings or at the beginning of the proceedings had no information as to whether there were circumstances justifying the occurrence of obsolescence or the circumstances which did not constitute an offence in those circumstances could not have been invoked in the first stage of the trial, but only in the complaint. The proposed amendment eliminates this anomaly or inconsistencies. The news is also that the powers of police detention are being extended in cases where the police catch the perpetrators of the offence. The possibility of detention for two reasons was now possible for the purpose of bringing a judge to justice. These were the reasons for the repeated danger and indifference. This reason is now joined by a third reason, which, while also allowed for the determination of detention, is a danger of destroying evidence. In this way, we are confident that the police will be given an instrument that will be able to conduct criminal proceedings more effectively, since now because of the danger of destroying evidence or the subject matter of the offence, it has not been possible to detain the perpetrator. And finally. Finally, we introduce the possibility that higher-level courts may exceptionally in certain limited cases where they assess that the irregularities of the first-degree judgments cannot be resolved otherwise, they may also refer the matter back to the courts of first instance. The regulation adopted so far in 2008 prevents any return of cases to the courts at first instance, which leads in practice to unusual and legally controversial situations. As a matter of fact, the novel is putting an end to this anomaly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed this proposal at its 12th meeting, on 1 December 2009. It was proposed by the government. The Committee had before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and the opinion of the Council of Justice. Mr Škrlec, the representative of the proposer, said that we are shortening what we have heard or about what we have just heard. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account in the coalition amendments. It re-emphasized the problem of Article 12 which, in its view, is not adequately regulated. Mr Vnučec, representative of the Council of State, gave a positive opinion by the competent committee of the Council of State. In the discussion, the members and members of the Committee followed the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service on Article 12 of the proposed amendment and adopted their amendment to this article in agreement with the proposer, by which a new reason for detaining the alleged offender is correctly set out in Article 110 of the Offences Act. In the debate in the proposed Article 15, which complements Article 163 of the Offences Act, the opposition Members considered that the re-legislation of the possibility of higher courts, that in the appeal procedure, the judgment of the Court of First Instance can be annulled and returned to re-judgment, would result in new judicial backlogs and, for the party, high legal costs. The coalition Members, however, supported or supported such a solution. The following amendments were adopted by the Committee: SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS, two to Articles 17, 18 and 19 and the SDS Group's amendments to Articles 17 and 19, but did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15 and did not vote on the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 12, as they became irrelevant. The Committee adopted its two amendments, i.e. amendments to Articles 10 and 12. On the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then voted on all articles together and prepared the text of the law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the word on behalf of the SDS Group. We could stay for the pay phone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u6	I saw a slightly different order. The Act on Offences and Position of the SDS Group. I must say that the SDS Group agrees with four of the five proposed solutions, globally proposed solutions in this law, and thus we welcome the harmonisation of the law on offences and the criminal code, as this is necessary. In our view, it is also necessary for beginner drivers to align themselves with other drivers in all procedures, in particular those cases surrounding the withdrawal of the driver's licence. It is also not disputed that the review of the obsolescence under the official duty for the Group of Members is subject to review. To the newly regulated possibility of detaining a convicted offender in offences that the Ministry has prepared quite flawed, I am, in fact, pleased that this article has been corrected and also adopted by the coalition on the proposal of the SDS Group, so that this area is more systematically regulated. Of course, there is one solution in this law that is not acceptable to us - in no way. That's why I need to base it a little bit more precisely. A new law was adopted in 2008 which prevents higher courts from re-trialing and re-trialing. The higher courts are therefore, following a novel so-called Sturm's novels, those courts which must decide: confirm, amend, take a new decision, but no longer have the option of bringing the higher courts back to the so-called first stage. This law, which is before us, removes this possibility. I must point out that already at the time of the twinning projects, recognised German expert Doukoff, I think I have just stated, as one of the main comments on our legislation actually had a comment on the fact that the higher courts do not decide, but that they simply cancel and return to the trial at the first stage. He wrote very clearly and said that this meant prolonging the proceedings, leading to a decision, a trial in so-called misunderstandings, leading to the fact that taxpayers pay quite a lot of compensation. I am very happy and am pleased with the position taken by the Secretary of State on the Committee. The Secretary of State said that they were changing this for a simple reason or that they were proposing such a change for a simple reason because the first-degree courts were making bad decisions. First instance courts issue judgments that are not supported by appropriate evidence, are flawed because the Court of First Instance relies on judges to decide on a second stage. We believe that, that's probably totally true. But that's no reason to change the law. This is why the supervisory mechanisms in the Court of Justice begin to operate and the supervisory mechanisms in the Court of Justice carry out all the necessary procedures to ensure that such judges are simply sanctioned so that such judges lose their jobs at the end of the period. Why not? It is not to give them silence and simply introduce a system of return to the first stage. What will that mean next? This will simply mean that we will get into a situation where court proceedings are definitely prolonging due to the return to trial. This, of course, will mean another trial in unreasonable hands and all that goes with it, and in particular compensation for the trial in so-called unreasonable hands, which will go on the shoulders of taxpayers anyway. Provided that this provision is accepted, our amendment will also be supported by this law. Otherwise, we cannot support such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by Vito Rožej on behalf of the Zares Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Act on Offences before us mostly coordinates the terminology and solutions of the Offences Act with the Criminal Procedure Act and with the Criminal Code. It is the fact that force and threat are now replaced by an instrument of coercion in the criminal code, and co-operation is regulated in the second chapter, and an appropriate correction has been made in the law on offences to refer to the right chapters and the right article. The new institute introduced by this amendment to the Act on Offences is also the possibility of detaining persons because of a colossal danger, i.e. the risk of a person rejecting, destroying or otherwise preventing evidence and evidence of an offence. This measure is necessary for the effective implementation of procedures in cases where the perpetrator has been caught in the service of the offence. In his own explanation, the Secretary of State said that the police would conduct criminal proceedings more effectively with this instrument, which I find symptomatic, given that we are not talking today about the law on criminal proceedings, but about the law on offences. In the Group of Members, we are really paying attention to this thin line between the offence and the crime that is being erased by this new instrument. However, there are, of course, reasons why we treat offences differently than crimes defined and clear, with a view to doing so. In these cases, when private freedom is restricted, it always seems important for us to weigh between the proportionality of the measure and the gravity of the offence. We hope, of course, that in months, a year, we can also get a report on how much this instrument is being implemented. Similarly, if you may recall the last amendment to the Police Act, when we have given the police new powers of personal review, it is important to note that this instrument is not misused because I believe that the gravity of the acts committed must be in proportion to the measures or vice versa. The next important amendment introduced by the amendment to the law is the possibility for the higher courts in the appeal procedure to annul the decision of the Court of First Instance and bring the matter back to trial, as already referred to by my predecessor. Repeal and retrial after this amendment is possible only when the provisions of the infringement procedure are substantially infringed and the court will assess that it cannot only be remedied in the light of its nature. It is so difficult for us to fully agree with the assessment that these things will flow automatically. The applicant submits that it will thus encourage judges to carry out their work in such a quality and responsible manner at the first stage that no appeal proceedings will arise or that the higher court will not have the need to revoke and return their judgments to a new trial. In the Group of Members, we will truly support the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support in principle amendments and additions to the Offences Act if they help reduce the number of offences, faster procedures and greater legal certainty. Because of the consistency of the law itself, of course, we support the harmonisation of the Law on Offences with others, such as the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. As I have already said, we support the aspirations that criminal authorities should also be more effective. We hope that the Institute will also contribute to this by detaining the offender in order not to destroy or alienate evidence that is still relevant in the later proceedings. Of course, we also expect that the abuse of powers will not increase and that there will be no unjustified detention. The draft law also repeals the rules governing the decision of the higher court so far on appeal by the Court of First Instance. We believe that such an arrangement can in certain cases be legally inadequate, but we are surprised that this has not been exposed to any other level before the law changes itself. It is also appropriate for us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to introduce a test of the offence under official duty by means of amendments to the law, so that we will have to test again whether the offence has been committed or has become obsolete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word, on behalf of the Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposed amendments to the Offences Act. These are amendments to the basic law in the field of criminal law, which are also covered by the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes and a variety of other laws. The coherence of these two areas, i.e. criminal and criminal law, is therefore necessary and considered if it is to effectively pursue the objectives for which all this legislation has been adopted. In this light, certain corrections to the law on the offence are being drawn up, which is supported by Members of the DeSUS. Given that criminal law is one of the most important parts of the relationship between an individual, on the one hand, and the country, law and institutionalised pressure, on the other hand, especially as far as the frequency of an individual's meeting with him is concerned, it is certainly necessary to pay attention to any amendment and modification of the institutions of criminal law or to changing the criminal policy in general. Therefore, in our Group, we have given special attention to the proposed correction of established institutions, such as: the investigation of electronic and related devices and electronic data carriers, the examination of the provision by official duty or the offence itself, or the prosecution itself, the institution of detention, if there is a legitimate fear that the perpetrator will hide, destroy or reject evidence of the offence, the decision on the appeal procedure, thereby allowing for the annulment of the judgment of the Court of First Instance and the return of the case to a new decision. As far as the amendments are concerned, we do not oppose the actions of the competent authorities. It is the duty of the court to take official care of the statute of limitations of prosecution. Here we think it is right that the courts are the ones responsible for taking care of this important situation, since there are times when the parties are given the possibility of such a substantive objection only at the next stage, i.e. in a higher court. We also support a second solution, which is the possibility of the second-degree authority to annul the decision of the Court of First Instance and bring the matter back to trial. The application of this option has, according to our assessment, been a reasonable and convincing argument by the proposalr, and we see no reason why we should oppose it in our group. Experiences in practice, where there are some very unusual situations, are also practically demanding amendments to the Act on Offences in this work. Members of the DeSUS will contribute to the adoption of the amendment to the Act on Offences, with a view to adapting or aligning this part of the legislation with the rest of the criminal law, and in order to resolve the procedural complications that have occurred under the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Offences is an amendment which constitutes an adaptation to an already existing code that has entered into force 1. 1. 2008 and solves procedural complications that cannot be resolved without legal adjustment. This is a fundamental law based on criminal law. The Novela is following the coordination of terminology and solutions in the Offences Act, in particular with the Criminal Procedure Act and the Penal Code. As can be seen from practice, the last amendment to the law in certain segments has proved to be flawed and incomplete. There is also a substantive change that will ensure equality of treatment before the law for drivers of all categories. So far, it has been possible to rule out the withdrawal of a driver’s licence when a certain number of points were drawn up, so that the beginner drivers were in an unequal position, since they were left without a driver’s license, without being tried in court, following a reduced procedure already at the police station. This will be corrected by the amendment and only the court will be responsible for such procedures. The automatic termination of the driver’s license can also be mitigated by the number of criminal points that has been said, which is entirely acceptable when we are talking about equality before the law. The new law in criminal proceedings also regulates the seizure and investigation of an electronic device and electronic data carriers, as exemplified by the law on criminal proceedings. It shall also be noted, on an official basis, that there may be a delay in the prosecution and the extent to which the offence is committed. The specificity of the novel is the detention due to the suspicion of a criminal service based on colossal dangers. The applicant only excuses this measure in the part where the police catch the perpetrator in the crime itself, when the court does not act and there is no possibility of making an accusation, and there is a risk that the perpetrator will escape or continue to commit offences. In this case, it is certainly a matter of deprivation of liberty or restriction of personal freedom, which is the constitutional protection of the right of an individual, as enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution, in view of the content of the reasons and the detention of Article 20 of the Constitution. As we see, the evidence standard and the reason for keeping it below the already established law and does not justify the proposed innovations is why, in this part, the proposal for a law, as it is a matter of personal freedom, would show the application of less favourable measures. The amendment that the court in the appeals proceedings annuls the decision of the first court and brings the case back to trial is a practice that has already been enshrined in the law and has not proved to be good and is now being reinstated, on the grounds that it is not good, since the higher courts cannot refer the cases back to the courts of the first instance, which is also questionable by constitutionality, since there is a possibility that you may be convicted for the first time at the second stage and no longer have a possibility to appeal. It is clear from the material that there is also a shortage of professional staff who will be more professional in first-degree courts when deciding and writing judgments. It is clear from all this that the proposal for a law amending the Act on Offences is set on a number of good amendments which should follow the objective of improving the law, which has not convinced us in the part that speaks of the deprivation of liberty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the law on changes and additions to the law on offences. We'll support him for a number of reasons. Let me just say some. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences seeks to ensure consistency with the criminal code and other laws which provide for offences and offences or the conduct of criminal authorities in the event of offences committed. By the end of 2008, a new criminal code had entered into force, which also affected the substance of criminal law and Article 8 of the Offences Act, which refers to the meaningful application of criminal law, was amended. We continue to support the guidelines of this law aimed at increasing the effectiveness of criminal authorities and courts. In order to ensure a more successful implementation of the infringement procedures, the provisions on measures to ensure that the accused is present are complemented. It has been determined that the police can hold the accused if there are reasonable grounds to suspect that he has committed a crime and is justified in fear of concealing, destroying or rejecting evidence of the offence. We also support the amendments to Article 163 of the Offences Act, which are being amended to allow the courts of the second instance to reopen the case to the courts of the first instance, i.e. a new trial. In practice, it has proved that there are many cases where a higher court is not only able to remedy a substantial breach of the provisions of the infringement procedure, or when the higher court first carries out the evidentiary procedure and for the first time makes a substantive decision on the offences. In these cases, the right of appeal is effectively withdrawn as there is no appeal against a decision or judgment of a higher court. In the LDS, we believe that by ensuring one constitutional right, this is the right to a trial within a reasonable time we cannot overtake another constitutional right, which in this case is the right to judicial protection. The amendment of the Act on Offences, which entered into force on 5 March 2008, gave rise to a new system of appeal, which was well-intentioned but incomplete and reckless. Probably also because we rushed into adopting the bill and, at the proposal of the then government or the Minister of Justice, we dealt with it as a matter of urgency, and we also expressed a written protest at the LDS Club. After a year and a half, it turns out that we really cannot introduce systemic changes through emergency procedures. Therefore, in the LDS, we draw attention to the conflict of constitutional rights, which is the right of a trial within a reasonable period, which is in conflict with other constitutional rights, with the right to a remedy and the protection of rights. We believe that the abolition of the possibility of repealing the first-degree judgments is not the only mechanism for reducing judicial backlogs and that statistics do not confirm the claim that the backlogs were largely due to the return of cases to retrial. We cannot, however, impose an argument that, by abolishing the possibility of revoking the judgment, the right to a trial must be followed without undue delay, since it is not a matter of delay when returning to re-decision in our opinion. In essence, judicial backlogs arise in cases where a judge does not schedule orders or hearings as he should or does not issue judgements and judgments within a reasonable time. Thus, at the LDS Club, we welcome an arrangement which will allow for equal treatment of all perpetrators of offences, but not the possibility of a meritorial decision by the higher courts, to which the accused cannot even complain. On the basis of all of this, we express our support for the amendment or amendment of the law on offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anton Kolarič, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to the Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! It is prepared to comply with the criminal law in substantive provisions. Adaptation is also supported by the Council of Justice because this solves procedural complications that could not be resolved without legal adjustment. There is also a clearer distinction between a speedy infringement procedure and a regular judicial procedure, so that a speedy procedure is not allowed for offences against road safety, for which a lateral penalty of penalty is prescribed in the number for which termination of the driving licence is pronounced under the law of the perpetrator. In particular, a provision relating to the authorisation of detention in cases where it is justified to fear that the accused or the perpetrator of the offence will destroy, hide or reject evidence of the offence, and to a provision which gives the courts of second stages the possibility that the judgment of the first instance may be annulled in the appeal proceedings and put the case back into a new decision. In practice, it turned out that, in the suspicion of service, the police were without evidence, and the higher court could not only remedy the substantial infringements of the provisions of the infringement procedure. In fact, the right to appeal was also taken into account in the legislation in force, since there is no appeal against a decision or judgment of a higher court. The solutions proposed allow the proceedings of the offence to be carried out more effectively and will also allow for equal treatment of all perpetrators of the offence. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a new law on offences because we believe that the proposed changes are necessary and justified, but we will not support the SDS amendment by Article 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 14.12.2009. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I have already made it very clear in the opening position of the Group of Members that we have before us a law that is only welcomed in four or five segments or on our part, also supported by us because it rarely happens that any amendment by the SDS Group has been adopted, but this time it has been. However, the amendment, which is the subject of debate, refers to exactly what has been or is still at issue with us, and this is the return of matters to the higher courts of first instance. And we have tabled an amendment to this matter, which is why we want to extend this time of enforcement for formal reasons, so that the Ministry of Justice can reconsider such a decision at that time and take any better. That was the basic reason. The amendment itself, or article we are amending, is relatively clear. Look, at the time of the twinning projects, we were warned by those who have a complete judicial system in Europe, not to say zero, but a good judicial system such as the German: do not do this, eliminate the regulations and the higher courts, in such cases as we are talking about to decide, but not return things to the first stage. The question of returning things to the first stage is not just in the courts, even in legal proceedings is the same because they are at a higher level of officials, but here in this case they do not love, do not love, do not, or are gentlemen on some level when they say, because I am on this level and I have this option, and they simply return. This means an extension of the proceedings. There is no reason, and there is no reason for us to legalize things as easily as possible. Also in the comparative review of European countries, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, look at the comparative review from European countries, and you will see how it is in Europe. I'm not going to read it because any of us can read it. And it is not acceptable for us to return matters for the reason stated on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. There it was made very clear, judges of the first-degree courts are deciding, poorly supporting with evidence, not supporting with evidence, issuing inadequacy judgments, because they rely on a higher court to decide and will never come back to their table. Look, these are mistakes. But I don't criticize these mistakes. We all make mistakes, from the medical system, the judicial system, we Members here, to the box, if you like, in some factory. It's happening all over the place. And it's happening in the courts as well. And normally, it happens, only mistakes have to be corrected. Now we're making a mistake. How? So if hypothetically this mistake and those who do it, I call some disease to treat it with tea instead of penicillin. So the judiciary should activate its control mechanisms. Meanings, such judges as have been told on the committee, without evidence, bad judgements, etc., against them to activate control mechanisms. This means everything that the judiciary has, including resolution. Why not?Oh, my God! And now we're doing something else. In order to address this, we are now putting the situation in place so that the higher courts will return. I, if I may extend a little, Mr President, the framework of this amendment with another comparison. Look, we're wrapping the justice system in cotton, and there's no reason to wrap it in cotton with these kind of moves. One of the proofs of howling in cotton is the answer to yesterday's question. We in this country have no review of the additional work of the judges. The minister said that, and I believe him. We leave things to the court. We are also doing something here that is not good for this country, which is not good for the justice system, which is not good for taxpayers. And for God's sake, if it's so arranged elsewhere in Europe that second-degree courts decide, then I don't see why we wouldn't be okay. I see the reason why in our case this "ala" is not right, in some circular operation of the current ministry's leadership, which instead of taking care of the judicial system and its effectiveness, adopts laws that will enable judges to quality, efficient, legal, professionally and do not know what kind of work, we are adopting a series of laws that actually take justice in a broader sense of the word far from that goal. I will not list lawyers, notaries and all that I have already said in this Chamber - today's decision, today's expected decision is just a stone in this mosaic. And this is not good for our citizens, this is bad for our citizens. an excuse for an alleged complaint: Oh, how many instances and options do we have over such a higher court! Something. The fact that the higher courts are once again in a position to return matters is simply not a good one. We have also heard the argument that the higher courts are now being burdened. It is no big deal, first-rate judges, those who are excellent and good, that the judicial branch of the authorities, through the procedures that exist, should move to the higher courts, the system will function normally. And let him expel the judges who work badly. But we simply don't want that because we claim that the judicial branch of power is independent. Let me tell you again. We deeply respect this independence in making decisions that are final or whatever and must be implemented. Not in the independence of the judiciary, however, counts all such matters as returning to trial and paying judges and more. This isn't an independent judiciary. The independent judiciary is not that the first - century judges are doing their job badly, some have been told. That's not how I see doing my job, and I don't consider it independent. Absolutely not. Systems such as the judiciary in such things or health care, if you want to control yourself, are systems that lead to destruction. Because self-control doesn't work from a simple human proverb: crows don't turn off their eyes. That's all to conclude. In the police, this system works completely differently. It is not completely comparable, I am talking about a control system, it is not completely comparable, but complaints against police officers are decided by the external public. And there's no reason for crows anymore, no reason to turn off their eyes. In the judiciary, in health care, the Nekrep case, for example, we still have such systems. And until all these matters are resolved by the National Assembly in all the subsystems of this country and these subsystems are effective, there will be problems in these subsystems by then. And by today's vote or amendment, by this article, we add another stone to the judicial segment, which is moldy [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's not good. [[...]] It's bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, has entered the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. I must respond to this debate for two main reasons. Two assumptions are wrong in this debate. One assumption is that the higher courts will no longer decide, and the second assumption is that the fundamental purpose and the fundamental reason for the amendment or the proposal for this amendment was that the courts should work poorly. Both assumptions, as I said, are wrong. The system for the higher courts to rule as a rule on the matter when they receive a complaint in their hands remains open. The possibility of cases returning to the Court of First Instance in the form of annulment is extremely limited by the amendment we are proposing today. In this regard, however, the nature of the infringement procedure must be highlighted. The infringement procedure is not a procedure in which citizens exercise their rights against other citizens or against the State, but is essentially a criminal procedure. This is a procedure where a country with its apparatus of repression acts against an individual. And in this procedure, there are different rules on efficiency and legal protection than in any other procedure. Here is the element of legal certainty that must be decisive. And it was precisely the element of legal certainty that ordered us to reach out to the existing regime with a smaller correction, with a smaller correction that opens the door for cases to be annulled and returned to the Court of First Instance to a new trial only in a limited number of cases. Let's see what's going on. It is a case of cases where, in the first stage of the procedure, one of the essential, absolutely essential infringements of the procedure has been committed. Such infringements are such that a judge who should not have been able to rule at all because he should have been expelled or if proceedings were under way on the basis of an unwarranted proposal or if the defendant’s rights to a declaration were violated or if the accused had no opportunity to use the language to which he is entitled under the Constitution or if the sentence of the judgment or decision is incomprehensible or contrary to the grounds of the judgment or decision or when these reasons are itself in substantial contradiction, they may be unreasonable. These are the cases. And in these cases it is not acceptable to accept the concept that a person whose rights were violated in the first instance in the sense that he was not tried by a judge who should have judged that he could not have used his judge, that he did not really understand what was being burdened by him because the expression was unclear or inconsistent with the reasons for the judgment that he was being judged for the first time in the second stage. And if he is convicted or found responsible, he has no right to complain. This is the main problem with this arrangement. This problem, I believe, is due to the fact that this arrangement was adopted in 2008 in an emergency procedure where it was unlikely that all these considerations and analyses could be carried out. I agree with my forerunners who have mentioned that the purpose and purpose of this arrangement is to ensure that the higher courts, in most cases or as a rule, make a definitive decision that this objective is correct. We also maintain this goal. We're not intruding on this. It's only about installing a security guard to protect the rights of those in the process. That in those cases which are most eloquent, when their ability to defend themselves is substantially curtailed, they have the possibility of having their charges decided again at the first stage and not just at the second stage. That is the essence of this change that we are proposing. As a result, we believe that the question of the possible effectiveness of the judicial procedure in these cases cannot address the issue of legal certainty. The issue of efficiency is also well-dimensionated in this debate. The statistics show that even before the introduction of this system, which prevented any return from the courts of the second stage to the first stage, there was very little of these returns. In the shorter procedure, such returns were only 5% and in regular procedures they were only 12%. In all those cases where a complaint was made at all, only or up to 12% of the cases were referred back to the first stage. As has already been said, we are confident that this correction is necessary. That this correction opens the door, that in exceptional cases the matter is returned to the first stage and is proportionate to the objective pursued. The quality of the work on which there was much talk was indeed mentioned in the debate on the Committee. She was mentioned because we were warned by a higher court. It is clear from this letter that the system, as is now in force, is systematically set up to promote quantity and not quality. And that's the problem that this security guard is dealing with. And in those cases where the most serious infringements against the accused are committed, we give the possibility that the Court of First Instance will re-judge. However, these violations cannot be equated with the poor work of the judges; they can be caused by circumstances that later turn out to be the result of a different understanding of the legal problem. Nor does the ambiguity of the judgment mean that the one who writes it is unable to write the judgment. The point is that his mental flow is such that he understands the reasoning from this judgment, and someone else who has a different mental flow does not understand it. And in this case, of course, it is necessary to protect the interests of the accused, who must always understand what is evident to him, what he is accused of, and why he is recognized as responsible. All of these solutions, as I have said, are the minimum interventions to the concept that has been introduced quickly, following an urgent procedure, indeed, I can say, with a good purpose and a goal that is certainly worth pursuing. These changes will not have a negative impact on these objectives. We will closely monitor how this novelty is used in practice. I am and I am sure that the courts also understand the reasons for this novel and that it will not happen that cases will be returned to first-degree courts to an unreasonable extent. As far as the proposal to postpone this arrangement for a certain period of time is concerned, for the reason that judges are to be educated, it is not a problem that judges are not educated and that they do not know how to do their work. Judges have already received regular training in the field of criminal law within the Centre for Education in Justice, both in criminal law and induction schools for beginners, as well as in special days of criminal law, are organised at the annual level. The problem is, as I said, that the system, as it is today, is strongly set to promote quantity and not quality. Quality doesn't really matter. This is an implicit consequence of the regulation that is in force today that the judge no longer gets his case back in any case. And this anomaly, which is also coming, which really practice has warned us, although this is not the main reason, as I said, is one of the reasons why such an novelty is adopted, which, to the most limited extent, allows matters to be brought back when this is absolutely necessary and when legal certainty requires it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft law was prepared by a project group composed of officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was also chaired by the Union of Slovenian Diplomats. The government approved the bill in October and sent it to the National Assembly. In second reading, the proposal was supplemented by amendments following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Most amendments are editorial in nature and do not interfere substantially with the content of the law. The law brings more novelties and improvements in two areas. First, in the field of job organisation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the development of the career of diplomats. First objectives: better organisation of work. The law provides the appropriate legal basis for the acquisition of the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of economic diplomacy and for the regulation of certain management jobs, such as the Secretary-General, the Director-General and the Political Director, where the specificities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs work are taken into account. More specifically, supervision in foreign representations and the competence of the Chief Diplomatic Supervisor is regulated. In the process of appointing ambassadors, the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government, the Committee of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic shall be closely regulated. The sequence has also been set, as the Ministry can only apply for an aggressor state receptionist after the interview of the candidate on the Foreign Policy Committee. The role of this committee in the appointment of ambassadors is also strengthened. The law fully regulates the issue of acquiring premises for the functioning of diplomatic and consular representations, including buildings that we or we will receive on the basis of the legacy of the former Yugoslavia. Second objective: developing the career of diplomats. Special emphasis is placed on the creation of a career for diplomats working in the internal and external services, i.e. at the Slovenian Representations abroad. The law also requires the Government to deal with the situation of diplomats in more detail with the regulation. The gradual development of the diplomat's career will help to increase the required number of working experience for foreign service diplomats, which are substantially implemented in the light of the current situation. Much attention is paid to the system of education and training of young diplomats. In addition to the existing diplomatic examination, the contents of which will be updated and updated, a higher diplomatic examination is introduced. There is a special procedure for the employment of diplomats, where the only criterion for employment will be the best result on the test test. Preparations and additional training will take two years, take place in part at our foreign offices and end with a diplomatic examination. The placement of diplomats in the external service is more flexible, following the needs of the work process while ensuring the protection of the rights of public servants and their family members. In other words, family policy also receives greater emphasis. The law lays down the criteria and circumstances to be taken into account in the placement of diplomats into the external service, it also specifies the duration of the distribution of diplomats to the external service and the possibility of the extension of the deployment. In order to improve the status of diplomats, the law also regulates the right to rest for diplomats employed in international organisations. However, diplomats who have been temporarily transferred to another State authority for the purpose of carrying out tasks in the field of international cooperation are equivalent to diplomats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which means, inter alia, that they are able to run for foreign service. The law lays down stricter conditions for the appointment of heads of diplomatic representations and consulates. In addition to the formal conditions, for the first time, the substantive criteria for determining the selection of the candidate are being developed, which is why we want to achieve the choice of professionally most suitable candidate. The law also opens up the possibility for the Minister to propose to a person who is not a diplomat, if necessary and in compliance with strict legal conditions for the Head of Representation, with a maximum of 1/10. The opinion on the competence of the said persons for heads of representation will be drawn up by an autonomous expert commission to be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on external matters brings significant improvements in the organisation of the Ministry's work and contributes to the gradual development of the career of diplomats. The proposed changes will be put in place with comparable related, professional and successful systems, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We therefore propose that you support the proposal of the law. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Franc Yuri to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues! At its 22nd meeting, on 26 November, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs as its parent working body. Representatives of the proposer, the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council and the Union of Slovenian Diplomats participated in the meeting of the Committee. The amendments to the bill are 20. 11. tabled by: SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS and sent by: SDS and SLS. In its opinion, the rapporteur supported the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS, while the amendments of the SDS and SLS MPs were not supported. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its conformity with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 29, 30 and 39. Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, presented in a supplementary explanation the reasons for the adoption of the bill. He felt that the law allowed for the further development of a system of diplomacy that was increasingly comparable to those in the European Union. He also believed that it was a law that builds the professionalization of Slovenian diplomacy, defines the specific conditions of work and the status of diplomats and develops their careers and allows better organisation of work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In particular, he highlighted the more detailed definition of management posts in the Ministry, the conditions and criteria for the appointment of ambassadors and appointments to the names, methods of education and training of staff and the arrangements for the work of the Inspector General at the embassy. Attention is also paid to economic diplomacy and the powers and responsibilities of the ministry in this area. The representative of the Law and Law Service, Anton Rogelj, explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups were prepared mainly on the basis of a written opinion of the service, which they almost fully take into account. The President of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs, Vincenc Otonič, explained the reasons why the Commission did not support the proposal. He explained that the Commission, for reasons of its decision, followed the positions of the Union of Slovenian Diplomats, which advocates exclusively professional diplomatic service or supports the applicable legal regime. The position of the Union of Slovenian diplomats, which did not support the bill, was presented below by its President, Matjaž Kovacic, who said that amendments to the law on external matters should be discussed. He expressed dissatisfaction with the provisions concerning the use of various diplomatic titles in the service, at home and abroad. In the view of the Union, uniform titles should also be used as regards the duration of the mandate of ambassadors. In the context of the debate on individual articles of the bill, Members focused mainly on the procedure for the appointment of the Ambassador in Article 11 and the selection of heads of diplomatic missions in Article 13. Regarding the procedure for the appointment of ambassadors, it has been evident among the opposition Members that it does not give sufficient role to the National Assembly or to the Committee on Foreign Policy. The Committee adopted amendments to the SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS groups. However, the Committee did not adopt amendments to SDS and SLS. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the following amendment to Article 13: In the seventh paragraph of Article 27 amended, the first sentence shall be replaced by the following: "A fixed-term contract of employment for a fixed-term period or an annex to the contract of employment shall be concluded with the person referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article if the person is employed in a public administration body. In view of the labour needs identified by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a new contract of employment for a certain period or a new annex to the employment contract shall be concluded after the expiry of the period referred to in the previous sentence, exceptionally for a maximum period of one year." As a result of the amendment adopted by the Committee, the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 13 became irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law in which amendments are adopted has been prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm here again, this time on behalf of the Zares Group. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Foreign Affairs is an important opportunity and, above all, an important legal basis for the further professionalisation of Slovenian diplomacy. More than 18 years after our country's independence and international recognition, the time has clearly come for real, professional, appropriate education, language skills and knowledge of international relations to meet the expectations and demands and initiatives of foreign policy makers. The law was created taking into account the objective need to create an effective external policy system, where both the views and demands of the Slovenian Diplomats Union and the wider and multi-layered national interests were met on the international scene, and in particular the need for effective economic diplomacy. The law provides for the professionalisation of diplomacy, by enforcing significantly more difficult conditions for the recruitment of diplomats and ambassadors, and only exceptionally enables the conclusion of contracts with international relations experts who are not employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The law clearly regulates the course and order of procedures for the appointment of Slovenian ambassadors, in a way that will no longer allow for competent and political disputes between the state's highest representatives, for example, between the foreign ministry and the President of the Republic. It also makes clear the conditions for employment and professional advancement of employees on the diplomatic scale. It also regulates procedures to recall diplomats in the event of a breach of work obligations and diplomatic geontological ethics. The Zares Group has always stood firm and acted in favour of the need for professionalism and professionalization of Slovenian diplomacy. In the event of past excessive systematic client-clientist incursions into Slovenian diplomacy, and also in the case of abuses by the foreign ministry for client needs that we have witnessed in the past, it was this parliamentary group that supported the demands of the diplomatic union and, in its previous mandate, introduced a law that closed the door to external political personnel. We also stand on these principles today. That is why we have strongly supported the tightening of the professional conditions of recruitment and have agreed to exceptions, up to 10% of the ambassadors, under the same conditions and with the aim of equipping diplomacy with specific professional staff that the MZZ does not have. In the Parliamentary Group, we will indeed support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by Jakob Preseknik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Foreign policy is a sensitive and important area for Slovenia. Because of its geostrategic position, due to the acquisition of allies and economic ties, it is very important, in particular, to open up opportunities for new markets, who represents Slovenia and its interests abroad and who holds the highest positions in diplomacy. Nevertheless, we believe in the SLS Group that this proposal for changes to the law at a time when we should take action to improve the situation of the economy and alleviate social pressures is an unnecessary waste of time. In particular, we read the comments of those affected by these changes, professional diplomats, and we can see that the proposal is missing the point. If changes to the applicable law are needed, the situation should improve and not exacerbate and cause discomfort and opposition. In our opinion, changes should bring some balance and allow for, for example, someone who has proved to be a good economist or someone who has held an important position in the state authorities for many years to represent Slovenia at the international level. The Trade Union, however, considers that amendments violate the principle of equality and promote exclusively professional diplomatic service or support the current regime. The Union believes that the effective implementation of our country's foreign policy activities can only be achieved by applying to the highest diplomatic posts only for diplomats from the types of employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but not from other persons. The Commission of the State Council has the same opinion. In the SLS Group, we believe that someone who has been in the public authorities for a long time or, for example, an expert in the economy is certainly able to realize Slovenia's interests not even to the international floor. Nevertheless, I think it is right that everyone, without distinction, also carries out the necessary diplomatic examination. That is why we have signed amendments that have unfortunately not been adopted on the Committee, and we will also support the SDS amendments tabled for second reading, otherwise we support the law in this sense to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word, on behalf of the Dessus Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Foreign Affairs Act of 2001 was amended twice, in 2003 and 2008. Some amendments and additions in the areas of consular protection, conclusion of international contracts and in the field of human resources organisation have been adopted with both amendments to the law. This latter area is also the main subject of amendment and addition in this novel. In part, amendments and additions are proposed as a result of the changed system of public servants and, in most cases, the proposer points out the need to remedy the shortcomings, uncertainties and inconsistencies that have been demonstrated through the practice of working, organising and positioning employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Slovenian foreign policy has a relatively short stock in its independent performance on an international scale, so it is crucial to realize Slovenian foreign policy interests and objectives also its entire personal structure, the humane and organisational structures of the body, that is, in the broader sense of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We believe that the proposaler's efforts to upgrade professionalism in the services of the foreign ministry also entail the construction of a system that will be as comparable as possible with those in other countries. First of all, those with which Slovenia can compare with the tradition of diplomacy. In view of this point in the DeSUS Group, on the basis of the content of the proposal, we note that a major emphasis is placed on building a career system and improving the area of work organisation. It is important to start a career early enough, and so the proposaler has already taken care of a selection of candidates in the phase of looking for suitable staff to work in diplomatic jobs, which will allow for the recruitment of the best candidates. Next. In accordance with the aim of enhancing knowledge, the proposer has provided for the further completion and training of diplomats who are preparing to take over management posts by introducing a higher diplomatic examination. With regard to the occupation of posts, the heads of diplomatic missions and consulates have not yet set the criteria for selecting the most suitable candidate. In addition, the applicant considers that more appropriate formal conditions should also be laid down for the seats mentioned above. It also seems important to us that the required working time required for appointment in individual titles abroad is increasing. In the field of the distribution of diplomats, the rigidity of regulation is evident in the current legislation and it is essential that it pursues the objective of better adaptation in the work process, as well as the creation of a more favourable environment for diplomats, professional and technical staff and their family members. In the DeSUS Group, we also have no difficulty in supporting the provisions relating to the procedure for the appointment of the Ambassador and the introduction of non-professional ambassadors. Thus, we cannot agree with the obvious that the President of the Republic, on the one hand, has too much power, and the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy, on the other hand, has too little role over the possibility of presenting the candidate and issuing an unbinding opinion, mainly because the proposed procedure has somehow followed practices and customs. With regard to the introduction of the possibility of appointing non-professional ambassadors, we believe that the 10% share does not yet pose a risk to the development of professional diplomacy and to the introduction of politicisation of these positions. In the DeSUS Group, we have assessed the amendments and additions to the law on external matters as necessary and meaningful, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u34	Have a nice hello to you all. This law was necessary and good for us to get on the table this amendment or a proposal to amend the law. In a row, we have a few comments in our parliamentary group on everything, but it's not a burning thing. It is certainly important to note in Article 6 the danger when it comes to an agreement, the question of succession for the former Yugoslavia, because this is a slightly broader matter. If we insist on a break date of 25. 6. 1991, it may happen that they will hang around our necks a secession and not the break-up of Yugoslavia, which means there will be nothing from the legacy, but we will probably not be paying into the budgets of all the other former republics. Here we need to be very careful and careful not to make mistakes, as Mr Pahor does in his statements, which are completely confused with logic, knowledge, legal knowledge, and, of course, assisted by his so-called legal experts. There is one flaw in the law, namely that the Committee on Foreign Policy only listens to candidates for ambassadors, but it has no decisive opinion as to whether these ambassadors will be accepted or whether their presentation is appropriate or not. Such a candidate can come to the National Assembly, just sit there, look in the air and smile, because it doesn't mean what the National Assembly thinks of him. That's not good. I don't think that's good enough. And the National Assembly should have greater competence in this area. But it is certainly good that people from the outside world come into diplomacy, if I say so, external experts who are not just professional diplomats. We can say that selection of new candidates is a great thing, a good thing, but it's recognized. As early as 1992, we should have a selection, and in this way we would not have at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs such a "casine" and such, I would say, in some cases even the barn as we have it. A lot of things could be changed, fixed by now. I don't know how the minister's gonna clean this Auggie barn, 'cause there's a lot of winding to do, sweep up on the road and clean it up. It is certainly a good solution, which is in Article 9, to add a new Article 16a, a security check of persons. It is time and time for this to begin. Slovenian diplomacy was the only one who did not check the safety of its employees. All the services in the world check personnel at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But there's one question here. It is said that a security check will be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think it would be more reasonable to at least write "in connection with the Owl" or something like that, but not as we may fear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will form its new, own intelligence service. I don't think that's appropriate, so it would make sense that the Minister might, if not otherwise, if he's not already in here, at least in some sub-law, correct this matter. It is also good that the duration of the deployment to the external service can be extended. I would not have been in favour of writing that it is extended "in particular because of the completion of the education of children in primary and secondary schools", as it may also be extended due to some of the interesting matters which the state has in this area. Well, otherwise, it says "especially" so that the possibility of applying this article still allows this. Once again, it is good that people from abroad or from outside and working in this area are included in this international service. One thing I want to know is, in article 36, there are two foreign languages, one of which is global. What does it mean to speak Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak, Montenegrin, or something similar besides English? I think it would make sense for you to be here on stage, to use two of the world's languages. Otherwise, we will support the law in the SNS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u36	Respectable. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that it was necessary to amend the Law on Foreign Affairs and we also went to the government coalition in a way that many experts were involved in the debate, both within and outside the field of diplomacy, and these are people involved in international activities, especially when it comes to economic contacts, when it comes to some other forms and it brings a number of improvements. Initially, those which regulate the organisation and transparency of operations within the establishment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or all services. On the other hand, it sharpens and clears the conditions for both entry into diplomatic service and final access to the highest title and position in diplomacy when it comes to the appointment of ambassadors and ambassadors of our country. We believe that the openness of the system is necessary so that to a certain extent all citizens and citizens can enter the system under equal conditions, it would be even unconstitutional in our view if some of them were closed to this extent, so that only those who are employed in Gregorčič or what that street is called there would have the opportunity to advance and reach the Ambassador. Because the conditions, 14 years of working age, language skills, working in the international field, then dealing with certain specific issues, in our opinion, are sufficient for the Ministry, the Government and all those involved in this process to assess whether someone can contribute to the quality of work in Slovenian diplomacy or not and through this sieve can come or not. In this context, it is also very important that we have measured ourselves in determining the role of the National Assembly in the process of drawing up final proposals for the appointment of ambassadors, Ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. So, the role that is defined is, in our opinion, the one that gives autonomy to experts and other bodies, which also internally, now by means of an improved law, check the competence to do so, on the one hand, that the National Assembly gives its clear and highly crystallized position to the presentation of individual candidates who are in the process, and those who are legally authorized to do so, on the other hand, can carry out the whole process in the same way as in democratic societies, and not in the way that we had the complications, not so long ago, when various instances were skipped, different levels of when it comes to when, who is asking for an aggression or permission to have an ambassador in a country do their work. Surely, the time in which we are also directed to devote to some, in public, many times to the concerns and expectations of how Slovenia will strengthen economic diplomacy and try to operate this diplomacy at a time when Slovenia's strategic interests by placing them in international space, by joining international organisations, as long as we are in the OECD, we are practically in all the international organisations and institutions that are for a democratic country like Slovenia, are expected and must also give its best team into all these international links. I believe that this law will also make it possible to contribute to some of the things that have stirred the spirits in public and, of course, we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Janja Klasinc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Each country's foreign policy is being built in the long term. Old and established diplomats built their system well long before our country was born. That was 20 years ago. During this time, our diplomacy has established Slovenia in Europe and the world, along with other spheres of our power, it has brought it not only to the European Union but also to its leadership. But this does not mean that our diplomacy has not survived all childhood growth and organisation diseases at this time, nor does it mean that its growth and completion have already ended. We Social Democrats are convinced that we are somewhere today in the middle of building our diplomacy and also our foreign policy. This is also proved by the amendment of the Law on Foreign Affairs, which we are dealing with today. The legal text follows the needs of modern times. The organisation at the foreign ministry seeks to regulate it in a comparable manner to the related countries in the European Union. The Novela defines in more detail the management posts and better organisation in the external ministry. It introduces control over the work at the embassy. It defines the education and training of diplomacy. It regulates the employment of our diplomats in international organisations, which will be particularly current in the transition of our diplomats to the common service of the European Union, as the new Treaty of Lisbon brings. Finally, conditions for the appointment of ambassadors and other diplomatic appointments abroad are tightened. All of this has been discussed in front of the public in recent months, but we have not heard much about the changes just mentioned. The improvement in the quality of the work and the stricter requirements for the performance of our diplomacy have led to debates on the legal article, which should only exceptionally allow for the performance of the ambassador's work abroad also 10% or, in the case of a number, only the fifth, maximum of five non-professional ambassadors since the other fifty. That's how stories about political personnel are brewing. This is probably not surprising, since in the past, particularly in the previous term, this has been done without criteria, unfortunately. The new law lays down the criteria for external candidates very precisely. It foresees that an external candidate could also become an ambassador, which must have at least 14 years of comparable experience in the field of foreign policy, international relations, international economic relations and international law and at least three years of leading work experience, in addition to higher education and knowledge of several foreign languages. How many such experts does Slovenia have? They're fighting a little. Those who have the required knowledge and experience can only upgrade our diplomacy. We are therefore surprised that opposers of this arrangement seem to think that someone who has been employed for 14 years in the foreign ministry is an automatic better diplomat than, for example, a university professor in whom they graduated. Or that MZZ workers are absolutely more suitable for an ambassador to, for example, UNESCO, such as a leader of the reputations of a cultural or higher education institution. Let's go to politics. Do the former Minister, the President of the Government or the European Commissioner really know less than the MFZ diplomats and could not successfully represent Slovenia abroad? Part of the diplomats' union and some others, even those who have come to diplomacy as political officials, require hermetically closing the doors to external experts. Is it really about defending professionalism? Or just for fear of competition? Foreign policy and diplomacy are not nuclear physics. The latter can be dealt with only in this field by trained physicists. A good diplomat can also be a political scientist, a lawyer, a sociologist, an economist or other viewed intellectual with international experience. Slovenia is too small to be able to afford the working book of the Foreign Ministry as an exclusive ticket for entry into diplomatic ranks. For all these reasons, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law on external matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u40	Respectable. Everyone on behalf of the SDS has a very nice greeting. Surely the thing that makes it easier to identify the red thread of the political orientation policy of the entire current coalition is duality when it comes to the difference between words and actions. We were able to find out about the words in the last term. At that time, when the current authority was still in opposition, vehemently and also with extremely sharp, even insulting expressions, it advocated the absolute professionalization of the entire foreign policy area. All diplomats, all heads of diplomatic representations, were said to be professional diplomats. Any minimal opening of the door would, after all, be considered the most gravest policy intervention and would be to the detriment of Slovenia. Thus we have heard, as we have said, many more insulting and many obscene expressions were in attendance, and we can look at the magnetogram of the then session, which is extremely enlightened for some who are sitting in this hall today. What happens when we go from words to action? Now the former opposition has a majority, and therefore it is time for action - and you will not believe it! Precisely those who have advocated that any opening of doors to non-professional diplomats at the head of diplomatic representations is an unacceptable policy intervention - they are now doing it on their own! Only this is really all the content of this law, but all the rest are things that can be arranged at any time and are really irrelevant. It is obvious that some of the debts from the pre-election campaign must be repaid, but there is no other way to open the door to political recruitment in the foreign policy area. What will this recruitment be like, we have been able to convince ourselves recently, when we learn that the person most disproportionately mutilating the state of Slovenia abroad will be rewarded with an extremely well-paid place somewhere in Brussels. The person who deceived the entire Slovenian public when she mixed concepts such as, say, the debt guaranteed by the State and indirectly by taxpayers - that is, all of us - with what is a private debt, for which no one guaranteed except the one who takes the credit, and, of course, the bank abroad credits him yes, but that is their risk, this country does not burden any of its citizens and citizens as taxpayers. And this person will be rewarded with some professional place in Brussels where he will be able to try to sell these theories at the European level. I want to know who's gonna buy them there. But that's political recruitment. An eclectic example of how this political recruitment, which you are opening to him today with this amendment of the law, will take place. So, the worst people who are just in disgrace to the government who want to get rid of them before they get angry are broken stories out there somewhere in the country opening the last sheet in court and it is necessary for the one who symbolizes this to be sent as far as possible - such political recruitment will now be institutionalized in the Law on Foreign Affairs. The embarrassing thing about Slovenia is, unfortunately, very characteristic of how the current government works. The diplomats' union, which warned that it had been in the previous term, would not believe it, almost unanimously confirmed the amendment of the law, which was the result of the previous government's listening to the position at the time and its comments, which the opposition is now destroying because things have changed, are about it and its political staffing. This novel was virtually unanimously confirmed in this House in the previous term. This is also pointed out by the diplomats' union, which claims that nothing has changed and that what has been achieved so high a consensus in the National Assembly would be maintained as a quality even further. Nothing has changed for the SDS: we are defending the same as we were defending in the previous term, with a novel that we ourselves have proposed and voted with you. Nothing's changed for us. We have the same words and actions. The difference between words and actions is obvious, great, irresistible and shameful for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Article 7 Because Mr. Friday doesn't want to. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Article 7 lays down the procedure for conducting a diplomatic examination as to how this procedure is carried out, which consists of, but not of, who is required to carry out the diplomatic examination. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this Article 7 which speaks of the mandatory conduct of diplomatic examinations for all employed diplomats at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at diplomatic consular offices. We think this amendment makes sense because for real diplomats, for real Slovenian diplomats, such a diplomatic exam must be more than a "little snack". However, there is something else I would like to ask Minister Žbogar about this education or from diplomatic examinations. I would like to know how many employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have the status or name of an authorised minister. There's Gauss' curve everywhere, and I have a feeling there's too many people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with this status. According to some information, about 200, which is outside some normal Gaussian curve. In fact, I find it difficult to believe that today any employee or any employee with the status of Minister-designate will be able to take over the embassy in Washington, London, Belgrade or elsewhere. Because there is so much of this type of staff in Youth, they also have their own interests there because they are waiting for that opportunity, but they expect to receive this foreign diplomatic service tomorrow or tomorrow. At the same time, it is worth recalling another fact that we discussed the amendment of the law on external matters in June last year and that we are amending it again after a half-second year. At that time, we also supported the amendment of the Zares Group in our Group of Members, which introduced career diplomacy and career diplomats. If you're going to read those magnetograms from, I think, June 2008, then you'll be able to see that then also then Minister Dimitrij Rupel supported this marriage resolution and thus closed his own path to diplomacy. But it is true that this hermetically closed system is incorrect, because in some ways it would also be closed to diplomats of such a kind as, as I have already mentioned, Dimitri Rupel, whom no one can deny his abilities, or Dr Ernest Petrič, or Dr. Danilo Türk. Of course, it is the principle question of the political party, really, who, at some point in time, wants to shut this system down completely and when the situation changes, there will be such a drastic change in the view of this legislation in a year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u43	Minister Zbogar spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u44	I would answer the question put by Mr Petek about the problem that we are all aware of. There are 150 authorised ministers in the Ministry in accordance with the Law on Public Servants, which was adopted in the previous term, after which you can reach the highest rank in seven years. Seven years is enough for you to reach the highest ranking in the ministries. This in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we have diplomatic titles, means an authorised minister. We have 150 of these; 150 candidates who can become ambassadors under the current law. I am therefore pleased that you will probably support at least this provision of law that increases the criteria for appointing ambassadors or diplomats abroad. We double the required number of years for diplomats to get the same titles abroad. Just because these titles we have at home are simply not comparable to our people abroad. Someone who is seven years old and becomes an authorized minister can't be a real partner to someone who is a foreign minister. For this reason, the law doubles the number of working years and takes 14 years for an authorised minister abroad. So not every authorised minister who is currently in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not all of them, or all of them, cannot run for Ambassador or Minister-designate under the new law, if adopted, can, as is the case with the new one, be very, very much reduced. With regard to the amendment itself, of course, we oppose it because the provision on the conduct of diplomatic examinations is already included in Article 22 of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has spoken to you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe that there is no need for an amendment, since it is in fact very clear in Article 7 how, how and what conditions there are for carrying out these examinations. We believe that this particular Article 7 and the other articles dealing with the professionalisation of diplomacy are a good guarantee that we do not go back from the point that we have enshrined in the previous term precisely with those amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs. It was then, as you know, a very dramatic situation in our diplomacy, because it was obvious that there were client-clientist interventions where there was systematic abuse of the foreign ministry, even its websites, for political struggle, for accounting with different thinkers. The fact is that this politicisation reached such a stage during that period that it was the only way to prevent this and to stop it, a novelty of the law that actually closed the door to such punches by party politicians into diplomacy. Today we are faced - I'm talking about the amendment, but I think it was [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u47	Peace in the hall. You've gone beyond the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u48	The amendment itself, which speaks, of course, of the criteria for the professionalization of diplomacy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u49	Please, peace in the hall. You, Mr. Franco, please limit yourself to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u50	I will limit myself to the amendment, just to clarify that what we have today on the table, including this amendment, is a systematic model of professionalization of diplomacy. And so some of the amendments that appear here try to cut into articles in such a way that, in fact, this basic purpose of the whole law and the amended law, with the amendments we have adopted on the committee, would be retained as a guarantee, as a framework for serious professionalisation and the prevention of political abuses by the foreign ministry. The tests envisaged are very clearly described. These are two types of examinations that selectively train and assess the skills of diplomatic personnel to perform such sensitive tasks or sensitive responsibilities that our diplomats abroad have. So there's no need to change this article. When there is talk about the following articles, there will also be a city and an opportunity to respond to some of the assessments made by colleague Petko. I am aware that, under this Article and this amendment, there is no point in extending the debate to this. That'll be an opportunity later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up for a debate. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u52	I think that this article could have been better written, and our suggestions in the debate were that this verification should be opened, as it is called, and that it should also involve other experts, not least from the Faculty of Law and other institutions. When this system is closed and diplomats carry out internal checks on this knowledge, there can also be questionable solidarity or false solidarity in these matters. It is clear that a diplomatic examination and a higher diplomatic examination shall be conducted before a committee composed of diplomats with experience from diplomatic practice and other experts in the field of foreign policy, international relations and international law. Of course, I believe there will be someone outside, but that allows it to be so. However, as I say, I also agreed and supported the Foreign Policy Committee with such an article. Of course, that doesn't mean I'm in favour of an amendment. On the contrary, it is unquestionably clear here that this has been arranged only because what has been said so far has been practically proved to be complemented; and it has been supplemented. The minister said here. In any case, it is now becoming, under general law, a condition for the appointment of public servants to a diplomatic title, so to speak, of this examination. Now we're just adding that. Therefore, I do not see the need, nor any great contribution, for everyone to carry out these exams in the way that is presented here. It's clear when to do it, when those emergency conditions are. Once again, however, it would be a question of whether it would be enough to make it forever and ever, whether it would be even better if these things were checked with various changes and so on. After all, things are changing, and what was in force 30 years ago is not valid now when it comes to people who entered that service at the time and are inside and who are supposed to be the most qualified. It is likely that this amendment could be attracted only because of this - and I will not, of course - because by 2008, a number of people who do not even meet the basic conditions under the law that would apply without these amendments have entered into the new law. I don't know if you were thinking about those people who are spread out everywhere and there's a lot of them, then you probably have to attract them; but I'm not going to open it because I believe you didn't think about it. I'm not going to explain some of the obvious things that have happened, so that some people have been hired by whole groups. And then, clearly, it was nice to agree with the proposal of the then opposition and the unified acceptance that now it is wonderful to close the system because we have been cadreding for the next five years or I don't know how many years. If this is what you thought you were being checked for, then you need to pass this check and see whether these people are successful or fulfilling these tasks, whether they have the right conditions or not. That would almost be necessary. If that's what the amendment says, believe me, I'll support it immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support this amendment with us, because it is reasonable to hold diplomatic examinations in existing people and in those already in the DKP around the world. Before me, colleague Anderlich talked about it. This is why I will support and we will support this amendment in our Group of Members. It doesn't hurt to be put in by the SDS, because the amendment is good and therefore needs to be supported. I think we should talk more about these exams. After all, the fact that diplomats will control or question themselves on diplomatic examinations and choose interrogators from themselves will circle a circle that I do not know if they will produce the right results. It would certainly make sense to have experts from the international economy present on these diplomatic examinations, because the most important issue is no longer the establishment of contacts between countries, but the establishment of economic contacts, because that is what the country lives on. Since "flancaria" we live only in Slovenia, where they live from the economy and from what they do. Therefore, it is important that diplomats are trained at least to some extent in this area, or else it will all be bloody thin. Another thing is that you don't get in here, you get out of your tongue. After all, diplomats are supposed to speak more foreign languages than English, and then another language. Although I am also referring here to Article 36, I think this is also done for the reason that it is essentially easier for some of the diplomats who already exist around the world to stay. I think we should tighten the conditions, because if I speak to foreign diplomats, they mostly speak a few foreign languages. Our diplomats speak very badly in English quite a few times. And the staff at our diplomatic-consular representations. If someone in the Slovenian language calls on the Slovenian Embassy, there must be an official who answers him in Slovenian, because those who travel around the world do not necessarily know the language of the environment to which they travel. Like if they go to Argentina, if they go to Chile, if there's anything going on, I know where. It would make sense - without them answering them in Spanish, not to speak Slovenian, but to simply answer - a good day, etc. - and that a person who may be in distress can talk in his own language, not get misunderstanding on both sides, and then cause a lot of bad. In short, we will support the amendment because we think it makes sense and true. I hope, however, that the Minister will add, improve and tighten in the next amendment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7? If he does not wish, I am concluding the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Yes, please, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u56	This is one of the additional topics that opens up in this law, because it is only the political politicisation or the opening of the door to political recruitment, such as the political recruitment of the Government by sending the Secretary General of the Government of the Government of Brickle to Brussels - by the way. And it is also a fine example of how this staffing will take place. This problem is somewhat broader because it touches the constitutional system of the state of Slovenia itself. In fact, the Constitution, as you well know, knows three branches of power: legislative, executive and judicial. The Slovenian Constitution does not know the representative authority; you can read it immediately if you read the first three articles. And all the time since the creation of the new constitution, its proclamations, we have witnessed a slow breakdown of the constitutional order because someone is trying to represent a function - not always the same person, but in particular two in this forerunner - to own a certain part of the authority that it does not. For, as it is said, the authority is exercised by the people according to the principle of the division of power into law, executive and judicial. And it is not the President of the State who has the last and only word in the establishment of diplomats, he does not publish invitations, he does not make choices, but it is according to the current regime - we have come from the legal order which was established at the time of the implementation of the new constitution - that was in fact the common realization of the principles of the two branches of government. This is said, in the first instance, to the executive branch of the Authority, which is also in line with international regulation and which was partly a Slovenian specialty, including the legislative branch of authority, specifically the committee responsible for the foreign policy area. This inclusion is not even necessary. We could agree that the legislative branches of power are not involved and that the executive branch has full responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the executive is not representative! However, if the legislative branch of power is included, then it should be included in the form that its position has a certain weight. It is said that this cannot be merely a non-binding opinion, which transforms the hearings of ambassadors into some kind of ritual that binds no one, but it is a legislative branch of power, but that it is at least a consensus. This is said to be a significantly more binding decision to be taken in the form of a decision. If he does not listen to this, it is entirely irrelevant, in our opinion, if the legislative branch of the authorities is completely excluded from this procedure. Because, as it is said, what proves the current events, the gold in the last year, is a minor episode where this executive branch of power and someone who usurps a part of its jurisdiction, and the executive branch of authority, of course, is silent because it happens to be out of the political nest. For this reason, it is necessary to state very clearly what is meant by the provision in the Constitution that the President of the State appoints and calls the ambassadors. The point is that he will sign a letter of confidence on behalf of the State, because he as a representative symbolizes this country. This also has a weight outside the country where this letter is submitted by a diplomat - after all the procedures have been carried out. But these procedures, the choice and everything else that is linked to the election is not carried out by the President of the State, but by the executive branch of the government. This means that this part - and this is all of you who have participated in the formation of the Slovenian Constitution - was meant only in a way similar to, say, the proclamation of the law, which is also done by the President of the State, or the constitutional competence of issuing the instrument of ratification. This is also a matter of jurisdiction, and he must not choose anything, but he already had this temptation, not just one. Remember the public controversy. In order not to sign anything, he was very quickly, very clearly taught that it was not, and in no case could it be his jurisdiction. But when it comes to staffing, some prefer that there is another possibility of further political interference, for the president of the country is also a "par exelance" policy. It can sometimes be second-rate, but it's a "par exelance" policy. This, of course, means that it is necessary to write this matter down by law so that these temptations will simply not be respected, as was meant at the time of the adoption of the new constitution. We are therefore proposing an amendment that sets this very clearly and also sets a time limit within which, following a closed procedure, it must include, as has been the custom, the executive branch of the authority implementing the procedure and the legislative branch for which we foresee a form of agreement. As it is said, if this is not supported, then it is totally irrelevant if the legislative branch of power is no longer in this process. However, it is essential that, after the procedure has been completed, when a decision on the establishment of an individual diplomat has been taken, the President of the State is due within a reasonable period of time - and this reasonable period is quantified, 15 days - to sign all the relevant documents on the establishment; it is said that the letter of confidence and everything else is, to declare his appointment and the story ends with it. Interestingly, when we considered this amendment at a committee meeting, the comment was that how can we set a deadline for it? Yes, good morning! It's like he doesn't have a deadline for other acts he's bound to carry out. You just forgot. For example, for the law, the proclamation of the law is exactly comparable to the establishment of one diplomat or the issuance of instruments of ratification and the deadline is set in the legal acts of the State of Slovenia. Even by the way, if you notice it's very similar to the number proposed here. This is not only a right, but also a duty of Parliament, where it is obvious that there is a conflict within the constitutional regime between the individual officials, but above all between the executive branch of the authority in a given case and someone who performs a representative function to attempt to escape individual powers, to transfer competences, for which there is no basis in the Constitution, but, on the contrary, the Constitution makes it very clear, once again at the very beginning, that "the people exercise power in accordance with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial! And no other, ladies and gentlemen. So it is the duty of the National Assembly to regulate this clearly by law also in a way that prevents any future misunderstanding, doubt or conflict in advance. It is therefore necessary to adopt this amendment in order to respect the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. To Article 10 of Dr. Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. First, explain why I checked out earlier. The president of the National Assembly is sitting so you don't know what you're up to, even though he's not here, you don't know whether we're discussing an amendment or discussing a law. However, it is usually so that about individual articles, about individual amendments, it is usually so obvious that coalitions are allowed to talk about everything and we are warned. That is why I expect, Mr Vice-President, that this will not be the case from now on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u59	Mr Gorenak, you know, an article and an amendment to an individual article are always discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thanks for the explanation. I'm running out of time. That's what I know, but the President of the National Assembly doesn't know. As far as the amendment to Article 11 concerns the new Article 17a is concerned, it is very simple for me to say it in a farmer's language, and for the last time, the lady warned me that it would be a better expression, so today I will be human. That amendment is clear. It prevents all situations that have taken place in the past period. President A or B, he came into temptation and he just said that, and I'm not gonna sign it. And Slovenia was free of diplomats for X months, at the time that was most critical for Slovenia. Well, that goes for the last two presidents, of course. Let us add that the President is looking with political, left and left eyes, allowing him to continue to abuse. And this article is clear. He is supported, at least in the first part, by the diplomats' union. In the first part of the diplomats' union. At the same time, this article makes it very clear what the role of the President of the Republic is. Comrade Grimes reasoned through the constitution, so his role is to sign the matter. Tomorrow the President of the State will stand up to Parliament and say so, and I will not sign this law. Yeah, where are we gonna go? Who makes the laws in this country? The National Assembly. In this case, we make it clear to the President of the State that the Government, in cooperation with the upcoming bodies of the National Assembly, is the one who decides who will be the diplomat. It's that one. And it's the president who's gonna sign this. And by this law, you give him the opportunity to reject and inform the government. For God's sake, then give him another chance tomorrow to refuse and inform the government of this, and parliament that he has not adopted any law. We will be in a situation when we do not need a government and a parliament, we will have a president of the country. This system will, however, be referred to as a kind of parliamentary democracy. So that's not possible. This article is clear and loud or this amendment defines the role of the Government and imposes the responsibility of choosing a diplomat, defining the role of the competent working body in the National Assembly and instructing the President to sign it, not to invent it and not to say anything else. So he's completely logical and perfectly normal. More on the following amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you. I see more applications, so I'm opening time to start the application. Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u62	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that today we have received from the opposition a real lesson in the division of power in this country. If we were to be aware of it more than once, this would be very good, for it is you who are mixing all the powers. I know that for political reasons, the president of the country is currently on your wallpaper. You just don't like it, just like you didn't like the last one and not the first one. What we want is, in this country we have democracy, there are elections, and most have elected candidates who are not happy with some. But most of them are, and we are here Members of the whole people. That's why I think we have to respect the Constitution in the first place. The Constitution clearly states in Article 107 that the President of the State shall appoint and recall the Ambassador and issue him credentials. Of course, we can imagine him signing it at home, but if the drafters of the constitution wanted to say so, they would have written that he was signing it. Therefore, the President of the State has every right to reject, not to sign the proposal of the executive branch, absolutely, our constitution allows him to do so. On the other hand, the second point in this amendment is your proposal that the Committee on Foreign Policy should, as it were, allow, accept and decide whether a candidate is suitable or not. The practice in the European Union is different. In the European Union, parliaments are not involved. Slovenia had this practice for some time and later changed it. And because of past practice, due to tradition, Parliament is still involved in the appointment process itself. If we were to decide on the Foreign Policy Committee on the candidate rather than on its presentation, this would mean that, of course, we should also decide on all its personality characteristics, on its verification by the competent services, on all these matters, and this is not the responsibility of this Parliament. Parliament has in particular a supervisory function in the field of foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment proposed by the SDS is a seemingly welcome amendment, particularly for Members. In the first part, he mentions the strengthened role of the National Assembly or the competent body until, in essence, a decision on the appointment of an ambassador. It has already been said here that we had this practice at the beginning, probably it was also important and necessary in those times, but now it would be a derogation from the key purpose of the law, that is, depoliticisation and professionalisation of diplomacy. I do not know whether the Union of Slovenian Diplomats supported the first part of this amendment, but I did not have this impression when speaking on the Foreign Affairs Committee itself, I had the impression in this amendment that the unions also disagreed with the consent of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Because that would mean reintroducing the practice of political decision-making in the appointment of professional diplomats, because this is where we decide on politics. However, the opinion of this body is important, because I do not imagine that the Government would insist on a certain appointment if the opinion, which is also non-binding, but if the opinion were negative and with a large majority, it would certainly be a sign to the executive power that something was wrong with that candidate and this would also be a message to the President. I think that in the first part of Article 17 referred to in Article 11, I think the order of the procedure is very clear, and that it is precisely in the consultation between the executive branch and the President to find the key to the prevention of disagreements that we have known in the past. Because it is difficult, there will be no more nominations or no more nominations without consulting the President. I agree, however, that the President's constitutional mandate is clear and cannot be withdrawn or reduced by one amendment to the level of decision taken by the President on the basis of the Constitution. The President is an important creator of the attitude towards diplomacy abroad, not only in Slovenia, but everywhere in the European Union, whether they are presidents or sovereign kings, they have this competence everywhere, and I think we do not deviate from one European refugee practice. So both parts of the amendment proposed by the SDS are unnecessary. At the beginning of this term, I was alone in the dilemma of whether to return to the Committee on Foreign Affairs the authority it already had, but the fact is that it would once again politicize the process of appointing ambassadors and I doubt that the Union of Slovenian diplomats agrees. For the verification of expertise and professionalism is something other than an assessment adopted at the PSC, which is always accepted on the basis of certain political sympathy and also the proportionality of these sympathys within the membership of the PSC. In doing so, I call on the SDS to understand that this is contrary to their highlighted desire to depoliticise professional diplomacy. Next thing. Of course, I cannot agree with such a dictatorship and such an evaluation of the role of the President of the Republic. I hope you have a good understanding of the quote from the constitution read by colleague Janja Klasinc. I do not think there is any need to add anything - the Constitution lays down the powers of the President of the Republic. And now try to loosen these powers with some law, with some amendment, just because you don't like this president, because it's not your political will, I don't think it's a good argument. While we can continue to discuss this, the fact is that the article, as it is now, allows for transparent progress and cooperation of the executive branch with the President of the Republic and with the role we have now, is that significant debate role that probably applies to other things. However, I think that this more decisive and important role of the National Assembly is more necessary in other matters, not in such enforcement matters as the appointment of an ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u65	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u66	This Article and the amendment shall, in particular, try to regulate the order of tasks for the appointment or appointment of an ambassador. And since this is obviously a rather complex process, first of all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government, the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and so on, it is right to arrange this in the most efficient and transparent way. Even if we can agree that you want to strengthen the role of the National Assembly with the amendment, the Institute of Conciliation is a hard-core, mutually exclusive institution. For if the whole procedure is carried out in such a way as to determine whether the Minister acted or the Minister acted correctly when he, and also took into account all the circumstances, the needs of the State for appointment in that country to which the Ambassador was to go. If the Government has agreed to do so, then it is sufficient for the National Assembly to give serious consideration to this proposal and to the circumstances in which this proposal arose and to give its opinion. In the end, the President of the State is the only one who will sign it, and I know that there has never been a problem when the previous stages would have been properly carried out. And if the previous stages go badly, in concoctions, through or through force, then consent is not enough, because the President can do anything again. Because under certain general rules, he is responsible for these matters. I am not satisfied with the way these presentations are taking place before the Committee on Foreign Policy, so that when Mr Jerovšek held his position in the drawer after three weeks in the previous term, we had to give an opinion overnight, or as it is now, it is no different. It's not a real role, but it's up to us. The fact that we get the material on Monday, and Tuesday morning at 8 o'clock, by chance, at the next board meeting, that's nothing. But how can we possibly agree if we really don't want to talk about our opinion? I believe that when it comes to the procedure, and we have also talked about this several times on the committee, when we have considered that when this law is in force, there is something standard in the country, in the field of the functioning of diplomacy and so on, it simply cannot happen that someone enters the system. We are now also improving through exams, including by sharpening the conditions for entry into work and so on, so we are working at a qualitative level more for this than for the process itself. And there is no wise policy to say: of course, the Minister, the Government, the Committee and the President of the State, they are all connected, they are all conspirators and they work badly for this country. That, I think, would be very difficult to prove. Thank God, this democracy is so made that we have a directly-loved President, that we have a different Parliament and that the Government is coalition and so on. If we had any other system, which many have also advocated, it would be possible to do otherwise. But now it's good luck. Maybe it'll be different in another republic, but to her, at least I'm sure I won't wait for her, because even as threatened, it would be a joke. That is why I will not support this amendment, because I am betting on improving the whole system, as the law stipulates. We'll probably do something else in the future. We are achieving higher and higher democratic standards in these procedures. Those who will be employed in the future at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and will be candidates for ambassadors/embassies will have to meet stricter criteria and I believe that we will also take these proposals more seriously in the National Assembly and finally give an opinion with weight. An opinion with a weight that is more difficult than a consensus because of me. For if you only give your consent, it is yes or no, but if you record in your opinion that some presentation of a candidate is inappropriate from this, this and other reason that, in the opinion of Members and Members, there are so great reservations that everyone should consider whether this procedure is valid to the end. Also, since the host country is at the end of this story, because it is not just the story I was talking about, but it is also the recipient country, we have some reverse problem right now, hot, in Slovenia and wider. I will not draw on the language of those not to talk about those things here, but to go to the consensus institute to shoot it, actually to shoot it out of a democratic process. And again, as I say, I believe that we have already reached some standards and that we will improve them and that is enough to prevent me from supporting the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. If it's a wish to discuss it. I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u68	It's very fun to listen to this debate, congratulations on your humor when you talk about what SDS "feeds" and what not, which is a literal quote. You know, if you haven't noticed we advocate that the key word should have an executive branch of power, namely the Government, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, but it is your government, which means that it is completely contrary to what you say. In fact, what you are advocating is obviously a door lock for some additional political recruitment or some covert political choice that is even questionable from the point of view of constitutional order. And that, in fact, it is just this, just a simple fact, all of whom in the past period have become entangled at the level between the executive branch of the government and the representative representative of the state, were people with long-standing practice in the Foreign Ministry, with long-standing work in professional diplomacy. And even that large group of diplomats who were delayed would remind you, they were all, without exception, professional diplomats. So much for how obvious it is again, how big the differences between words and actions are.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u69	Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Minister. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to say that I support this amendment, and I would vote for it, but I would say that it is at this amendment that we could have a lesson on the subject of "from words to actions" or "how we changed our opinion overnight." Let me remind you. Last year, your colleagues from the current position, then the opposition, "for the prime minister" advocated a career way of recruiting in diplomacy; the other was not possible at all, because it was the only one that led to the professionalization and depoliticisation of this recruitment. This is the only way to get a good, career diplomacy. Now that the situation has changed when you're the majority, now it's the other way around. What was once persecuted is now the real thing. And what you have previously advocated, you now justify for the same reasons that this system will now allow the depoliticisation and professionalization of this profession or recruitment in this area. That's an interesting thing. And let me tell you that now this salad mortal, which is not the only one, is as much as you want, but in the field of human resources it is particularly interesting to remind you of the dictatorship of years ago, even from that previous country, how interesting it was, say, described one and the same act, because it reminds me of that. In fact, it was said that the norm is a socialist way of rewarding a worker after work, but a capitalist way of exploiting an employee for his work. But what's interesting is that at the time, millions of award-winning workers went into the exploitation system. But it's the same thing here, it's just a word game, because you justify two different things, two different approaches with the same arguments, and that's not going to work. Another issue concerns citing the constitution to the President of the State to appoint and recall diplomatic representatives. Yeah, I'm pretty well aware of that myself, and I've listened well, but I'd like to remind you of something about setting up and calling off. This is also linked to responsibility. Has anyone forgotten why the president didn't put three diplomats for Slovenia in the most important countries, Moscow, Berlin and Washington for a quarter of a year? We haven't had them in three quarters of a year, and now you're wondering why the Croatians were so successful in some areas, and we're playing a five-pronged role. And all of Croatia's views are adopted, and even some of us are being pressured. Can you believe it? Who we had to represent our positions in Moscow for three quarters of a year, and in Berlin for three quarters of a year and in Washington for three quarters of a year. Let's not even talk about political responsibility in these countries, for example, thinking about what we Slovenians are, not sending them an ambassador. Can you imagine? For them we were a banana republic, while Croats were joyfully lobbying because the president did not set up or call off after the constitution. Why didn't he put it up? That was very professional. I don't know what else to say. As far as depoliticisation is concerned, I would say that; if the President of the country plays a greater role, that does not mean that this will be the case. Will that be in terms of recognition to Mr. Ertle? This was probably very professional and depolitical or apolitical. I'm sure it was. That's what they say. That's not an argument. There are probably other procedures that are more important. That's all I wanted to tell you when I mentioned Mr. Ertle. That's not an argument, and that's not how it's gonna be. Again, the president of the country is also a political function, whether someone likes it or not. That's how it is. And, of course, that's why I support this amendment because I don't believe that maybe tomorrow you wouldn't change your view of what is the right way, what is the right system, what is not, because you've already replaced it since last year. In this matter alone, and in addition, we have been without ambassadors for three quarters of a year, I think in six or seven countries, of those three most important to Slovenia. There are also reasons why we have this status, because, as far as the talks, arrangements, integration of Croatia into the European Union and the resolution of the border with Croatia are concerned, this is also because we have not had a quarter year of ambassadors in these countries, because the President of the country has not set or called back what is written in his constitution and I support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag, asked for the floor. Samuel Žbobar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, the Government does not support the amendment because it interferes with the competence of permanent institutions and individual branches of government. First, I would say the role of the Foreign Policy Committee. I think it's been a long time. All I would say is that we have examined systems in similar countries in 11 countries of the European Union, which are comparable, where there is not even a similar role of the CAP as it now has in decision-making, or parliaments is not involved in decision-making on the appointment of ambassadors. We ourselves thought it was right to strengthen the role of the Committee on Foreign Policy in order to give an opinion on the presentation. And as has been said before, I cannot imagine a government that would ignore or reflect on such an opinion. That's why I think the diction as it is is correct. With regard to the President of the Republic, reference has already been made to Article 107, which clearly states that he is setting up and calling off ambassadors. In addition, I would remind you of 20 years of practice when the President of the Republic was consulted in due time on the proposal for the appointment of new ambassadors and there were no such problems. This is not the case that happened last year, since 1991 we have a certain practice of how ambassadors were appointed and the President of the Republic has always been consulted. We have now only codified this into a draft law to record what is in it after the constitution and what is also practice in Slovenia for 20 years. As far as last year's package is concerned, I would like to point out that the vast majority simply did not meet the legal requirements under the current law, which is still in force so that they can be reappointed ambassadors. With regard to this, where the reasons for our status in these large countries are, I would just like to remind you that I have been with the Secretary of State in the United States six months before my Croatian colleague and that we have signed the South Stream with the Russian Federation as well, I think, quite successfully. So we can't talk, and we need to break this "fam" because there were no ambassadors, but our relations with these countries are worse than they would have been.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm opening time for applications for discussion. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the explanation given by Mr Minister, which sums up what we have already said about this amendment. But I have a feeling that today the opposition is still under the strong impression of yesterday's Republican Assembly and that it brings this spirit to Parliament. And I want to calm them down. I think the Minister can also assure them that there is no Mr Ertle in the game for ambassadors. Something like that could never happen again. This happened in the previous term when we even appointed ambassadors without adequate education. They didn't have the right education. What was commanded then? Ordered the competent ministry to recognise the education immediately. And you know, this has also been proven in the media, and yet nothing has happened, but these things will never happen to the new law again. This policy interference also takes place on the professional side of what level of education there is no doubt. Therefore, do not worry, fellow opposition members, no one is interested that the practice you have put in place in the previous term continues. In this respect, the purpose of this law is, and in this regard, the purpose of Article 11 is to coordinate the work of all actors who decide in a comparable manner with other European countries which decide on the recruitment and appointment of ambassadors. I think it is precisely Article 17 that offers a methodology of work that is comparable to all mature democratic countries, and I do not know why the SDS would want such an amendment, that Slovenia withdraws from such a fugitive, good practice in the European Union and introduces some self-government spirit also through a political assessment that would take place in the National Assembly. It is right for the PSC and the National Assembly to retain their debate role as well as their role in drawing up an opinion. This opinion will certainly be taken into account. I believe that there are many other chapters where the National Assembly has a greater role to play, not with the ambassadors, because the Ambassador is part of it, he is the official of the executive apparatus, which must, in a super partes way, "by partisan" in a way to represent this country. In the Committees of the National Assembly, there is one political option, that is, a coalition, always the majority, and with this majority, it can have a strong impact on the progress of this appointment. Today, the opposition has a minority, it can have a majority tomorrow, but we must avoid these temptations, and I try to influence recruitment through political assessments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u76	A brief answer to the two issues, with all due respect for the foreign minister, whom Mr Minister has just said. First, in that group that went on hold, people were the conditions under the legislation under which they were appointed, fulfilled and were professional diplomats - you can check - which is very interesting. That's one. The second thing that needs to be further demanted is a fat lie, Mr Minister, that it did not harm us that we did not have ambassadors in the key countries. Now let me tell you: the Ambassador of the Republic of the Czech Republic to the Union of NATO, the head of the German delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the four US senators, with the Senate in America covering foreign policy, the former Foreign Minister of Great Britain, who is a member of the British delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and, you will not believe, even the head of the Croatian delegation on some occasion - they all asked me the same question: "Well, people of God, what did you think at a time like this, when you want to pursue some interests, you did not send your ambassadors to key ambassadors around the world?" This is said, above all, to talk about Washington, as well as all the other important countries that have already been listed. It is said that the claim you made - and I can prove it with witnesses at any time - is not only not true, but gravely misleading. The fact that we did not have ambassadors at a crucial time to exercise the strategic interests of the State of Slovenia, such as smooth, unhindered territorial contact with the open sea, therefore access to the open sea, was extremely, extremely harmful for the State of Slovenia. And the culprit is the one who did not appoint ambassadors there and who has usurped this right and has no constitutional and legislative authority at all. And this responsibility, if you tolerate it quietly, you all bear. The last word the government should have, and then, of course, it should be implemented immediately. Those of you who were involved in the drafting of the Slovenian Constitution know that this provision in the Constitution was exactly the same as thought and what is the purpose of the founder when a single provision is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I think the opinion of the competent home committee on the candidate for Ambassador is sufficient, and there is no need for consensus in this case. I believe that Article 11 of the Law on Foreign Affairs specifies precisely the procedure for the appointment of an ambassador. The appointment of ambassadors is of course a very sensitive matter, both a sensitive matter for the proposing State and for the country to which the candidate is going. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, also asks for agregated host countries and therefore is also a major part of this confidential process. When we receive an invitation for the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, which gives an opinion on each candidate, there is no record of a person or case at all, it is closed and in accordance with the Secret Information Act. And that's how we had our session this morning. It ended at 10 a.m. and good morning after this meeting already on the website of the Slovenian Press Agency, we can read the exact report on the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, on the candidate's whereabouts, then all other agencies, 24 hours and so on, so that I do not advertise any websites. It is therefore necessary to appeal to all involved in this matter that they adhere to the Secret Data Act, not that the news from closed meetings has been leaking to all the media after a full or good hour. I don't know, I can't personally point to anyone here, but I would appeal to everyone involved to respect the laws and behave accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you want a word? May I close the debate on Article 11? I conclude the debate on Article 11 of the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Pretty short to stay with the others. Article 13 is also clear, preventing the amendment, preventing the entry of non-politicalism into diplomacy. What you wanted and was realized in the previous mandate for objectivity and truthfulness, and at least a little scattered fog, which is being unleashed by some in the form of terrible demagogies in this House. For 12 years you have been suffocating in your own way, besides the diplomats, because you have made one of them your own, to your left. Let's move on. In 2004, another government came along, and you recognized two people who were supposed to be politically staffed. Vik and scream for two years. Parliament, with our support, that is to say, then the government, will impose a decree that is clear, only professional diplomats without politicians or whatever they are called. Today, look at him, today after a few months or a year, and that's how it's not right again. This provision, however, fully supports the Union, fully supports the Union to ensure that something is not wrong. So today this is not right, because it's your turn to recruit politically, and that's fine, and it's called demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u81	Mr. Gorenak, have you finished? Please. Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The number 13 is unfortunate. I have to say that I am really amused by such discussions when it is obvious to us that I have changed my opinion from my previous term, that I have been employed for 12 years, etc., believe me, and I have not so many abilities, but thank you very much for giving them to me. It has been said that this amendment seeks to prevent the entry of non-politicalism into diplomacy. My opinion is quite the opposite. I think it's high time in the temple of diplomacy to open the door a little bit. Until I came to the National Assembly, I must say, I had a different opinion on how to choose diplomats. Then, as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee, I could see how this was going. Believe me, before that, colleague Anderlich said he wasn't happy with how this was going on, and sometimes I wish I'd said no to anyone. I think if the only criterion for some is how long they sit on the Youth, these people who think it's for the first time, or diplomats, or secondly, they're not honest. Yesterday in this House, we heard a debate on public servants, how good it would be to open this room to young, capable, professionally qualified people. Why can't we say the same about Slovenian diplomacy? Why do we always talk only about political and nonpolitical personnel? This law allows for an opportunity. This law does not introduce this as a rule, but allows those 10% who can or will not. This law introduces very strict criteria. It is not possible for someone who has not sat for a certain number of years and has no experience at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to come into Slovenian diplomacy. He can't. If you've read the law, then you know it's not true. At the demagogue level, however, it is easy to say that now we are opening the door wide to politics and left-wing political personnel who will go abroad have a fine diplomatic service. That's just not true. As it is said, the conditions for someone who comes out of diplomacy are extremely strict and cannot be just a diplomat. He can't. I think it's right. The opposition also spoke yesterday about capable personnel coming out of the system. For God's sake, since we're small, I don't think we've got anyone else who's capable, but it's not politically defined. I think we do. But if you are convinced that we do not have such personnel, that we only have politically defined and poor staff, then you feel differently from me. But we can have politically defined and good staff. It can’t just be a political card, or the amount of time a person sits on the Bridegroom, enough reason to become a respected person in such a ministry. What about other abilities? The knowledge of languages, a broad view, openness, if you want the ability to communicate, has already been mentioned. Such a diplomat is sometimes lacking. I absolutely support the solution that is in this law. I am not changing my mind, because, gentlemen - I'm sorry, I have never been able to tell you before in my previous term, and you will now realize that you will not be able to tell me that I am changing my mind from the previous term: I think that such a system that opens the door is a good thing. As it is said, we are talking about 10% who will or will not be, there is a possibility, and it is not possible to say that they are born there across the road, a little further away, exclusively there and are raised by the best diplomats. It's just unfair. Many good diplomats have Slovenia abroad. These people represent the State of the Republic of Slovenia and are not just some emissaries. And I think it is right for us to open this space to other, capable, competent people who will know the Republic of Slovenia, the country, if you wish, honestly and proudly represent it abroad. I cannot support this amendment, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. So far, I have reported Mr Grims, Mr Anderlich, Mr Jerovska and Mr Beblerova. After these discussions have been concluded, I will give you time to re-apply. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u84	Once again, I must congratulate the Coalition for Humor. For if I summarize, say, the words of Ambassador Zares, they are perfect for today's defense of these solutions in the law: "For professional diplomacy we will fight so that every 10 will be set politically." Perfect logic, good for a laugh. But if we continue to work out, given the situation: "We will fight corruption in the coalition by bribery every 10 years. We will fight poverty in such a way that every 10 will become poor," well, the poor in such a government will all be, but certainly there is some consistency in this, but the matter is ridiculous, and I hope you will admit it yourself. [[...]] What appears to be from such funny language as the coalition now speaks is that it is in great distress, which, of course, is the obvious huge difference between words and actions. Same SD party, go see what she said in her previous term. The same SD party doesn't know anything today. Yeah, well, amnesia is a general phenomenon there, probably an epidemic, we've talked about this a lot. It is interesting, however, that both the reals and SDs talk about political recruitment in the previous term. Yes, Borisa Sovič, it is true, you should be honest and say, Borisa Soviča has indeed sent the previous government abroad, but, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know, to Mr Pahor's personal request so that if you want to account with your Chief of Government, you could do it within the coalition meeting for the last time, or within the party, if this is an interparty accounting. You will admit, however, that later we listened to your warnings and stopped the possibility of political recruitment and went on a purely professional assignment. Why this is now being abolished is more than obvious from the case of political recruitment for a European institution, which is a school example of how these cities will now be staffed. Mr Milan M. Cwickl, Secretary of Government, is going to an exceptionally well-paid place abroad, this is a school example of how it will be suited for abroad in the future and why it is necessary to do so. Of course, because now that there will soon be a judicial epilogue, and it will be clear that that massive terrible big bang from Finland will become a major divide of the current coalition, people who symbolize it, which is a symbol of lies, will in some way be removed from the public's eyes as long as possible, because they are a disgrace in the government, but if they do harm abroad, they will obviously not worry. And that is why this law is actually changing, so that this work is institutionalised and we will not support it in the SDS, and therefore we propose that an article allowing for political reintegration, in particular in the light of the practice of the Government, which is already obvious, be completely deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There was a bit of a misunderstanding, Mr Grims, because you weren't talking about diplomacy, you were talking about it, but I knew you were talking about it, so I said, it doesn't make sense to interrupt, because stopping you means you'll talk even further. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u86	When we talk about this article and the amendment, we must first find out, at least as far as I am concerned, that I am glad that things are changing and that people are also changing their minds. After all, we still wouldn't have a recognised theory of Darwin 200 years ago if some institutions hadn't changed their minds to some extent, but I don't think they believe it now. But this is about something like that. It is the matter that, however, both the Ministry and all those dealing with these issues consider it necessary to open up the system to the extent that, in constitutional terms, this profession is accessible to all those who fulfil the conditions, and this article strengthens the conditions for entry into service and the performance of all these matters. By deleting when you say that it is necessary to delete means that you do not agree that standards are raised, that conditions are tightened, that there are increasing conditions for someone to come to a place or to possess as much knowledge as possible, and that he is most willing to carry out tasks in favour of the country, so if we delete it then we do not have it. You're only talking about the 10% who allow the possibility of blowing up this ministry even in the part that I would have, before, talked about at one amendment, I'd like to see that we go to see which one needs to be sent back to some exam and see if they can continue to perform their tasks. We meet with such people who do not take one note of important events in some countries, do not inform or warn about what is important to this country, etc., and drive beautifully in the shadows. This reminds me of that part, in 1989, there was some rationalisation in the previous country and there was also a diplomatic network on the wallpaper, from the South American country, the ambassador, Yugoslavian, did not send a report for ten years, and that year it was discovered, and every year they sent it to him, and then they found out, but there we have an ambassador. He was recalled immediately. If I hadn't sent that report yet, we wouldn't have known, and I'd have stayed maybe after Yugoslavia fell apart. We're talking about a real event. Here too, of course, I was exaggerating, even here could be found something that is settled, and through these criteria and these tightenings for progress and for moving through the hierarchy, inside, let's say the Youths and then, of course, our diplomatic services abroad, which would undoubtedly have to be done. If we want to, this is a long-term task, improve the structure, really do this job as we all expect, quality, highly trained, respectable, etc., then we have to start it somewhere and in some way enforce it, and I think that this article will contribute to doing so. And that's why I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I wonder if there has been political recruitment at all levels, but those were the political games that have prompted Minister Lahovnik to boycott the coordination of the coalition. In fact, this is the minister who proposed the proposal for professional diplomacy and was confirmed in the previous term, and now the coalition is incredulously denouncing the opinion and efforts of its minister. Of course, I cannot agree to such double criteria, duality, improbability and, of course, I wonder, Mr Minister, I read your interview, I think that in the evening, as you said, it turned out in the past that all the candidates in the package of thirteen, unrealised, political, partying. You said a lot, because I only know about two people who would be anywhere near us, but a large majority of those 13 were from the parties to the current coalition. Then the current ministry is highly unilaterally coloured and Slovenian diplomacy is clearly irrelevant to your coalition, nor does it matter to you. [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] experts, because through that minister's statement, you are assured in the diplomacy of absolutely your own people, party people. [[...]] Unfortunately, this is a cruel reality, and yet you are changing the law in favour of political recruitment in order to expose [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Secretary has asked for the floor. Mr. Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. First on behalf of the government. I must say that we oppose this amendment. For practical reasons, the deletion of this article would create a legal void. In fact, with regard to the criteria for the appointment and appointment of ambassadors, it would be the only condition in law that seven years of working experience at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and an authorised minister. I think the solution would be completely unacceptable. I would say here something that I already said on the Foreign Policy Committee, namely that professional diplomacy is not just a closed system. And I think it's more important than this 10% professional, but not career diplomats or ambassadors, it's more important and it's more important than these five professional ambassadors, who will come out of the Ministry and who we'll know exactly who they are and who will leave the Ministry, it's important how we'll form a ministry from below. I think that's where the foreign ministry is being built, and here it's a shame that in the 20s it hasn't been possible to build an external ministry, that there are really the best people coming up to the Ministry, but they're not. We know that unfortunately they are not, and this law is working on this, this bill you have is working just to make sure that the people coming to the ministry, the young people, that the best will come, solely on the basis of the results, the exams they will perform, and that then someone will build a career with them throughout the system. From words to actions, it goes from actions to words. Let us remember 2005 and 2006 how many political ambassadors were then appointed 2007 to close the system. So there is also no consistency here from the actions that were in 2005 and 2006, when almost a third of the ambassadors were politically appointed, until today, that everything must be closed. I agree with those who say that the professional system of diplomacy must be professional and so we must build it. However, it is possible to allow the possibility, as many European countries do, as an option to call on a professional, career ambassador to the system. In this marriage, all these guards are built in. It's not some politician coming out of the sky. The conditions are exactly written, the criteria are exactly written and an independent group will be set up to confirm the election of this ambassador. This is a real option in the event that the Minister will decide that there is a possible more suitable candidate outside the house than in the house, and there are only five, out of the 600 people we have in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u92	I would only ask the distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly if he could ask the Minister for an additional explanation, because he said that the best staff had not come to the top within the Ministry, whether this also applies to him personally or to him personally in the first place, because, as far as I am aware, he came to this ministry as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u93	Mr Grimes, this is not a procedural proposal. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment alone and the other amendments tabled by the SDS, because I cannot support them either. In particular, because in Article 13 it is not, because, in my profound belief, just as an amended article, as it is now brought in by the proposal of the novel, it actually fulfils one of the fundamental conditions, which is that this law can also be in conformity with the Constitution. I am convinced that the law currently in force in this part is not in conformity with the Constitution, because it does not respond adequately to Article 49 of the Constitution, which speaks of the same access to the same job for everyone under the same conditions. Nor is it in line with the International Covenant on Economic and Social Rights, which we have ratified since we established our own country, the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that even if any of the previous comments flew to the current members of the coalition and to the previous opposition who supported this amendment, which was proposed in June 2008 or specifically this amendment, which was tabled on the committee itself by Mr Lahovnik, and then imposed this solution as an amendment to the Committee on Foreign Policy, that the system had become quite closed. At that time, I did not support this amendment, aware of the difficulty of such a solution in terms of compliance with the Constitution. Also, as I recall, then Member Joseph Školč, who was from the opposition at the time, also opposed this amendment. Well, let's just leave it at that. As it is said, the proposal now made by this novel is indeed sufficient to require that the law comply with the Constitution and also with other international treaties ratified by the Republic of Slovenia in the meantime. I have been alone in several mandates of the National Assembly, and I have always been a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, so that I have had the opportunity to monitor the various stages of this arrangement, as well as in practice. Let me remind you that sometimes we had ambassadors who were geologists were dramaturists, linguists, translators, doctors, chemists - interesting, right? - as well as gym teachers, comparatives and so on. But let me say, the truth is, the truth is, some of them were great ambassadors. But let's put this thing aside now because it doesn't matter right now. Let us say that the current amendment requires certain conditions for potential external ambassadors requiring professional competence, and this is that experts in the field of foreign policy, international relations, international economic relations or international law must be. Given that we have decided in the last period to give priority to so-called economic diplomacy, let's say, the truth is that there are probably not many people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who would be in favour of the demands of this direction in order to support, above all, so-called economic diplomacy. And one more thing. Indeed, Slovenia is not such a very large country in this option of recruitment of truly qualified, quality personnel that it would be appropriate to close all doors to those who operate elsewhere in some comparable areas where they have matured and reached a level where they are indeed considered to be recognised experts. Why would people like that if they wanted to work in diplomacy, but the Priors gave up? We have also worked out in this article how these potential external exams will be conducted, how they will have to prove themselves first with their skills and so on. I am convinced that this amendment of the SDS is not acceptable, of course not, and that there is no way to support it. Since I started by actually adopting this novel, which is now in force, let me remind you that it was quite interesting, in a way, when I look back, a grotesque situation at that foreign policy committee's meeting. The people who were led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, immediately negotiated with each other quietly, or these seven years, when they were to serve at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were sufficient conditions for those who had them in the drawer somewhere, or, as is said, on the lager prepared for these candidatures. And they quickly counted themselves and said that seven years of working experience at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was enough, of course at least the minister was spared because he thought that he had been employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that he had a working book there, that he was also employed as a public servant, was not, he was an official, a minister, and that he had that past period when the minister could not count and could not count them after our regulation but could not count them in his work experience. As it is said, this amendment is not acceptable and I will not support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I see more reports. I'm opening time to report to the debate. Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It seems important to me to say one more thing. There was so much talk about some old and new times and double standards. Yeah, right. There were other times when he was sitting at the foreign ministry and being led by another minister. And back then, there was the rule: foreign policy -- that's me. Now it's a new time. I welcome you to new times. As we all know, the best foreign policy is a coordinated and coordinated foreign policy. And in this foreign policy there is no room and it cannot be only for one actor, but for at least three. And I am convinced that the current government, the current minister and the current President of the Republic know this very well and are aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u97	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I do not have a problem with this 13th article, my fellow SDS, and I will not support this amendment. Why not? It's simple. I think this circle needs to be extended and the 10% we have is opening the door somewhere. But in spite of everything I'm going to say, there's no law that could lay down this matter, and I've determined that we can do the best we can even recruit. I think that this is much more dependent on the individual skills of the person who is in charge of this ministry, the one who has a view of how foreign policy will lead. I think that this must, in particular, be a set of several acts, good deeds, indeed a generally good state policy. We also have diplomats from our species, the Slovenian People's Party, France Booth. When the union came to talk to us, to our parliamentary group, I also asked the question, "Yes, what do we have, because we also have the ability," because I estimate that Mr. Franci But is a capable ambassador, and the trade unionists have also assigned me. Normally, when the boss changes, she's got her eye on her, and she can be unhappy, I'm talking about the current boss, but I wouldn't be asking or making any accusations because I don't know how she is. But it opens my mind or my thought that we need to look for capable people at all levels, but it doesn't matter where they come from, they can be completely apolitical. And there's one more thing. We may even not be aware that the diplomat's profession is difficult, responsible. A profession that requires very good knowledge, a psychophysical condition. To do this work truly well, you must also be prepared for many things. We've seen people who imagined diplomacy a little differently than a glamorous act than just walking around and not knowing what beautiful parquets were like when they came to work, what they soon realized was not a job for them, and they just quit at that point. We must not afford this, and we must see that this diplomacy is indeed taken and developed in this direction, so that it represents well the interests of the country from which it comes. And one more thing - these people should love the state of Slovenia. That's a prerequisite. Domestic education and patriotism must be a real priority in these people. The most decisive should be that they can represent our country in the way we expect them to. Today there have also been some criticisms against the president of the country, and on how someone behaves and whose is and whose is not. Look, I don't have a problem with that. Even if I have not been for this President, this President is now my President and I want him to work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. However, his gestures, which I think are not right these days, are not good, but, please, we cannot discuss this anymore, I do not like them, but the President is mine, ours, and I would simply like the President and all of us to act in such matters of great national importance, also appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I cannot accept this amendment without amendment to the other three articles. Thank you, Mrs Bebler, for reminding me that some of us sitting here, the Social Democrats in particular, have no amnesia, far from it. At their age, some very well recall why they voted, and not least, the arguments for this, or some of us who were not in this room at the time, had a very well-formed opinion. Article 13 is an essential article for me, which builds on the importance of the law and saves not least the way and the way out of the road that we have reached in the last year in both the National Assembly and, last but not least, the Government itself when it proposed names and staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is based on the current modern diplomacy, which is a practice developed in countries of parliamentary democracy, that we know both career and career diplomats. Perhaps I should return, however, and recall that Slovenia, in the area of diplomacy, has put itself on its feet and has formed its diplomatic network, which, of course, stemmed from the diplomacy of the common former country, the so-frozen words of Yugoslavia, and that at that time, the individuals who have recently entered diplomacy have recently entered due to their other expertise, their high skills and their diplomatic experience, and that we have come to the point where we are today, to Slovenia's entry into the European Union and also to other foreign political successes of our country. This was 20 years ago and therefore this 13th article is so important that it builds not least on experiences, positive and negative, and builds itself a system of judgment, criteria of knowledge and competence. In this light it is therefore necessary to be realistic and to conclude that all the efforts made to raise this professional competence of Slovenian diplomats, which has undoubtedly produced visible results so far, are not entirely sufficient for all the needs facing Slovenian diplomacy and the country today. As a result, there are two additional arguments at all times for internal education and training at the external ministry, which improve the content. Firstly, we still have a small selection of diplomats, and therefore those who have grown up in this new country within the Slovenian Foreign Ministry need a wider range of individuals. Today, we have just heard from my predecessor about the good cases of individuals in another profession who are doing wonderful diplomacy. And a few more of these should be mentioned. On the other hand, we have some diplomats who have come from behind the writing desk from Mladika, who have moved, unfortunately, only for a writing table somewhere at the embassy and there, unfortunately, are not enough criteria for diplomacy to be carried out. There are no criteria for being employed at the Ministry can only be the only one, as such one cannot bear what diplomacy is abroad and thus the representative of Slovenia means. Secondly, objective giving, which is also in the field of personnel, dictates the size and number of citizens of Slovenia. We need to know that we are citizens by number, as far as we are concerned, so it is necessary to find ways to recruit those people who are best suited for this and are subject to the specific criteria set out in this Article. Don't let me go any further. Article 13 is one of the summits of this law, which is why I fully support it, and I believe that we will come up with this set of criteria and, above all, competence to an excellent diplomatic network and to all those perceptions that have been given here. If we looked a little bit ahead of each other, we would see what kind of enrollment our country has achieved in the last 2007 and 2008 period by appointing some of the ambassadors in the immediate vicinity of our Europe, not to distribute and talk about some of the cases of our country's representation around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Clearly, Article 13 is one of the key articles. It was expected that the debate in the direction the opposition wanted with its amendment, which I think is very rude and irresponsible, would also spark. To propose deleting one of the key articles of this Act means returning to the previous system, to a significantly lower level of required conditions for the professionalization of diplomacy and some false landing, to display this amendment as an amendment that would cheer up the professional diplomats' union. It's not like that. We know exactly that the opposition is trying to abuse some legitimate desires and expectations of the diplomatic union, which is concerned that the category of professional, professional diplomats will be protected in an appropriate manner. And that's what we're talking about. We have also spoken with representatives of the union, we understand their concern and desire to ensure this professionalism through the closure of the system of personnel, but we believe that, given their expectations, which are legitimate, the solution should be added to the flexibility element, which is based on tightening the conditions for the appointment of ambassadors. I think that Article 13 is crucial and also very clear, and I will only read it in some of the parts that I think are particularly talkative. The head of the diplomatic office or consulate may exceptionally be appointed, i.e. those 10%, a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has university education, has at least 14 years, repeat, 14, not 7 years, 14 years of comparable work experience in the field of foreign policy, international relations, international economic relations or international law. Where do some esteemed opposition colleagues see 10% of the political workforce? No, 10% professional. This 10% makes it possible to include diplomats operating outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who also have at least 14 years of comparable international experience where there are no adequate profiles, personnel, such as economic diplomacy. This means essentially added value. It means that diplomacy, which is professional, which is 90% built on professional diplomats from the foreign ministry, can be added a segment that can help this diplomacy to create some specific requirements of our foreign policy. And this is this added value that is very compatible. In time, I think the union will agree, which is very compatible with their expectations. Expectation of all is the professionalization and expertise of Slovenian diplomacy. Article 13 provides this expertise and professionalisation. Therefore, I say that the amendment of the opposition is completely irresponsible. And there's something else I'd like to say. This article allows for such professionalization, where there will be no more opportunities for excesses as we have witnessed in the previous term. I repeat, that was just the way it was. And if someone didn't have the right education, that's not why. They instructed the Minister of Higher Education to issue him a certificate of appropriate education. And that's what happened. And then nothing else. For 7 months we waited for an agreement of a Latin American country and non-professional diplomacy, then a non-professional diplomacy led by an apparently unprofessional diplomat, although his whole life, at least even political life, was devoted to foreign politics, but he evidently unprofessionally estimated that a delegation should be sent to that country, to make it difficult and pressured to issue an agrema in special cities. Look, Slovenian diplomacy can no longer afford such embarrassment. And that's what happened back then. And that is exactly what prompted the proposal of the Zares Group to conclude with one intervention law, which essentially implemented the legitimate and justifiable demands of the diplomats' union. This union, which you are trying so deliberately and politically to defend today, and in fact, you are abusing one noble idea of diplomatic unionists, was in fact most subject to the very will of unprofessional diplomacy represented by the then minister. And that is precisely why there was an extreme proposal that I would not fully agree with if I were to sit in this mandate at the time. Because I know the system and the functioning of the foreign ministry and I also have some experience in diplomacy. I know exactly what is sustainable in ensuring such flexibility. And then I would advise my colleagues, however, to consider sharpening the criteria and this added value that diplomacy can acquire, as set out in Article 13. So it is clear that the situation at the time was dictated by some measure, some amendment to the law, so that the practice, which was obviously normal and led to serious excesses and the embarrassment of Slovenian diplomacy at the world stage, would not continue. Let's say that case was one of those eccentric cases. Now we finally have a chance to settle this situation. I still think that most of the union's comments and expectations are taken into account, but the union is a union and it is concerned that trade union interests are enforced. In some countries we also know the institute of dynasties, diplomatic castes, are families that remain in the ranks of diplomacy, and it is almost a tribalally inherited privilege to work in diplomacy. This is also happening in some European countries. We don't want that kind of thing. We wish that the basis for a diplomatic career is professionalism, professionalism and that is why 90% of diplomats operating within the foreign ministry are added the possibility of drawing on excellent staff, which are named only under such conditions as have 14 years of comparable experience to contribute to improving the diplomatic activities of Slovenia in the world. And I think this marriage is an opportunity. Of course, we cannot support this cheap and demagogic attempt to delete Article 13; we will not support it, because the purpose of this amendment is not to help the union to help professionalisation, but to do something to prevent the system from improving. History does not speak for the authors of this amendment, in particular it does not prove their consistency in defending professional diplomacy. Here I could list many more examples of how the professionalisation of diplomacy took place in the previous term, but we have no time here, nor is it the right place to start and conduct such analyses. Well, one more time. Indeed, it is behind this law and is also behind this 13th key article on the professionalization of diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Grimes. Mr Grimes, please let the proposal really be procedural, because otherwise I know you're taking advantage of the possibility because you don't have time anymore. If you do this again, I won't give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you. It is a purely procedural proposal, Mr President. If I may ask you to reproduce and place this vote on the bill on amendments and additions to the law on external matters, which introduced a completely professional composition at the embassy, because you will not believe, everyone on that list who voted for it would, of course, be extremely welcome in the previous term, with the exception of Mr Gantar and in the spirit of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u105	Mr. Grimes, I'm asking you to stop. You know this isn't a procedural proposal. You said, you can get an extract from your computer, and please don't abuse the rights you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u107	May I conclude that we have exhausted the debate on Article 13? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I turn to Article 26 and the amendment to Article 26. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 26. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go. Mr. Minister Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to say a few things very briefly. Since there has been a lot of talk today about foreign ministry diplomacy and people, however, I would like to say that there are many good people in the foreign ministry, many, especially young people, who are very good people. I would like to say that diplomacy is a very nice profession and also a very difficult profession. Of course, it's a nice profession because you know new environments, new cultures, but it's also a difficult profession for different reasons, not only because you work 24 hours 7 days, but also because you have one great responsibility to represent the country through the image of a diplomat, through the conduct of a diplomat, through the performances of a diplomat, not just an ambassador, people get an image of the country that these diplomats represent. I myself have had the experience of judging the image of one country through one friend, who was a very good diplomat, and through this I also created a very good image of the country, when there came a switch and another diplomat, but it was something completely different. Who are diplomats outside, how they behave, how they perform and how they represent the country, is of the utmost importance what the image of Slovenia creates in the international community. It is therefore very important that the system that nurtures these diplomats, who educates diplomats or builds their careers, is also as complete as possible. We were just trying through this supplemental law to introduce some larger system, some greater normality in building this diplomat's career. That is why we have at the beginning of this entry criteria, so we have a diplomatic examination after two years of traineeship, a higher diplomatic exam, a sharper conditions for progress, a larger number of working years that will be comparable to creating some predictability of a career, that people who are the best to enter also know that they will go through these steps and that there will be no temptation to skip the stairs for these or other reasons immediately to the top. And that is why I appeal very much for the support of this law, which is much more than the 10% that are most widely spoken of in public. As far as 10% of this is concerned, I'd just like to mention what I forgot to mention before. Under the current law, as stated, we simply will not be able to appoint an ambassador to the OECD next year because we do not have such a candidate in the foreign ministry. If nothing else, we need the support of this law. The OECD must have someone who is an expert in finance, who is an expert in economic matters, who is not a diplomat. And that's not in the Foreign Ministry. If for nothing else, because of this and due to similar cases that will still be, I think that there are five professional people who are not from the foreign ministry, that it is very appropriate and that this will be particularly encouraging to build this professional diplomacy that we are otherwise building. Article 26 is merely that the Government does not support the amendment to Article 26, since it is necessary to regulate the possibility of being a diplomat who is a diplomat who, in the event of serious breaches of contractual obligations in the external service, is able to temporarily move to the internal service while the relevant procedures are under way. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I conclude the debate on amendments to the law. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Point - Defence Proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction of Objects Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give my word to the government representative, mag. Mr. Zoran Kus. Mr. Master, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! You have before you a law on changes and additions to the building law. In fact, the objectives and objectives of amending and supplementing this law are within a rather narrow framework, as it is only a matter of adapting and transferring certain provisions of the two Directives, namely the Internal Market Services Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive. The two basic laws which transpose these two Directives are fundamental laws, while some provisions must also be transposed by certain other provisions. And so is the building law. The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt a law on the construction of buildings in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I ask Vice-President Franco Jurša to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 11th meeting on 12 December 2009, the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction of Buildings Act, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 43rd meeting that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, the Engineering Chambers of Slovenia, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Services of the National Assembly. In addition to the basic material, the members of the Committee also had the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the proposal of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia for the creation of an amendment, the amendments of the parliamentary groups and the opinion of the Government on amendments. In the introductory presentation and explanation of the articles of the bill, we were informed by the proposer's representative that the proposed solutions were being transposed into the Slovenian legal order of the requirements of Directive No. 2006/123-EC on services in the internal market. The draft law follows the principles established by the Directive for the provision of services and activities by providers established in the European Union. The proposal for a new law also deals with the issue of competences for the integration of professional qualifications and the issuance of certificates for citizens of the European Union. However, it also regulates in more detail the conditions for the provision of services to providers and third-country nationals. The legislative and legal service which examined the proposal for a law in terms of their compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect made comments to the following Articles: 1, 2, 5, 13, 20 and 22. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled by the SD, Reals, SDS and DeSUS had taken into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on individual articles, with the exception of the comment to Article 20 of the law on [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] an inappropriate approach to regulating legal provisions. [[...]] However, it is not possible to take these comments into account because it is necessary to cut into articles of the law which do not change with the proposed law. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, in its opinion, endorsed the proposal for a law and proposed to examine the possibility of implementing the principle of reciprocity, the record in the directory of the Chamber and the payment of membership in the case of the occasional conduct of regional professions and alerted the Chamber for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Slovenia, with regard to the exemption of temporary identification of membership in the Chamber in the case of foreigners and Slovenians with acquired education abroad. [[...]] In the context of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with Articles 126, 128 and 130, 131 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments included. In doing so, the Committee also adopted its amendment on the proposal of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia. The amendments of the SD Group, the Zares Group, DeSUS and the LDS were also adopted. However, the SD Parliamentary Group's amendment was not adopted by the Committee. After a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after the discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the members of the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects, which includes and adopts amendments, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As far as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction of Buildings Act is concerned, it is a recent time for us to adopt it. Not to be a mistake, not to make the proposal so good, but time is running out to comply with EU directives. The final deadline for harmonisation is December 28th this year. The provisions must in particular amend those relating to the condition of the provision of services and activities with a existence of reciprocity for EU providers. The proposal also newly addresses the issue of competence to recognise professional qualifications and the regulation of the area of liability insurance for damage. All these changes are due to the harmonisation of the law with European legislation. And in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that a number of things should be changed in the building law. This time, however, the Government proposes only compliance with the European directives. We will, of course, support the proposed changes in the Slovenian People's Party. However, we are still convinced that the Government should fully update this law in order to make it more favourable to citizens and, above all, to investors. Once again, we stress that it is essential that laws are not harmonised only with European directives. Certainly, the experience we have gained in this area, particularly in the construction of buildings, should be built in and the shortcomings we have received and identified, incorporated into these laws, in particular in this law, so that investments can see the light of the world more easily and more quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u116	In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law before us, since it is mainly about the introduction of a European directive in services on the internal market and a directive on the knowledge of professional qualifications into the Slovenian legal order, which needs to be done by the end of this year, while additional requirements for amending the law will arrive. The proposal for a law deals exclusively with the preparation of those Directives in the field of the provision of services and the activities of foreign providers in the field of construction and spatial planning in the EU and Switzerland and other contracting countries. The proposal for a new law also deals with the issue of competences for the integration of professional qualifications and the issuance of instructions for EU citizens. However, the conditions for the provision of services to providers and nationals of foreign countries are also more detailed. The bill is also coordinated with the professional public, i.e. the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. Their comments were also taken into account in the amendment form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'm going to use what I like to use a lot of times: not all the gold that shines. And not everything is good when it says in the explanatory statement, either adaptation to the directive or adaptation to European legislation. My colleagues told me that this law went surprisingly smoothly and smoothly through the mother’s working body, convinced that we were regulating something that was necessary and that was good for everyone. I don't know, it's a very messy marriage and he's a pain in the ass to read, it would be much nicer to read some beautiful Slovenian old book. If you looked at all the articles that are changing, you found some kind of inertia. In spite of the fact that in almost all the articles, the most important were paragraphs 28, 29 and 34, deleted paragraphs, which set out precisely the conditions for citizens of the European Union, for citizens of Switzerland, if you wish, and for third-country nationals who have to comply with them if they wish to work in the architectural and design field in the Republic of Slovenia. And, well, logic says, now we have to remove it because we're all supposed to have equal terms. What if you read it right, or they have it? They don't have them. You are already separating three types of citizens, Slovenian, European [[and Swiss]] and the third species are nationals of third countries. But the saddest part of this is that it is actually an equalisation between Slovenia and those from third countries, but Europe has the advantage. You will say that it is not true that we have abolished discrimination. That's not true! I will read you just one sentence from Article 34b: "The provision of the directive we adopt prohibits Member States from requesting compulsory insurance for service providers from a provider or body established in their territory." This directive prohibits me, the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, from asking the one from the outside who will work on projects or architecture to protect what he does, like all Slovenian architects and projects. Is that how we're like strangers and Slovenians? I've read it three times, I've read it four times, and you can't convince me it's not true. We have little in the Slovenian National Party that everyone else is more equal than the Slovenians. And you're even convincing me that this is about eliminating discrimination. It hurts. It really hurts. It follows domestically that everyone will understand that, under this Directive, under this law, which you are likely to adopt, foreigners will be able to work without supervision, to design that without knowing that they will meet the general conditions and even without securing their activities, or at home, they will not be subject to the legal order as is the case with the Slovenians. It clearly states that Slovenia, a Member State, must not seek insurance from the provider or from the body. And it says that that's why not, because the insurance that a foreign contractor has, the foreign designer from where he's from, for example, in Austria, is enough to do that. First time. Is that true, or is it enough? Another time. Where's the surveillance? He's not in this marriage. Third time. It's just a little bit of a stretch. And this is once again discrimination against the Slovenians, who as servants of this Europe, when we collect directives by long and fast, without reading them, humbly bow down, and again I am surprised that the chamber of architects and designers, who are internationally recognized, has not "rebellious" or has not read this law enough. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will certainly not support it in the Slovenian National Party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The delegation of the Group of Social Democrats will support this law in any way. The new Law on the Construction of Buildings follows the principles established by Directive 2006/123 of the European Community for the provision of services and activities by providers established in the European Union: the principle of administrative simplification, the principle of non-discrimination, the principle of justification for requirements with important reasons of public interest, the principle of proportionality of the prescribed requirement and the objectives to be achieved by the request, the principle of the prohibition of duplication of equivalent requirements and verification. The new amendment also deals with the issue of competence to recognise professional qualifications and to issue certificates for European Union citizens. One of the most important innovations is the transfer of competences for the recognition of professional qualifications to the competent professional chambers, that is to the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, as a public authority. Similar arrangements are known to almost all countries where compulsory membership is prescribed in professional chambers, as they are already conducting qualification procedures for their nationals. The proposed regulation is also in accordance with the provisions of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Recognition of Professional Qualifications, which, following a new one, allows the delegation of powers to the Chambers or other organisations with special law. The proposed solution is more economical and rational than the current arrangement when these procedures are managed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, since the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Chamber of Engineers of Slovenia are at the disposal of the relevant staff and organisation, and they carry out similar tasks as a public authority for Slovenian citizens who have obtained qualifications in the Republic of Slovenia. Here, by the way, I would like to say that, even after the current law, both chambers are subject to later supervision of the implementation of the provisions which give them the power to recognise the licence of individual operators, both architects and spatial planners and the Engineering Chamber of Construction Engineers. This is because if they violate the terms of the licences issued, they may be deprived of the licence and the same applies, here is the equality of citizens of the European Union who come to carry out similar works to us so that they can also be deprived of the licence to carry out activities in Slovenia. The proposal also further regulates the conditions of providers and third-country nationals, as well as certain harmonisations of legislation that prevent the reversal of discrimination against Slovenian citizens compared to European citizens. The proposal also further regulates the conditions for the provision of services. In the process of drafting this Act, the Group of Social Democrats also wanted to make certain amendments to the law that do not relate to the transposition of the European Directive, but we agreed that we would also be waiting as soon as possible for additions and amendments to the building law in the sense that there would be opportunities to carry out certain activities, activities that this law currently does not allow, in particular those that are in the express public interest. We are also looking forward to another novel of the law, which, if I may say so, will be of a more internal Slovenian character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, Your Honor! This is an extremely important area, which does not only cover a narrow area of construction. The construction of a facility is only the final stage of a broader process from planning and placement into space, taking into account the requirements and directives on environmental protection. The requirement or wish of the investor is that the object can be built as soon as possible. Last but not least, it affects his price. For a long time, we in Slovenia have had the hypernormality of an area that no one has yet been able to address. Even more so, as the number of bureaucrat hunters who provided for the various interests of the investor has been reduced, the procedures have been more liberalised, extended and irritated, as each has added its contribution in the form of a new contribution. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the basic approach is as regards the area as a whole, or just the construction of facilities to eliminate the hypernormity of the area and cetovo monopoly for individual narrow segments, or, if you want, usurpation of individual narrow areas. This amendment of the law shall be carried out in order to harmonise or adapt to Directives of the European Union, such as Directives on services in the internal market, Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and even Directives on the free movement of persons. In order to be able to implement this law, it will also be necessary to amend the law on the recognition of professional qualifications. This means that it is not a normal change of law, but a systemic change. In this case, it is the transfer of the competence of recognition of professional qualifications to the Chamber of Architecture and to the Engineering Chamber. So far, this has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Whether it's good or bad, it'll show time. There's gotta be something. It's about creating and legalizing a cesovo monopoly, which is basically not good. The normal consequence is the closure and monopolistic determination of the prices of services as the most visible and identifiable consequences. Therefore, coordination with the directives of the European Union is not the root cause, but even the result is possible. Also because this change in the role of reducing hypernormality and simplifying the service and process of building buildings or, if you want, even appreciation, this change is not at this stage, we will not support the proposed change in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LAW, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Zoran Kus, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! You have before you a law on changes and additions to the law on environmental protection. This law also provides a basis for the transposition of the three Directives of the European Community into the national legal order, namely the following three Directives: firstly, the Directives on the integration of aviation activities into the Community's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system, secondly, the Directive on the quality of external air and cleaner air for Europe and thirdly, the Directive on the Community's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system, briefly referred to as the Directive of the ETS. These three Directives are the basic purpose of transposition, but not entirely. It is only a directive on the inclusion of aviation activities in its entirety. The External Air Quality Directive has already been transposed into the Environmental Protection Act. There were two other regulations missing that had not been passed on to the Environmental Protection Act. With regard to the ETS directive on greenhouse gas emission trading, we only transpose two articles. Only two basic articles, which were necessary for transposition by the end of this year, until 31 December 2009. In addition to these three directives and the provisions I have set out, we have concluded in the Government that we can also add some minor changes and additions to the environmental law to correct some illogical content or definitions that have been overtaken in some way by time. He's determined fewer of these, he wouldn't specifically mention them. That's all, actually. This is not a systemic amendment to the environmental law. The system law, of course, needs to be amended when we address broader, more complex content, when we fully transpose the greenhouse gas emissions trading system, namely the 2009 Directive, the ETS Directive, when we now adopt in Copenhagen a climate agreement that will actually bring negotiations for a new climate energy package. In short, then it will be time for all these provisions to be fully transposed. It is likely that the ETS Directive will have to be transposed earlier, as a new climate package can happen in view of the adoption of the climate agreement to take a little longer and then the transposition into the national legal order will probably be later. That's what I'd add as an additional explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I therefore ask President Bredo Pecan to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 11th regular meeting on 26 November this year, the Committee on Environment and Space Protection discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Environmental Protection, which was sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure, as the College of the President of the National Assembly also approved it at its 43rd meeting on 9 November. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Municipal Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Council for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to maintain sanctions in the implementation of the chimney activity, amendments and the opinion of the Government on amendments. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out in its initial opinion that the proposed amendment constitutes such a comprehensive intervention in the provisions of the current law, which would require the preparation of a new law in accordance with the Nomotechnical Guidelines. In particular, the proposed enforcement solution was highlighted by immigration in the new 157.b., which strongly deviates from the provisions of the system law governing the administrative enforcement procedure. In doing so, the applicant does not substantiate the proposed derogation. It made specific comments to the following Article of the proposal: Articles 5, 6, 9, 11, 13, 15, 16, 21, 23, 24, 29, 40, 43, 52, 54, 64, 69, 71, 73, 74, 75, 76 and 78. The draft law was also addressed and supported by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council. In the context of the second reading of the proposal, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, while the Committee also adopted its amendments. Within the time limit set, amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the Zares Group and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia at 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16, 21, 23, 24, 29, 40, 43, 52 and 54 - to this effect as four amendments, to 69, 74, 75, 76, 78, 79, 80, 81 and 82, for the new 82nd and 83rd paragraphs. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Zares Group and DeSUS Group of Members - Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retirement Party on 64th, 69th and 73rd, Slovenian Democratic Party Group on 64th and for the new 80th Article and Member Breda Pecan on 64th and 65th Articles, and for the new 80th Article. In its opinion, the Government supports all amendments of the Social Democrats' Group, the Zares Group and the LDS Group of Ambassadors, rejects all amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, the Zares Group of Ambassadors and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and Members of Breda Pecan. The Committee adopted all the amendments of the first three parliamentary groups, which I have already discussed, and all the amendments of the Group of the Social Democrats, Zares and the DeSUS Group of Members. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 64 and Ambassador Breda Pecan to Article 64 of the bill. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for the new 80th and Members of Breda Pecan to both articles have become irrelevant, as these amendments are substantively linked to the amendment to the 64th Article, which the Committee has not adopted. The Committee adopted its amendments to Article 2, Article 54, to amend the text of the new Article 139a and the editorial correction of Article 139b to Article 72 and Article 79 of the draft law and to amend the amendment to the amendment of the Coalition's sent groups for the new 82a. After the discussion he then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thus prepared for the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u128	the text of the Supplemental Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u130	which is an integral part of this report. [[...]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u131	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings also to the representatives of the Ministry. We have yet another proposal for a new law that transposes European directives into the Slovenian legal order. This time it is the Environmental Protection Act, which complements or alters the scope of the greenhouse gas emissions trading regime. Let me start by reminding you that Slovenia will have to purchase in the market, due to the lack of commitments made by the Kyoto Agreement due to higher emissions, the biggest culprits being transit traffic and too slow technological reconstruction, emission exceedance vouchers worth €80 million for the country for four years. Slovenia will transpose the European Directives into the novel, which also includes aviation activities in the greenhouse gas emission trading system. Decisions on this have been made, as is known, at European Union level in the middle of last year. The fact is that air transport is also an important polluter and is now involved in emissions trading. Currently, negotiations are under way within the European Union that the sector should reduce emissions by 10% to 20% by 2020. The inclusion scheme will also require air carriers to monitor releases and report this to the Ministry, which will therefore allocate emission vouchers. In 2012, 80% of the coupons will be provided free of charge, and then, with the aim of improving technologies and consequently smaller releases, there will be an increasing share of free coupons by 2027, when free coupons will no longer be available. In the course of this debate, aviation representatives warned that this coupon trade could cause our air carrier even more financial difficulties than they already have. Of the current Slovenian air carriers, there is only one who currently has no financial problems. The novelty also brings some changes to improve the implementation of the law in the field of environmental consent and authorisation and the existing emission allowance trading system. The amendment of the law also concerns the operation of the ECO Fund, to which they wish to accelerate the acquisition of the necessary funds, as they have found that the current way of providing favourable long-term loans with the State guarantee is too late. The proposal also sets a limit on the amount of pooling of the fund secured by the State guarantee to 20% of the amount of the trust fund. The legal guarantee will thus allow faster access to favourable loans from the funds of international financial institutions due to a reduced guarantee procedure, for which no specific law will have to be adopted until that amount. The proposal also foresees some changes to improve the functioning of the environmental protection system. This is the way to transfer the financing of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of the environment with the Ministry of Environment and Space to the National Assembly. The audit will no longer be a condition for obtaining the status of a non-governmental organisation acting in the public interest in the field of environmental protection. Moreover, the law will no longer be a concessional act under which a concession for the use of natural resources can be granted to a foreign legal or natural person.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u134	Dear Mr. Vice President, the House of Respect! The new law is extensive. The law has so far undergone many amendments proposed by several amendments, such as the articles of the law itself, which proves that the law is bad and needs to be thoroughly corrected, but should certainly be dealt with on a regular basis. With this law, there has been quite a few bad experiences so far, so it does not appear to be premature and thus to close down the space in all the areas concerned. We must not allow ourselves to be brought into our economy, the environment and the legal order of mistakes through the procedure of the reduced procedure, because these have been too many so far, and it is time for us to learn something from this. The interest of the State, the interest of the protection of its own economy, the presence of the national exceptions made possible by the Directive is too low, so that the partners in the negotiations are also representatives of the Slovenian industry. Members of Europe are very careful to accept the changes and have put the matter into procedure and are waiting for the outcome of the Copenhagen meeting, which proves that you do not always have to be first at all costs, only to be liked. The Government justifies the adoption of legislation with three directives dealing with aviation emissions, greenhouse gas trade and the External Air Quality Directive, following a reduced procedure, and justifies that this will not have any financial burden for the country. In fact, it is to allow four operators to initiate a procedure in order to implement the inclusion of their emissions in the trading scheme. This proposal is in some ways acceptable, but it does not convince us that it is true, because, as it is set, it has a broader impact on the law itself. The level of reduced emissions that we adopted in November, which speaks 30% to 45% confidently, will never bind the developed ones, since an agreement that is supposed to be secret, which speaks of certain sources, will allow the rich almost twice as many releases as the others. Scientists' opinions on climate change are different and contradictory, it points to sea cooling, which is a completely different theory and that sea level is still lower than it was in 1940. We often see in the media when they point to rising sea levels, because of global warming, but scientists are not united in this, as the vast majority talk about sinking the coast, because it is a completely different story and is silent about it. It also draws attention to the well-prepared business plan of environmentalists defined by US political parties, since the environment is a rhetoric of political games. Climate change is certainly also expected in terms of cooling, and the policy theme is how to sell new taxes to people for harmful emissions. The U.S. Congress Senate made a statement on the views that America was supposed to represent. The position was expected. That he will not even discuss this before 2010. So President Barak Obama in Kobenhagan will have no binding powers. It is safe, however, for Kobenhagen to see a new agreement on the consequences of greenhouse gas emissions, and a new international agreement will be put in place to replace Kyoto, which will expire. Warming or cooling, due to the sun’s radiation, is not considered to have an impact on scientists, so it does not show this account to scatter money when we are offered questionable technologies that are financially burdening people and we do not see how and when the matter will end. For 2011, auctions of carbon dioxide release licences are launched throughout Europe. At the expected price of 30 euros per tonne, only electricity will grow by at least 30% and, consequently, everything else. Of course, it manifests itself after all that we hear and read, to imagine whether we should believe the one who follows the money and benefits him financially, that he also speaks the truth. We will not support the new law proposed in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President. Honorable representative of the government. The honourable Member. Fellow Members. The concept of the Environmental Protection Act, second in Slovenia alone, is based on understanding nature as a whole and consequently comprehensive material and legal treatment of environmental protection. Because of the concept of integrity, the law contains common and fundamental principles of environmental protection, one could say that it is a small environmental constitution. Outside the legal framework of the area as a whole, there remains only the preservation of nature and the treatment of genetically modified organisms, of course, the use of natural goods such as water, forest, agricultural land, game and fish. Due to our specificities, especially in the use of forests, game and fish in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that such a solution is logical and also good. The concept of integrity of the Environmental Protection Act is positive, since a different regime, regulation with a greater number of laws, would require the transposition of each of the many directives a specific law and regulations. It would also require constant change in European legislation to change the type of laws and not just one. This also shows the conceptual advantage of the Environmental Protection Act, since changes in one law do not require adaptation and modification of others. Due to the directives already adopted and the desire for further simplification of procedures, the law will have to be re-adapted by 2012. For this reason, we also agree in the LDS with those who estimate that it would be best to prepare a new law, of course, within the existing concept. The amendment under consideration is, in particular, an adaptation of the environmental law due to the adopted Directives, by transferring their requirements to the applicable legal text. The first Directive regulates the inclusion of aviation activities in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system. The deadline for transposition is 2 February 2010. As soon as possible, it is also important for our eight airlines with operating licences to be able to implement procedures in time to include their greenhouse gas emissions into the trading scheme. Another large-scale directive, which we can call a directive on greenhouse gas trade, is devoted to less space in the novel than we would expect. This Directive substantially amends the way in which emission vouchers are distributed, by gradually introducing a public auction of emission vouchers. The fact is that most of the requirements of the Directive need to be transposed into the legal order of the Member States only until 31 December 2012. By the end of this year, only those required for the operation of the emission allowance trading system after 2012. As this is a matter of professionally demanding and extensive changes in the LDS, as I have already mentioned, we are committed to being included in a completely new law on environmental protection. However, only those matters which are missing from the applicable environmental law are transferred from the third Directive on air quality and cleaner air for Europe. Of the other amendments and additions to the LDS, the following are highlighted in particular. The novelty is newly regulated by the Kyoto Implementation Programme. After the current arrangements for the implementation of this programme under the responsibility of the Ministry and after the proposed amendment, the task shall be transferred to the SID Bank. An amendment is proposed in the field of environmental benefits, whereby municipalities will no longer independently determine the higher environmental duties due to the environmental burden of local importance. In addition, it should be pointed out that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities has already defined the revenue of certain environmental duties as the revenue of the municipality. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome the transfer of funding from the Ministry of Environment to the National Assembly. The transfer will certainly allow for greater independence of the Environmental Protection Council and its greater constructive and critical nature towards environmental protection providers. Whether the Council for the Protection of the Environment will be able to take advantage of this fact will show time. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the view of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, a proposal for a law is necessary, a legal solution that is justified and necessary and important, so we will support the bill, desiring to have a new law on environmental protection by the end of 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Tom Mencinger has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Social Democrats Group supports the bill's proposal, as it is a priority regardless of respect for all European legislation. I must say that in the Group of Social Democrats we do not agree that adaptation to European directives is too fast. The time limits laid down must be respected and taken fully into account in any matter, otherwise they are followed by penalties which Slovenia would not have avoided in some cases. The three directives introduced by the amendment of the law are each of themselves and together very important and Directive No. 2008/101-EC is no exception. The greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme should be amended in order to correspond to the upgraded management of climate change and its consequences, in particular in terms of the inclusion of as many pollutants as possible, as air carriers are no doubt. We also believe that the deadline for air carriers to adapt to those provisions is appropriately laid down in the Directive. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the addition of the draft law on the basis of Directive No. 2008/50-EC on the quality of the external air and cleaner air in the European Union, which we have mainly transferred to our legal order. In particular, we are pleased to require that action plans be established and that legal frameworks be set for cross-border cooperation in the event of air pollution, where this includes the area of several Member States. It is important that they lay as soon as possible a solid basis for implementing enhanced air quality control measures. Directive (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council In fact, 2009/29-EC is complemented by Directive 2009/29-EC. 2008/101-EC. Directive (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council 2009/29-EC as part of the climate and energy package is accompanied by Directive 2009/29-EC. 2003/87-EC with a view to improving and extending the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system. In addition to extending the scope of trade with the inclusion of new sectors, it seems reasonable for us in the Group of Social Democrats to determine the total amount of greenhouse gas emission allowances at European Union level as a whole, provided that the distribution is fair for all. A gradual transition from the free allocation of auction rights as a rule for the distribution of greenhouse gas emissions after 2013 will be a final attempt to implement the principle, the polluter pays. A solution that exposes operators of devices from sectors exposed to a high risk of carbon leakage to distribute all coupons free of charge is also on the spot, we believe. Determination of rules on monitoring, reporting, verification of greenhouse gas mission reports and rules for accreditation of independent [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] reports at European Union level due to major differences between Member States are necessary. [[...]] This is certainly a sub-area that will have to work without distinctions, in particular without differences down. We also do not see any obstacle to the European Union's trading system for greenhouse gas emissions trading with other such systems and to mutually recognise greenhouse gas emissions rights, regardless of whether other systems are even less developed as European or not. As has already been said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on environmental protection. We believe that this is a smaller step, but in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The consideration of the novel Environmental Protection Act is now substantially premature. When all three Directives of the European Union referred to by the Government are carefully read and read the proposal for a law proposed by the Government, it is clear that the implementation deadlines relate only to two chapters in one of the Directives and not to the need for implementation of the whole Directive, because some things are not yet fully agreed in the Directive or the interpretation of the legislative text is still in the process and coordination. Most of the legal obligations under the Directives shall be transposed into national legislation by the end of 2012 so that a new system can be put into operation. 1. 2013, with the exception of the two articles mentioned above. Another very important argument that we have cited in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the proposal to withdraw this point is the Copenhagen climate conference. Anyone who knows the consequences that could be the result of this conference does not work out conclusions so quickly and easily. The main thing envisaged by a possible global agreement is whether the Treaty provides for the re-examination of the criteria for sectors, the exposure to carbon leakage, to achieve the agreed objectives. The European Commission has already made clear in its accompanying text in the directive that it will re-examine and sharpen the criteria set after the international climate conference in order to achieve its objectives. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, they may have made good use of the full text of the Directive, as they introduce the text of the Directive into the long and wide scope of the law. This will be necessary sooner or later, but these are not the requirements imposed by the Commission. In the current consultations between the Commission, industry and other stakeholders, it is clear that coupon trading will take place at European level rather than at national level, as envisaged by the proposed law in those articles. In the field of aviation emissions, it should be examined whether the transposition into Slovenian legislation is appropriate and complies with the requirements. The draft law, as it is prepared, is not an appropriate response to the requirements of the Directives. But if he were, he's not consistent enough in his content. There is also superficiality and inconsistencies. The proposed law does not have to be considered and adopted as a priority, but it does not have to be left to the point where the country can play an important role in protecting its own interests and the interests of its industry. The country should consult with the Slovenian industry and cash in the national exemptions made possible by the proposed directives. Since many things are going to change, a few more revisions of this law will be necessary later. Slovenia will smile before the Commission when they are sent to Brussels for review of the law, including the final provisions of the directive, which the Commission will find premature and does not meet the requirements of the Directive at all. The transposition of Directives should not only refer to "copy-paste" transfers of articles, adaptation of articles and the adoption of a rapid procedure under the deadline. It is necessary to wait for the outcome of the Copenhagen climate conference, where matters are exacerbated and complicated. Although we still believe that the law is pre-written and that its improved version should be addressed at one of the next meetings, we have also tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to try to address municipal waste issues properly. In addition to spatial planning, a particularly problematic issue for local communities is addressing the issue of municipal waste, which is particularly pressing because it is not regionally regulated by cooperation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the treatment and disposal of residues, the treatment of municipal waste should be intertwined among public environmental protection services. Of course, support for the bill itself depends on the adoption of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This law, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, of course, has undergone many changes, but these changes are largely part of the fact that we have decided in the Slovenian legal order to give Parliament a special role and thus to transpose the directives into the Slovenian legal order, not as in some cases through regulations, which would, of course, allow the Government or Parliament not to accept these matters, but simply the Government accepts them. I think it is the right decision to bring such important things into Parliament, even though this means a number of amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. From the Ministry, the consequences of the services depend, of course, on when they will decide and assess that this law can be rewritten due to a large number of these changes. I don't see some big need now, but I'm not shutting it down and we're not shutting it down in Really so that this can't happen. With regard to climate change, since at least two Directives are linked to this, one could say, above all, that some fundamental consensus has been reached. This consensus is reached that part of the climate change that is taking place must be attributed to human influence and human activity. This consensus is, of course, very comprehensive and, although we can discuss it today, in my opinion it is not necessary, and the fact is that measures must be taken to limit the possible consequences of these climate changes, particularly in terms of the impact on the quality of life. As far as this change is concerned, I could say that I will not repeat these directives, in particular the two directives relate to emissions trading. What's the deal? Europe has been here, we could say, the carrier of this project, and so on, the only area that has such a system, based on experience, we can say that the current emissions trading system has a whole range of problems. Some sectors are not included, some activities are not included, limits have been set too high, the proportion of these free coupons has been very large or even original coupons have been awarded free of charge, competition, hot air has been taken into account, it has been said, too much on the market and so on. Nevertheless, it is estimated that emissions trading has also contributed to emission reductions in these imperfect situations. According to studies cited by London's The Economist in the previous issue, if there were no trading scheme so far in Europe, these emissions would be 20% higher. Although this officer himself advocates a comprehensive system and a transparent system of simple taxation of CO2 emissions, let us put this aside. In any case, these two Directives introduce improvements in this emissions trading and will make a positive contribution to greater efficiency. With regard to the implementation deadlines, it should be said that the Copenhagen environmental conference, of course, brings this uncertainty that you have been talking about, but not uncertainty about Europe. Even though nothing will happen in Copenhagen, it is clear to Europe that it has decided to reduce 20% by 2010. And this trading system is about that. From this point of view, it is time for us to adopt this legislation now, sufficiently early, so that Slovenian legislation, the administration and, above all, the actors who will have to account for emissions, will be prepared for the situation. In slavery and in full we support these changes. I would also like to stress in particular that we support the transfer of the powers of the Environmental Protection Council to the National Assembly. Already, the Council for the Protection of the Environment has worked largely and very well with the National Assembly, the Globe Group, and this cooperation will further strengthen. At the same time, from the Environmental Protection Council, which has become a valuable institution in these years, we will have more than ever. Thank you very much. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are again faced with a similar matter as it was at the previous point when we were discussing the Construction Law. We are once again adopting the amendment of the legislation necessary to transpose the requirements of the EU directives. Some deadlines are very close to this amendment, as some changes are already due at the end of this month and some are due next year. In our parliamentary group, we will support changes to the law, and this law certainly requires concrete reforms, as it regulates a very important area of environmental protection. However, concrete renovations as soon as possible, including in the light of the Copenhagen climate conference, and also due to the serious problems of greenhouse gas emissions waste in the air and, last but not least, the placement of such and other industrial facilities, which may be disputed in one way or another, into different environments in Slovenia, where only those do not belong for different reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian Democratic Party is based on waste management issues, as we know that out of 15 waste management centres in Slovenia, one and two are built, everything else is somewhere in procedures or spatial planning or investment documentation, as municipalities cannot agree on specific centres. However, we know that the country of Slovenia owes it to Europe to do all of this until certain deadlines. For this reason, we are of the opinion of the parliamentary group that public economic services such as municipal waste management would be placed in public services in compulsory public environmental services. In fact, as long as this problem continues to stand, the congregations will suffer great harm and the country will do nothing in this area. In this case, investments or investments in these waste management centres by municipalities and by the State should be divided. Coordination would also be much better, although the Ministry of Environment and Space has recently said that the Government should reduce the number of these waste management centres from 15 to 10, but the municipalities do not know which 10 will be and who will determine which municipalities belong to which waste management centres. I think that, with such a dictatorship that this goes to the public service, to the public service, it would be better resolved and then also further in the waste management programme that the Government had in the normative programme for this year, we should also arrange this. However, this programme is not yet available. I hope that, based on the placement of this service in the state, this will be easier to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I see no one wants to discuss 64 anymore, please? [[...]] Mr. Mag. Cous, I'll give you my word as an ambassador. Here you go, Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. With regard to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u149	Another time a little earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u150	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry I'm late, but I had to consult earlier. With regard to the amendment to Article 64, I would just like to say that we voted on the identical amendment on the committee that I have also tabled such an amendment, but I must say that only the amendment to Article 64 and the amendment to Article 80a do not solve the problem. I must say that it will then come; it is likely that the Legislative and Legal Service should find that there has been a conflict in the law, because the amendment to Article 64, tabled by colleagues from the SDS, confers upon them the power to process and dispose of the remainder of waste from the municipal to the state level, but in Article 65, they have not deleted these powers from the local community. And then what happens if they don't?! Unfortunately, it is too late for us to do so, then the power to process and dispose of the remainder of waste at two levels - both state and municipal. Then who's gonna do it?Oh, my God! The law prescribes the task of both levels, and now it is likely that the country and the congregation will be fighting out of all joy, not who will work, but who will not work. There is a very interesting dilemma then, for no one wants to do so, not the state or the congregation. And for that, I think they're really sorry, fellas. I hope that when you were on the board that you noticed that I had tabled three amendments because you just had to invest the amendments in a way that made sense. Unfortunately, these two amendments make no sense, and because of that, I'm sorry, I would vote for all three amendments if they were properly tabled. But this time probably, I don't know why, in order to essentially disable reception in advance, put it wrong, and when it comes to voting, of course I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u151	Mr. Mag. Kus, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Of course, the proposed amendment has a major impact on the system. This, of course, changes completely, would change and transform into a system of municipal economic services. Disposal and treatment of municipal waste debris would become a state economic service overnight. This means, of course, a great systemic step, and the Government, of course, rejects such an amendment. He's turning down for more than one reason. The first reason is, I've already told him, is because from behind there is a whole system, which should, of course, be reconsidered first if we are to move into such a systemic step. Secondly, since the only Member State in the European Union and the wider one would have it, such a system would be. This, of course, is not the wisest argument, but perhaps we would be on the right track if we had this system at national level, while all other Member States have it at municipal and regional level. But this needs first to be considered, first we need to make appropriate analyses, studies, and then, of course, we need to keep talking. And as has already been said in the Committee on the Environment and Space of the National Assembly, of course we would take time to take such changes, systemic, major changes seriously, and the next time we prepare a systematic amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, it will be clear whether it is only because of this system that it is a municipal public service, waste disposal and management now in great delay, or whether it would be significantly different if it were at national level, or whether it would already have all the regional centres. This is, of course, a big question and it is difficult to give an answer firsthand. In short, such an amendment in its current form is rejected by the Government due to excessive systemic change.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. However, despite the Government's rejection of this amendment, it should be noted that the problem of the system for managing the disposal of waste from treated municipal waste is very open this very moment in Slovenia. I think that at least very clearly it should be noted that it is necessary to decide as soon as possible at the level of the Government or, above all, at the level of the Government, whether the current operational programme for the development of regional deposits remains in force or not. In fact, it happens that some dumps are already closed during this period, others are waiting for us to get the status of the regional dump, and in fact we are all in an extremely precarious situation right now. Therefore, I think it is imperative that the Ministry, in particular, should as little as possible change the criteria so far as possible, but if so, should they be found where the issues are not set or cannot be met, the state must then find a solution. However, in those areas where regional deposits are identified and where, last but not least, the municipality which has the capacity to carry out this deposit and is willing to carry out it, in my opinion, it is also necessary for the Ministry to do its utmost to complete these procedures as soon as possible. If this does not happen, there will be extremely big problems that we are already facing, when we do not really know exactly what to plan, how to plan and when to solve this problem. Perhaps this also led the proposer to decide on this amendment, because there is simply bad coordination between the Ministry and also between the individual municipalities that want to set up a regional centre for the disposal of the remainder of municipal waste. In short, I expect the Ministry to make a very serious review of the procedures so far, particularly where there is a very clear interest and where it is possible to carry out spatially the disposal of the remaining municipal waste, this is also supported. Of course, I will not support this amendment, but I think it is very fitting for the Ministry to point out once again that it is an important player in this and if the rules of the game change, it is impossible to solve such difficult projects as regional projects to dispose of municipal waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thanks again. I apologize, Mr Vice-President, to extend the debate, but I think there is still something else to be said on this issue. I have to say again that I am sorry in my own way, because if the amendments were properly tabled, because I think they are fulfilling what the state should have done a long time ago, not just now, in this mandate. For at least three years now, we know that municipalities cannot deal with each other, it is said, for two years of the previous mandate that most municipalities cannot deal with each other and deal with the construction of waste management centres and landfills of final waste. But it's not just essential. It's something else. In view of the fact that we already had in the last term a proposal for a law on landscapes, which we want or do not want, is actually one of the most logical consequences of waste regions. We need to know that one of the strongest links between the inhabitants of each province is, in fact, how, where and to what extent they will jointly deal with waste until final recovery and disposal. Now we have specific cases where a solution has been prepared at the Ministry, which has neither tail nor head. When it comes to six and eight provinces, but if it is 14 more difficult, we can talk about how logical it is to drive and process waste in Trebnje from Logatz and Kočev. Trebnje is located in Dolenjska krajina, Kočevje in central Slovenia. If there were 14 provinces, Kočevje would be in its province and Logatec in the province of Notranj. So, it's totally spread out to all the ends and places, because then we're going to have to put the landscapes together again in order to deal with waste in a uniform way. And that's why it's the duty of this government, if the former government hasn't done its job, as God commands to solve this Gordy knot, not by cutting it, but by breaking it down. Because by cutting the knots, Alexander the Great didn't come too far. He came physically far, only for a very short time. We know that. I think that this knot will have to be understood by the promise we have received from the Committee on Environment and Space, which we have also confirmed by the decision we have adopted, namely that in February we will receive from the Government the results of the analysis it is doing with regard to the resolution of the waste management problem and the proposal for a definitive solution to this problem. We know that we have been for six months over time, five months, that we are honest, over a time when we should have all the waste management centres in Slovenia practically finished. And we have, as far as I can tell, the real one. And on it all hang, all alive and dead walking and lying in this Slovenia, everyone wants to go to Celje. And thank God Celyan and their surroundings don't fit in at all. And I think any normal person would say, listen, even the final landfill, the waste disposal site has its limits. Thus, the whole of Slovenia cannot now enter the Savinja area. Not to mention that, of course, they can cheerfully drive prices up to the sky, which the Government must also arrange. This must also be regulated by the Government, waste management must, however, because this is proportionate, I speak the provincial treatment of waste, the state level of waste management, must be a uniform price. If we couldn't handle it in the sewers, if we couldn't arrange it in the plumbing, then for God's sake, at least in the waste. One cannot serve at the expense of the fact that another has had, not to say, anything other than congregation leaders who were incapable of negotiating. It is our fault that the mayors and the heads of the municipalities cannot agree on each other. And now, let's say, in one municipality, for almost 100% higher costs of waste management, due to the fact that the mayors of the South Sea Region were not able to agree, because they had one who was always running away between syringes. Is that a solution? I think that in such a case, the government has to act with authority, take over its own, I'll say, it's not subsidiary, but I don't know what diar role and order it to be handled. We can't go on like this anymore. And that's why I'm waiting for February with great interest, and with great pleasure, I'm going to confirm everything that will be The government has proposed a final solution to these problems. I am sure that you are able to do this in the Government and I am sure that we will have these problems completely resolved in 2010.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u157	Mr. Miran Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Much has already been said by Breda Pecan, so that my discussion will be a little shorter. First of all, I would be happy to support the amendment of Article 64 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but I will not. I'll tell you why not. It does not seem serious to me because this amendment somehow places the obligation on the public economic service as regards the treatment and disposal of waste from the local level to the state level. I think that the problem of waste management is our common problem in this country, both local communities, future regions, regions and, of course, countries. What I was glad about was that we had a very good meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space a few months ago, and we also addressed waste management issues and also adopted very good conclusions, in my opinion. Of course, it is in the government, but it is in the Ministry that it also realizes these conclusions as soon as possible. As soon as possible. I expect the Government to really change or supplement the operational waste management programme in which it will be placed, I do not know, 8, 10, 14 centres, and that we will of course know from the operational programme how we will deal with this problem in Slovenia. What is most important to me is that we will be able to convince the European institutions through this operational programme that we are serious, and that we will not continue to pay large fines, cash, as of 15 July. That's what I'm afraid of. And I hope that we will draw up a really good programme and that these penalties will not come to pass and that this money that we should give to pay for these penalties will rather be devoted to solving this problem. I agree with most, I'll say, discussers. I do not say that everything in the previous government has been bad in this area, but something is true that there has been a lot of confusion in these four years, but not only at the expense of the bad part of the government or the ministry, but in some ways also bad work within individual local communities that have hindered the establishment of a good waste management system. For these reasons, I will not support this amendment. Of course, I expect the Government to implement and report to the Assembly and the Committee on the Environment and Space as soon as possible on how to address these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I see. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Our attempt may have been to warn, if not the other, because we know, as Mrs Pecanov, the chairman of the committee, that she would support, if it were better prepared, if the purpose of the government and the position in order to settle this, could be prepared for today's session - probably. But the amendments will not be confirmed, they will remain as they are. Let this be a warning that there is something very wrong in this area that you, too, have confirmed. That the operational waste management programme is late, that we are in a certain path where there is great damage, some projects are also in the spatial planning phase, not only in the next stages such as the investment programme, but also in the idea that I am not speaking to the building permit. However, it is necessary, I mean, to remind you of some things, because I think some activities have already been done during the time of Minister Kopač. We know that every municipality of up to 3,000 or over 3,000 people must have collection centres. Some of them were built, most of them not to go to these collection recyclable centres, including bituminous waste, hazardous waste, part of building waste, and then, as I recall, an experiment was made where these construction or these various wastes from the collection and recycling centres were made. How can a municipality of 3,000 people get customers from one collection of recycling centers by itself? That's impossible. Some kind of system was needed. For two million inhabitants, either one collector or a glass client or a customer of some hazardous waste, such as an old furniture system, old clothes. This work was done in the congregations, but at one point this remained. It was heard that there was a glass problem because there was no glass client, everyone would take only colourless glass, not colored glass. The situation is stuck at this level, which is the separation of waste, before being dumped in the municipalities at the collection of recycling centres. I hope that this will also be determined in this programme, or that the State or the Ministry will help to get some customers through this programme, to complete the process of separation from its origin, to the disposal of the residues of these wastes or the handling of these residues of incineration or whatever. The provinces, if set up, as the President said, could be a good example because the provinces would regulate such a larger complex, including a waste management centre in a specific area, and the country would then have to regulate only this last phase, such as incinerators, and probably not each province would have its own. But now we're in a situation where we don't have the things that are saved from the origin of the waste ahead. And we're congregations in some kind of pat position. It is difficult to expect that municipalities in Slovenia will agree on which ones will go anywhere, because many of these landfills of the lower level have been open, even co-financed by the country, but now do not belong to this programme or will have to be excluded in some way. It's hard for those congregations now. However, it will not be financed by European means to regulate these smaller landfills. So far, it has been said that the construction of larger centres will be co-financed. What about those congregations that have landfills that need to be repaired, arranged, and so on? This was an attempt, a warning that the state would be more involved in the resolution of these wastes, that perhaps, when we do not have the provinces, we have lost a certain time in which possible greater steps could be taken to address this problem. I would appeal to the Ministry of the Environment, because it is also, I think, a decision of the Committee has already been made to cut across the state of all these projects that are being prepared: where, what their feasibility is, how much resources are needed to build all these buildings. On this occasion, it might not be necessary to take a closer look at the complex cycle from the origin of the waste itself to that final landfill, because there is a wide variety of municipalities, both the way it is collected and the way it is charged, somewhere in cubicles, somewhere in tons. Cubic collection, tons of deposition. There's a lot of things in here that can be wrong with charging and so on. I'm sorry this didn't work out. If this were to go to the country, the state would have a much greater responsibility. I understand, however, that I don't know which state-level service would handle this, probably at the ILO. In a short time, however, it would probably be difficult for us to organize ourselves in order for this to be done. We totally understand that. Once again, we appeal to take this problem seriously, because that way we transport garbage up and down Slovenia, from Kopra to Novo mesto, from Maribor to Novo Mesto, that we really have citizens or residents laughing at us. They laugh at us for the first time when we collect separately, and we drive a lot of people with one truck to the dump site. But that's what happens when garbage falls from trucks to motorways when they transport from one end of Slovenia to the other, I don't think we're proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u161	I can see more hands, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Tom Mencinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't want to get involved in this discussion, but I would actually join those who point out the big problem. This problem is indeed an all-Slovenian problem and the Gammas need to be tackled by preparing a new operational programme, which will record whether it is now eight, whether it is ten regional centres. And then let's add the rest of the story to these stories. The next thing that's most problematic is that even though we've been talking and negotiating for a number of years, we don't agree on anything, but there will be no more European funding in 2013. What will Slovenia do after this date if there is no European money for this purpose?Oh, my God! This is an impossible mission. We'll drive the trash out of Slovenia. Therefore, in fact, the operational programme needs to be amended very quickly, the centres are set up and then this story is added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must say, I agree with the predecessors on this subject. As far as the amendment to Article 64 is concerned, it is certainly well thought out, it would be ideal, but it is also the knowledge of my predecessors who have drafted an amendment that we do not have a job and an infrastructure in the country to take over and complete this matter. In a way, we are going between the municipalities and the state of ping-pong, but I must say that the ministry must also play a more defined and decisive role. Many times in practice, the ministry says and also writes, if you do, the mayors take note, while quietly setting conditions for us from behind and trying to suggest what solutions should be. Goreńska is certainly one of such cases. We've done some stupid things already, and I hope that now we're going to fix it by merging it into a unified concept. What do I think is essential about this story? The awareness of each of us that the problem of waste management begins at our home in the kitchen, bathroom, garage and elsewhere. If we set up a single system for the country to separate it there, then all these problems will be reduced. There are 2 million of us, that's as much as a city abroad that has this arranged with one single center. And I also think that if the numbers of these centres in Slovenia are greater than 10, then we are not on the right track. A waste treatment plant, a waste treatment plant, can be installed with today's technology, without adverse environmental impacts in any normally regulated and equipped utility zone. But we need to make use of what we already have. In Slovenia, there are a bunch of landfills, the storage space is valuable today, and with the years when we can only put 15.20% of what is now there, it will be even more valuable. That is why I call on the Ministry to use those sites where the environment is already polluted to the end and then to rehabilitate and close. It would be wrong if, in Slovenia, the moment when the landfill is large, if we were to close literally in a semi-empty landfill, because those too will have to be repaired. In practice, this probably doesn't happen. It also seems important to me to say that in Slovenia we should also regulate the waste packaging collection system in a uniform manner. In average waste packagings are between 50% and 60% and systems are different, some municipalities have yellow containers, some yellow bags, this is a technicality, which is not essential, it is essential that all packaging be collected separately and, above all, the system should be further developed. The system we have in Slovenia, SLOPAK, is disabled. It was established as shareholders of a company that has many problems and problems with packaging and also in the framework of SLOPAK, exercising their capital and profitable interests. It is not and cannot be the goal of saying that we have set up a company to collect 25% of the waste packaging. Our goal must be to fight for 100%. And if we're going to set up a yellow bag system or a yellow bowl, then we need to find someone who will find all the separate factions that are going to be collected regardless of the amount, take over and unify. We have a lot of work ahead of us in this area, and obviously we will be able to decide soon as possible how it is in Slovenia with the thermal treatment of waste, and there, if we talk about more than two, maybe three centres that we could combine with many industrial plants, if we talk about more, then we shoot ourselves in the knee and cause ourselves damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u165	Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. I am aware that the magic wand is not, probably not the only one, and in this room we are all somehow at the same wavelength and that there is no solution, not at all simple. In this area, solutions are all very complicated, very complicated, but that doesn't mean they're not there. And that does not mean that we will not get to these solutions, but it is necessary to find the energy and find the optimal solutions that will satisfy the actual whole, the country, the government, the National Assembly, but, finally, the most important, the municipalities or the local community, and as a result, the population. Residents are the ones who suffer from unresolved matters daily and the agreement is the most important. I think we need to find a way to solve this in one way or another. I think we'll find it because there are a lot of good examples in practice. I have just come from one area, in the vicinity of Copenhagen, Malta, another country, Sweden and Denmark, and regions and countries have only been able to agree on all these issues and, finally, the local communities, believe that because of the complexity of their laws, it was not easy. But if it is will and if it is awareness that the goal is shared and that the goal is actually quality of life, that the objective is one unpolluted environment, there must also be a possibility of a solution. Little is an example of a city that had been severely devastated by an industrially polluted city less than 20 years ago. Today it is one of the first, or it has won the prize as a green city of the world and Europe, and it can be a pattern. When a man gets there, he thinks it's a science fiction. So the solutions are, we just have to find them and I hope, and I believe that there must be so much optimism in us. For us, for everyday life and not just for future generations, because we always talk about future generations. We live this everyday life, we live, we breathe this polluted air, and I think that because of this, we have one way to shrink our strength and find the optimal option for this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u167	Anyone else want a word? I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment. I won't support him for two reasons. One's more political, the other might be more professional. It is, of course, political that when we listen to debates on the establishment of new congregations, all those who are against the new smaller municipalities are accused of advocating the centralisation of the country, the greater function, the greater role of the state when they oppose the municipalities. Now that we have such congregations, however, it turns out that a whole range of municipalities are not capable of carrying out certain basic activities, which, in essence, represent local affairs, local public services and try to transfer them to the country. Thus, even the processing and disposal of municipal waste remains would be carried to the country. I don't think that's acceptable. And it's just the opposite of what it looks like at first sight. The fragmentation of municipalities actually centralizes, increases the role of the state and makes it unacceptable centralistic. On the professional side, however, I think that there are many things that are quite clear, unequivocal, and in fact there is no longer much arguing about them, but decisions need to be made. It is clear what the Directives on the safe disposal and treatment of waste require. It is crystal clear what conditions are required from the location, from the devices and objects that are there and which components should be deposited, processed and integrated in one way or another. The question that relates to the decision is where it should be and how it should be organised rationally. I must honestly say that I am sorry when I look at the situation in this area, which is what I left as Minister of Environment and Space ten years ago. Ten years ago, we were closer to the location of the waste management centre in Gorenjska, Notranjska and so on and elsewhere. And I don't know what this story is. Here, however, the Ministry must play a stronger, more decisive role as catalyst and instigator of municipalities in order to identify themselves as rationally organised waste management centres that meet all the conditions. Why doesn't that happen? Yes, because people are still, and will not be for long, willing to pay irrationally high costs, not solutions, solutions that are not. Some municipalities had to drive these wastes to some completely different locations, to other parts of Slovenia, they had to raise the price for waste management by 20, 30 or even 100 percent, and of course people would "eat it again". When they don't eat, we'll either deal with these things quickly. I would really like to call not only the congregation that has its own interests, but, above all, one very strong, very firm, very determined policy of the ministry that has to say, here we think that, after thorough consultations, it must say this. And it has to help make that happen. As far as the coordinating role is concerned. If you take your own treatment, waste treatment, and storage, then tell me why we should still have congregations. Or just for sidewalks and street lights? Let us be aware that local self-government is growing from regulating common interests and needs, and we need to adapt our actions to that. So from this point of view, both professional and political, I cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u169	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unlike the predecessor, I will not claim that the congregations are called solely to handle waste and street lamps in a responsible manner. The solution to systemic waste management must be found at the country level. If that doesn't happen, then we can look at what's going on in Naples, and you'll see what kind of city this is. This is a place of garbage, pestilence, and a future plague of another disease that will come from there. What should we do? At the time of the recession, this can be an opportunity for development. The country can act very irresponsiblely in this area because it does not want to accept this challenge. We can see what can happen if the country is doing the right thing if we just go to Vienna. In the center of the city is a garbage incinerator, which heats up the water and is a heating system for the whole of Vienna. And it's in the middle of town. You know, waste is money, too. This isn't just a separate collection of waste, but now we've done everything. Not far. If we look only at Croats, they pay half a kuna for the returned packaging, both for the tetrapack and for the bottle, whether small or large, from the water. And if we accepted this, say, at the level of the country as a comprehensive measure, these difficulties would be much less and we would probably also have the opportunity to recycle material, at least on this segment without a problem of immediate and 100% separate collection of waste. Of course, the central waste dumps are desirable in a region, but where this will be and how this will grow, of course also with the help of European funds, the state, the state-owned location plans, as well as the UNO, must be made in coordination with the environment minister. This is not the case; the congregations are on their own. For Primorska, we've been struggling with where we're going to dump the trash for several years. A few efforts were also made by the former mayor of Izole, Mrs Breda Pečan, as well as by the mayor of the town, we were looking for locations. Now the mayor is trying to find the right location, and it's probably not going to happen. It'll stay the way it is, it won't live. Where it leads to an non-systemic waste management solution, you can see if you actually look at these pilot projects, as we like to call them, when we watch these ecological islands grow, as they say, with containers where separate waste is to be collected. And yet far from that, it's not happening. Even what you've come up with now, some punishments will be severe punishments for those who don't. I think it would be right to separate matters into recycled materials and organic waste and to take a systematic approach to this by either producing or simply incinerating, as is known in Europe, energy that is usable, either in terms of organic fertilisers, or by simply burning, and returning as energy to space, either as hot water or as energy in another form. And if we don't do it at the state level, we can just say it in this room and talk about how other countries have this nicely arranged, but it won't do any good. I would like to appeal to an environmental minister, whom I do not see here today, but also to the Minister of the Economy, to open their purse, to make one call and give a challenge, a chance and an opportunity to young people who will approach this problem pleasantly and probably find a solution. With this, we will hire some people, acquire European funds, and also spend a kilowatt hour less on heating in the future in terms of perspective. If we don't do this, it's a waste of words and a waste of action, because that's all at the level of the inn debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u171	Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Yeah, you'll get it. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Unlike one of my predecessors, who has put the problem of solving municipal waste in good or poor municipal or state level, I do not understand it. I understand this amendment that we tabled as a solution to the problem that is here and is now up to date. I would not say that some congregations that are in favor of this, since of course waste management is also the responsibility of local self - government, did not resolve it. If we look only at the case of the Grosuplje municipality, which is an area of the former general congregation, according to the present municipality of Dobrepolje, Ivančna Gorica and Grosuplje, 10 years ago managed the municipal landfill, of course in line with the standards then in force, and solved the long-term problem of waste disposal. But as has been said many times since the 1999 Waste Disposal Directive entered into force and we have transposed it into our legal order, we have also introduced a regulation into our legal order. Not the congregation, the state. By regulation, the Government has prescribed and prescribed regional landfills. She has now told the local levels, and now, please, 15 regional landfills have been defined, and now the local communities, the mayors, change and start solving the problem as we have set out. And this problem has emerged from the previous term of office and we are now in this mandate, when I also think of the good initiative of the Committee on Environment and Space, here in the National Assembly we have found at least one transitional solution, until the regional landfills are established to allow a temporary postponement. It's not a good solution, but it's a solution that our garbage really doesn't stay in our backyards. If we look at just one case that I know of, this is the problem of these inner congregations, when we should somehow approach the landfill in Trebnje, where the question immediately arose, why we should drive so far as one of those simple questions. On the other hand, the mayor of Trebnje and then the municipality of Grosuplje were to do so in a joint centre, of course they began to expose their legitimate interests there. And with all good will, it obviously didn't come to an agreement, not at the expected time, when the ministry thought it would happen. It didn't come. Even more. The Logatec municipality then took an initiative and said, and we would build a waste management centre for six municipalities, beyond what is in the region, which is meant by the regulation to solve a problem and start with a public, private partnership. And even on the basis of the answers to my parliamentary questions, it is clear that, in fact, such a solution that the congregation wishes well will not receive European funds. It will not receive European funds because it is still written in a different regulation. And even more. On the last Committee on Environment and Space it was heard, I heard that it was no longer 15 cents, but less. While the Calvary continues to talk and negotiate at local levels, the Government is considering reducing the number of regional waste disposal centres. What happens now? Personally, if this situation is being resolved in this way with regard to the number of regional landfills, then it is only right that the whole matter is transferred to the state level, since from this level there are also a number of regional landfills. I don't know how to prescribe, say, everything's fine, but we have 15 landfills available. And there's a lot of effort, negotiation at local levels, at meetings of municipal councils, controversy that happens in public, and then we come up with an answer, and we're going to reduce the number of regional landfills. But it's all moving back to the local level. By doing so, the local level with some of its initiatives, which are not even harmonised, is starting to work, as I have already mentioned, because they are bound by the law on local self-government, but there is no solution. We therefore believe that it is right to accept such an amendment in order to actually resolve matters by the level that prescribes it. I didn't hear the right argument, except for fear, if it went from a higher level, that there would probably be purely operational problems here. That the Ministry, which would then be in charge of organising the State Waste Disposal Service, is unlikely to be able to carry out such an economic service in a purely operational manner, I see no other way. I also speak on the basis of experience with at least two strands, the landfill of Grosuplje and Globoko in Trebnje, where it is supposed to belong, say, a whole bunch of inner municipalities and where the mayors on their own side in some way also represented legitimate interests. And everyone said the Ministry wasn't responding here. And then everything stays the way it is. In the meantime, the change that we will have fewer regional landfills, which means that perhaps all those hours that the mayors, the municipal councils, have set aside to come to a solution can mean something else in the end. That is why I think that this amendment is good, that then the level that it has proposed or in some way also requires so many and so many regional landfills, will also establish this and will have certain obligations and responsibilities that will be carried out at local level. If there is only one level required for the mayors to pull it off, then there is no leverage back here, I think we will continue to spin the story of the number of regional landfills for a long time, so that we do not doubt the intentions of trying to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u173	Mrs. Pechanova, the replica. You're giving up. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u174	I think that this debate, in spite of the rich debate, shows that we have a serious problem in this area. I would have understood the amendment as well-intentioned, even though it is clear that we cannot support it in a given situation, even because, in the event of conceptual differences, it is still a proposal that puts a single move on the head of the current system in this area. And I think that's supposed to be smart. However, I am personally open to discussing this further and seeing whether it is possible to think through more centralised and at least for me more rational management of waste management across Slovenia faster and cheaper to achieve common goals. It seems to me that we have a number of problems in this country that, once we set the right targets, we are very ineffective on the way to achieving these goals. And in this context, I see this amendment as the plight of many local environments, which must do something, and they are not capable of doing so. I have to say that, for 20 years now, I have also been following in the Municipality of Maribor, where apparently local communities do not have the capacity to cope with the various syndromes, a typical example is this: 'not at all in my yard', that we will not solve this problem with such a narrow approach. It does not have to be saved for Europe, but because today we are dumping waste, which is a valuable and potential energy source, so to speak, through the window, we are dumping it into nature without taking advantage of what this waste has its energy potential, which is also worth taking advantage of because of climate change. As it is said, I support further discussion and, above all, I call on the Ministry to pay attention to this issue, how to better organise waste management across Slovenia. But I cannot support this amendment because I regard it as dangerous and unthinkable.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss the amendment to Article 64? I'm opening the application. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this article. However, I would like to show some sympathy for this kind of thinking, especially because I believe that the state cannot simply avoid all the problems we have on the ground, which are very specific. With us in Idria, it's mercury. You find mercury everywhere, still. For in this mine still 10% of all the world's stocks of mercury in the world, or in the form of ore ore, or as a native. When we take all the effluents to our cleaners, we have mercury in the mud of this cleaning plant. We can't take this mud anywhere, because there's no regulation to regulate it in our country. We can't get him to a local dump, two of us have already closed up, now we have to drive them to Logatec, then we hear that even in Logatec we won't be able to get to a third or fourth location, because it's really a very messy area. The country will have to take a little more care of this area, as well as of these specific wastes, which are essentially part of municipal waste, because if it goes to a cleaning plant, if then, say, buried for some construction, we get building waste that is also contaminated with mercury. When we repaired the kindergarten, not with Slovenian money, but with the money of the Norwegian financial mechanism, we had a problem where this material was contaminated with mercury. Thus, in my view, the country should tackle these problems more actively and take care of certain types of waste. In particular, I'm talking about waste contaminated with mercury. The European Union Strategy for Mercury adopted in 2005 also imposes a number of tasks on all members of the European Commission, including Slovenia, because after 2010, we should no longer use mercury in thermometers. We will only be able to use mercury as a museum exhibit or for special research purposes. There's one open area that the country even leaves behind. As the closing works in the Idrija mine end now, the Ministry of Economy simply wants to liquidate this company without saying what to do with it, including these wastes. The State has set up an information research centre which cannot live because it does not have the necessary support, except for "ad hoc" support from the Ministry of the Environment and the space only temporarily financed, while the Ministry of Economy has initiated a process of liquidation that will only push this problem under the carpet will not be the solution that would be necessary. Now, Mr Vice President, I've really gotten a little out of the ordinary, so I apologize. However, I think that the country should take care of these problems in these special wastes, as the European Union strategy for mercury also dictates. And let me take this opportunity to say that this conclusion of the liquidation of the mercury mine, which is now in the government procedure, and I hope that you will get it too, because at first you were not even asked to respond adequately to this decision, because I think this is, for the first time, the first time in public, Dr. Matej Lahovnik has made a political decision on the liquidation of the mercury mine, not the professional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u177	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you very much again for your word. As my colleague has already said, this law basically has more amendments than the basic articles. It shows how we have dealt with this problem. In doing so, I would like to say that this poor practice of the National Assembly has been repeated over and over again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I miss the competent minister, second of all, which would be right if we already saw that some things can be done properly, so that we can do them properly. But the practice in the National Assembly is such that we do very badly in the basic product. If we want to be European comparable, then if we are to be able to implement every directive of the European Union immediately into our legislation, we need to take a little look across the border. At least next door. Or the Balkans, Croats, or more European people, Austrians. There you can get good practice. I don't know why so many words about how we're going to make the matter worse, but if we have comparable solutions that are good, validated by good practice, as already said, even profitable, because garbage, we in Primorsk call squaws, waste, they pay pretty well and they're a lucrative business. I don't know why we should keep our eyes closed in on the solutions they call themselves. Even Europe devotes abnormal amounts of money to these projects. Therefore, once again the call and appeal to the Government: until there is a comprehensive approach, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has indicated where the central processing stations or incineration plants or organic waste plants will be, or in fact, the sorting room, however you wish, will not be called for a comprehensive approach to solving this problem until then. And as has already been said, at least three Ljubljanans or three Maribors could be heated with waste collected only here in Ljubljana. These are known studies that essentially transfer commercial eligibility. Why don't the state lend money for such establishments? Why not support an undisputed ecological recovery that can give something back? And why can't we print on these bottles tomorrow what the Croats can do to pay for every bottle returned with half a kuna or 50 lips, they come back. Why can't we do that? Why can't the country sign an open competition for a good project? Every year, he completes so many and so many engineers, masters, doctors, his studies. This hall was also equipped with young people. On the call came a group, I think three girls, an architect, this challenge and today we have a modern European National Assembly Hall. Something else could have grown in this way. But no! Because, of course, everyone wants to hunt in mud and because utilities serve well, because it is a monopoly that no one can think of changing it differently than it is agreed in local circles, it is. In Italy this is regulated by the mafia, so they have the places they have because they want to usurp the problem. I'd like to move this from a dead spot. Whatever we are going to accept has already been said in the opening statement by Mrs Breda Pecan when she said that the amendments were irrelevant. I would like to move the debate in this direction to give the minister the task of accepting the challenge and approaches to it as he should, of course, in a reasonable way and in a European comparable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u179	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologize for causing the riot. I got a phone call saying there's a wind blowing in the Vipavska Valley, a storm, 20 miles an hour. And what's the problem now - because Dars put the trucks on the fast road and shut it down. If such a storm were blowing in Koroška, in Prekmursk, people would be hunting for roofs and they're mad at us because the road is closed. Thank God it is, because otherwise there could be traffic accidents. But what I'm trying to say is how we are. I hope that, not because of this in Bevkov Square in Nova Gorica, the spring party will hold a rally against the government and the ministry, but against the storm. Yes, that's what you're predicting, sir, please. Of course I'm going to go against this amendment, for one reason. The state can't specifically worry about every waste collection centre, I can't imagine. However, I agree with everything else, and the organisation and arrangements that should now take place more intensively do not run, which is the problem of the Government. Since you all mentioned your problems, in Goriška we have agreed that this waste collection centre in the municipality of Nova Gorica. We agreed on a lot of things, 13 mayors among ourselves. The problem is now that everyone wants to operate with this center. We're against it. The center will be in the city congregation, with which we want to carry out ourselves, of course, according to regulations that are very clear. And if we're going to have 13 mayors running this center, then I don't know how we're going to run investments and all the other events connected to this center. That's the only problem I want to talk about. Now, just for the fun of it. My colleague from Mirna Peci, the mayor, if you already have that name, it was said here, we could have a lighter, and we could solve the matter if you already have a furnace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment and this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the 78th article of the amendment to this article. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 78 and the amendment of the coalition groups to this Article. There's no sign-in. It is said that there is no debate and I conclude it. I'm opening a debate for a new 80.A. It is proposed by the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I take it that we have concluded the debate on the amendments tabled. However, we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at least five minutes before one night, but I think it will be sooner. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on spatial planning. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. The Spatial Planning Act was last amended, I am in fact changing and adopted in 2007. At that time, the law set out an ambition for municipalities to adopt municipal spatial plans in two years by 11 November 2009. Currently in preparation and in the process of preparing more than one hundred and fifty municipal spatial plans, only a few municipal spatial plans have been adopted by the end. The preparation of municipal spatial plans is late. What's the reason? The reason is probably not only that the congregations were unable to prepare and adopt municipal spatial plans at that time, but it was obviously also in a somewhat inadequate form of legislation. The spatial plan law obviously had written down provisions, for the first time, very ambitiously, that it was possible to adopt municipal spatial plans within two years, and for the second time it had some provisions which were probably a little too complex in the proceedings, which did not shorten procedures, which did not speed up or simplify procedures. This was also a fundamental reason for amending and supplementing the Spatial Planning Act: to introduce some provisions that simplify and accelerate and shorten procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial plans. At the same time, the law also laid down a new deadline, a period by which it is extended to allow for the completion of the procedures for the preparation of amendments to municipal spatial constituents from the 1980s legislation. There are also about sixty such changes in the process and the addition of municipal spatial components. If, of course, we were to stick to the deadline until 11 November 2009, we should stop these procedures and not be able to complete them. Some studies have been prepared by the municipalities that are preparing and which have these procedures in the procedure. Therefore, of course, it is reasonable and wise for these congregations to allow these procedures to be completed but, of course, within a limited period of time. These procedures may be completed by the end of the following year, but from 11 November of this year, they cannot introduce new procedures and start new procedures. Only those who are in the process. And these are, in fact, all the fundamental changes and additions to the Spatial Planning Act, with the basic objective and purpose that I have stated. The government proposes to adopt the National Assembly in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you, Secretary of State of Mags. Zoran Kus. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Breda Pecan to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 11th regular meeting on 26 November this year, the Committee on the Environment and Space carried out an examination of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government to the legislative procedure on 29 October. The government has proposed that the proposal for a law be dealt with in a simplified manner. The College confirmed this proposal at its 43rd meeting on 9 November, but on 12 November, the Group of Members and Members requested that the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly be taken by the National Assembly. At its 11th regular meeting on 17 November, the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Thus, at the Committee's meeting, we considered amendments and amendments to the draft law. The law deals with the elimination of problems which, due to certain inadequate provisions of the applicable law, in practice occur in procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial plans. The proposal for a law in addition is based on a different approach, which is softer than before, and is also based on the principles of trust, cooperation and guidance between the State and the municipalities than two equal authorities in the Republic of Slovenia in the area of spatial regulation, by proposing amendments to the procedure for the preparation of the municipal spatial plan and amending the deadline by which the municipalities have to complete the procedures for preparing changes and supplementing the existing spatial components of municipal planning acts by the beginning of 2011. It also lays down the tasks or role of space regulators, empowers the Ministry of Spatial Planning to keep a list of national regulations of certain spatial regulators, burdens the Ministry of Large-Scale Administrative Work with regard to the acquisition of guidelines and opinions of the spatial regulators, and facilitates municipalities to exercise their developmental interests in coordination procedures with spatial regulators. The Ministry responsible for space shall become the institution of the regulation of the premises for the development of the premises. A major amendment to the bill is the amendment of Article 51a or Article 10 of the amendment and the addition of this law, which in the law in force refers to the approval of the municipal spatial plan by the Ministry or the Government. The procedure since the approval of the municipal spatial plan proposal shall be terminated and replaced by a report on the coordination of the municipal spatial plan in the Government. This proposed amendment, however, is specifically pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, where the municipality can adopt an illegal municipal spatial plan because the Government of Municipal Spatial Plans no longer approves, but is only familiar with the report prepared by the Ministry and sent to the municipality. However, despite the findings of the report that the guidelines of the space regulators have not been followed, the municipality's spatial plan, by decree, may be adopted. However, the illegality of that sub-law can only be established within the framework of a constitutional assessment of that sub-law, taking into account the solutions proposed. The Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supports, but also supports, the extension of the deadline for the completion of the amendment procedures, the addition of the existing spatial components of the planning acts, but also notes that the municipalities, which, instead of preparing the municipal spatial plans, have joined in amending and supplementing the existing spatial components of the municipal planning acts, are in a better position. It also supports a solution that relieves the Ministry of the Environment and the administrative work area and allows municipalities to communicate directly with the space regulators. In the debate, the members of the Committee drew attention to the provisions of Article 5 relating to the preparation of the municipal spatial plan in digital form and its relevance. Many comments were also made regarding the preparation of guidelines for the planning of spatial arrangements by space regulators who are often late in response or even require a whole series of additions to the municipal spatial plan. In individual cases, space regulators were not considered to have expert materials for the preparation of guidelines and, in such cases, were burdened by the municipalities to participate in the preparation of professional bases. When verifying whether a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is necessary, the competent authority shall also exceed the law of the specified time limit. The provisions of Article 9 of the draft law governing the procedure for preparing a proposal for a municipal spatial plan have also been made with a view to making the same observations. Members of the Committee have questioned the organ silence instrument or the body's response [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] the law set a time limit for the response and, in so doing, the lack of the power of the congregation to act. [[...]] In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Environment and Space held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. As individual amendments have been rejected or accepted, the report of the Committee shows. The Committee also adopted two amendments to Articles 5 and 9 of the bill. The amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee shall take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. After the end of the debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u185	Ma'am, Mrs. Pecan. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u186	Yes, thank you very much. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. The reasons and objectives of this law are perfectly clear and we all want them. What about the environmental spatial plans and the problems we are facing, and we are back there, the mayors in the municipalities, well-known. The purpose of this law, in particular in the terms, in the articles where the time limits are precisely set, which is very good, very good, precisely set deadlines, by which time an actor must react in the whole process, by providing a guarantee or by giving it, if not, to be placed in our skin by respected representatives of the Government, and by finding out what is really going on. In fact, these hands were not respected. At least until now. I hope they do from now on. Typical of us is one of the agents of space regulation, this is the agricultural ministry, whose decisions and opinions sometimes wait even after half a year and more. But let's just leave it. In the light of the law, I warn all my colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the fact that the Slovenian National Party will not oppose the law, the serious shortcomings that have occurred in practice, and we have already met this, between the fourth paragraph of Article 51 and the second paragraph of Article 52a. If you'll excuse me, I would point to this flaw and I think it would be right for us to think about it. Actually, that's the story. 51.a. in the fourth paragraph, Article 51a states that, where the holder of the spatial arrangements, the Ministry or the Government does not issue a decision establishing consistency within the time limit laid down, it shall be deemed that the proposal for a municipal plan is harmonised or that the institution does not give an opinion within the required time limit, the municipality may proceed with the preparation of the spatial plan. I'm talking about a specific case that we'll understand, the congregations. At times it was understandable and I think it is even written down that this means that if the holder did not give his opinion at a certain time, he agreed with the guidelines that they were. And what happens? The municipality, according to the present law, does not write this, only the deadline is set, but writes, unless the carrier responds, the preparers can work on the OPN. A spatial plan is made, a beautiful land, an interested investor comes in, will set up a new production activity, municipal spatial plans continue, are prepared, we this land to this potential investor, who will hire new jobs, where he will build a factory and so on, sell. "Wow, you're on," when it goes back to the O.N. under the pretext that everything is okay, because the carriers have not called before, the carrier that hasn't answered will come forward and say, "Wow, something's wrong here" and on the basis of paragraph 2 of Article 52a, it's a nice thing to bring to the Constitutional Court. According to the local word, it's a beautiful weight, the congregation's pull, and the weight of the investor who bought it, but it's the law that makes it possible. Believe me, I've been consulting for two hours, three hours with a worker who works in this area, and this marriage really knows well, at least the previous one, inside, and says there could be a big mistake here. If the carriers do not come forward in time, it means that the UN is working and when it is done, and when something is happening, who will then solve the problems, who will return to the future buyer and so on. In short, here we would really draw attention to this possibility that happens, or in particular the essential solution to all of this, is that the deadlines laid down in this bill are absolutely respected, which is indeed not, and this is a major obstacle to all the procedures ahead, at least until now, not. As it is said, we will not oppose the proposed Spatial Planning Act in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Miran Jerič, who will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u190	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Honourable Fellow Member, fellow Members! Spatial planning as part of space management is a professionally difficult and co-decision-making of the public at large is an open activity. Its scope is exceptional from setting general guidelines at national level to urban planning and the adoption and implementation of spatial implementing acts in municipalities. As such, spatial planning is intertwined between policy, expertise, capital and private interests. The closer we are to a fundamental level through spatial planning, the greater the gap between public and partial interests. For successful spatial planning, effective, unambiguous, simple and inclusive spatial legislation, where strategic and implementation content is clearly demarcated, as well as the competences of individual participants, is essential. Unfortunately, we do not have such spatial legislation in our country, and we are changing it all too often, and instead of simplifying and shortening the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts, all these changes have happened on the contrary. Spatial legislation simply does not tolerate changes every five years. There are countries where it has not changed significantly for decades but is being upgraded. The delicacy of our spatial legislation results in the same spatial development, which also reflects, inter alia, accelerated, dispersed construction on the best agricultural land and, finally, this chaoticity is reflected in a number of proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The proposed amendment to the Law on Spatial Planning in the LDS is assessed as correcting the greatest errors and obvious anomalies of the existing spatial planning system, which is not significantly affected in the core of the system. In particular, we support those changes that are intended to contribute to the smooth and speedy pace of adoption procedures. We would like to draw attention to concrete solutions in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in particular to the amendment of Article 51a and the new Article 51a, which removes the procedure for the approval of the proposal for a municipal spatial plan and replaces it by establishing the consistency of the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. The solution adopted by the amendment of the coalition groups retains, to a large extent, the existing legislation that ensures that the municipal spatial plan is aligned with the country's spatial acts and takes into account the opinions of planners which, on the basis of the sectoral rules, ensure the implementation and protection of national public interests. The Minister shall determine by decision the consistency of the municipal spatial plan with the guidelines of the space regulators. However, if the opinions give rise to a lack of consistency, the decision will be passed on to the Government. This new solution is also linked to the provision of the new Article 52a, which allows the Government to initiate a procedure to assess compliance with the constitution or the law on the municipal spatial plan adopted by the municipality despite the negative decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to comply with the guidelines of the planning managers and the Ministry that the effects of its implementation on the environment are unacceptable. Finally, the amendment of the law also solves the great problem of more than 50 congregations bound by deadline 14. 11. 2009 The law in force no longer allows, after the expiry of this period of amendments and the completion of spatial components of the planning acts, which means that after this period the municipalities could no longer complete the procedures under way. This would cause great damage to local communities because they have invested a lot of work and, of course, financial resources in these processes. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law, but with the knowledge that it is necessary to thoroughly analyse the whole area by regulating the related legislation, and to systematically ensure the rationality and effectiveness of comprehensive regulation of the area at national, future regional and local level. So, with a broad professional and political consensus, prepare a new law with ambition to be valid for at least 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you. Ms Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Secretary General, dear colleagues. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a Spatial Planning Act. The Act on Spatial Planning, which was adopted by 30, is in force. 3. 2007 stipulates that the congregations must expire or have expired within a period of 14 years. 11. Adopt its new basic spatial acts, municipal spatial acts. In practice, however, two years for the adoption of municipal spatial acts has proved to be a pre-ambitious plan set by the previous government. The fact is that most municipalities have not been prepared for this preparation of municipal spatial plans, since many, in particular smaller municipalities, are still unable to provide sufficient financial resources in their budgets, nor are there adequate staff available for the preparation of municipal spatial plans. This is also the reason why this law is adopted in a reduced procedure, because it represents a correction of some errors in the first phase. The amendment of the Spatial Planning Act therefore addresses the problems that arise in these phases and procedures in practice due to some inadequate provisions of the applicable law. The proposed law also adopts a deadline for municipalities to complete the procedure for preparing amendments and supplementing the existing spatial components of municipal planning acts by extending it for more than a year, allowing municipalities to complete the procedures already in place. However, the procedure for approving the municipal spatial plan proposal is repealed and replaced by the adoption of the budget on the harmonisation of the municipal spatial plan in the Government. Most solutions bring simplification and acceleration of procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial plans, which are fundamental, not only spatial documents of municipalities, but also fundamental documents of a sustainable reason, which are also dependent on their economic and sustainable development. This also means some specific purpose and way of carrying out administrative obstacles that are so necessary and in the Group of Members we have always been in favour of such an approach as to remove administrative obstacles. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have devoted a lot of energy to finding optimal solutions with the appropriateness of the digital form. It's normal for us to tend to ideal solutions. We are aware that only law and practical implementation and application of this law may also suffer further changes in this particular area. Of course, spatial planning is an extremely difficult planning, one of the basic plans, which is very large and is an alphabet and the basis of other plans, and we will therefore agree with this proposal prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Group of Social Democrats, because the system, which this temporary or resolution of the bill clearly distinguishes powers and determines the responsibilities of the State and the Communities in a way that is possible in one way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u194	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Slovenia we have only two space regulators. This is the state and the congregation. Most municipalities have adopted their existing spatial acts in 2003 and 2004. Then the Zurep 1 Space Regulation Act was adopted, and Zurep 2, on the basis of which the municipalities began to prepare professional bases for the spatial development strategy of the municipality and the municipal spatial order. At that time, it turned out that municipalities had great difficulties in obtaining guidelines for land managers, mainly at the state level or in coordinating within a single ministry. On this basis, the Spatial Planning Act, the so-called CFSP Plan, was adopted which imposed on the Ministry of Environment and Space, in particular the Office of Space, to obtain the guidelines and opinions of the space regulators. The law also sets a time limit from the application of the municipality's OOP proposal to the Ministry of Environment and Space, 75 days in which the Ministry must obtain the opinion of the competent space regulators and confirm the spatial plan. The disadvantage of this law, or this way, is that the municipalities were unable to negotiate with individual agents of the regulation of the premises and each negative decision of the individual carrier was a negative decision then also made by the Ministry of Environment and Space. A good year ago, when most Slovenian municipalities were preparing municipal spatial plans, we warned the municipalities and representatives of the Committee on the Environment and Space that there were many spatial plans in preparation and that it would be difficult for the Office for Space and Space Regulators to prepare all of these spatial acts. It was thought that, of course, the deadline that expired in November this year for the adoption of these spatial acts would be extended, but the Minister had assured that the Ministry would organise itself in order to take part in all these spatial plans and to accelerate the adoption of these spatial acts itself. However, this year has passed, and we see that something has not changed significantly, since only six congregations have adopted municipal spatial plans so far. Of course, in order not to come into an unenviable situation, the Government decided to amend this law, thereby extending the deadline for the adoption of complementary spatial plans, as we have already heard, about 50 municipalities are in the stage of adopting these spatial plans. And to relieve the competent Ministry of the Environment and the premises of certain tasks, to return them to the municipalities. While this change is good in giving municipalities the opportunity to negotiate with space regulators, the ILO reserves the possibility of rejecting the draft UNP and the UNP proposal before publication on the global Internet also stall. Why not put the congregation on the Internet? Why does the ILO not just become the carrier of the regulation of the premises for the development of settlements and ultimately the one that checks only the coherence of the OPN with the State Spatial Plan? As the amendment leaves too much scope for space regulators to delay the adoption process, the SDS Group is proposing amendments in order to prevent and impose both the ILO and individual space regulators, in order to ensure that these deadlines are respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! What should I say on behalf of the Zares Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning? Nothing special, except that we will support it, because we know that the deadlines for the preparation of these UNPs must be extended, or that the municipalities would be in an unenviable situation and any interference with the space that would be followed by major economic, social and other damage would be prevented or blocked. And because we believe, but we really just believe that some other changes are useful and necessary. In particular, I would say that we have obviously fallen into some kind of vicious circle in space legislation. A vicious circle when we are actually changing the acts before the previous acts are completed, and so on, we are putting the municipalities in a situation where we are somehow blocking their work in regulating the space. As we know, in the previous term, in 2002 or a little later, ZUREP adopted the first document, which redefined spatial documents, launched municipal "planning machines", sometimes larger, sometimes smaller, to drive the production of new spatial documents, strategic and implementation documents, and before this ended, a new law on spatial planning was already adopted, which stopped these machines at some point and launched them into a new process for the preparation of documents, i.e. the OPN and the documents they produced. That's not good, that's bad, that's what we've already warned about, and this extension is just the result of this vicious circle. I must say that, when we believe that other changes are necessary and useful, I would like to point out once again that, of course, regulating the space is a complex issue, covering the administrative and legal dimension and the planning dimension, namely strategic and implementation planning, covering the area of intervention in the space itself, construction, which is a technical and administrative dimension, and, of course, covering the management of building land as well. And today we've been throwing all this stuff around by law. While we are still following the provisions of building land regulation in ZUREP, we have a special spatial plan for spatial planning, construction and permits to regulate elsewhere and administrative procedures everywhere in a few ways. This solution will not be good, this solution is bad and makes it difficult to work both at the municipal level and at higher levels, even at the state level. At the same time, we expect a law on interventions into a space with longitudinal facilities, and once again we will integrate integrated, comprehensive regulation of the space further in order to be more effective, we will probably put new problems ahead of those who want to intervene in such or other ways. I, of course, believe that this vicious circle, this drive of changes in spatial legislation, must be stopped at some point and seriously considered on the preparation of a spatial code that will bring together all the fundamental elements of space regulation, where space planning is not the only thing, in an overall and comprehensive document. Only in this way, as examples from other countries show, will we be able to reach as much transparent, good and for space and, of course, also for interventions into the space of an acceptable document. At this stage, we will support these changes in the faith that they will at least slightly improve the existing situation and we hope they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we find that this proposal for a law brings greater changes than was envisaged at the outset. It was said that it was only a matter of extending the deadline adopted by the Spatial Planning Act on 30 March 2007, which stipulated that the municipalities should adopt their spatial plans by 14. 11. 2009 At the time, the bill stipulated that the municipalities had already prepared their new spatial acts to a large extent, and in practice it proved that not only municipalities had been poorly prepared for the preparation of municipal spatial acts, but also some state-owned space regulators, who should have provided the necessary professional basis for the preparation of these acts at an early stage. The deadline for the preparation of municipal spatial plans is therefore extended for a good year, which we also support in the SLS Group. Those who are already preparing spatial plans and those who have decided to amend and supplement the existing spatial components of the planning acts should be allowed to complete these procedures, as much work and funding has been invested. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we are not most convinced of the success of the above-mentioned objectives of the bill, which states that the law should address the problems that arise in the procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial plans. The process is changing considerably and, at first sight, it shows that the amendments follow the European Charter of Local Self-Government. As we look at it, it seems to us that the demands may even go worse. For example, the proposal for amendments to Article 51 provides that the approval shall be replaced by an opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which shall then be sent to the Government for information. However, the importance of such an opinion is not as clear as many in this amended process are not the most clear and understandable. Despite the fact that the main solutions to the bill state that it will burden the Ministry of the Environment and the scope of extensive administrative work, we think that the novel brings exactly the opposite, i.e. increased and unnecessary administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Ministry representatives as well! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Planning Act, as the amendment of the law, in addition to other amendments, also offers the possibility of more rapid preparation of new municipal spatial plans. The basic aim of the law is to extend the deadline, since only six municipalities adopted the municipal spatial plan by 14 November this year. In practice, some of the inadequate provisions of the current legislation present problems in the preparation of municipal spatial plans, which is why the proposed solutions are aimed at removing obstacles that prolong their adoption, without prejudice to the content of spatial acts. However, a major change in the procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial plans is that instead of approving municipal spatial plans, the Government is monitoring only a report on their coherence prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The proposed solution is based on the principle of trust, cooperation between the State and the municipalities, as opposed to two levels of authority, and lays down a less-powered approach by the State to the adoption of municipal spatial plans. While the current arrangement places the municipalities in a subordinate position. In the process of preparing municipal spatial plans, the municipalities will draw attention to the possible non-compliance with the opinions of the space regulators, or will be informed in due time that if an illegal municipal spatial plan is adopted, they will be subject to the rule of law. Logically, we can conclude that it is not in the interest of the congregation to adopt illegal spatial acts. A report from the Government will give the opportunity to exempt possible illegal solutions before the adoption of the Municipal Spatial Plan Decision, which is not possible in the case of the current arrangements when the Government approves the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. Since the Ministry of Environment and Space is overloaded for 210 municipalities due to administrative work, it is proposed that its role be to direct the substantive work, while the municipalities themselves will require the regulators to regulate the premises of the guidelines. Regulators shall specify the rules and guide the originator of the municipal spatial plans by means of guidelines. However, if the guidelines are not provided, they will protect the municipality by means of a procedure for the preparation of the municipal spatial plan within the prescribed time limit, and the institution must alert the municipality to any infringement of the rules. In recent years Slovenia has been facing a severe loss of the surface area of the best agricultural land and agricultural processing areas, which is included on the tail of the Member States of the European Union. The master of agriculture, forestry and nutrition often says that we have only 800 square meters of working surfaces per inhabitant. The average in the European Union is 2000. Many municipalities are destroying the best agricultural land by means of spatial acts, which some refuse, reminding us that most of the best agricultural land was lost by building a highway network, where the government, in the process of putting motorway routes into space, followed mainly the cheapest variant. In addition, the change in agricultural land created in the 1980s has become obsolete and, on its basis, the land is now being misvalued. Otherwise, the adoption and adoption of municipal spatial plans has been between the most problematic areas and the cause of disputes between municipalities and the competent ministry for some time. On this subject, an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space of the National Assembly was also called for conclusions calling on the Ministry of Environment and Space to include the professional and financial implications for the municipalities brought by these novelties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled since 14 December 2009. I am putting to the debate first Article 5 and the two amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, I can see the hand. I'm opening the application. Mr. Lah, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much. As I have said before, all amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party go in the direction of preventing unnecessary delay by the environment regulators, as well as by the Ministry of Environment and Space in the adoption of spatial acts, in obtaining guidelines, opinions and also in deciding whether a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is necessary. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to amend the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Spatial Planning Act by not giving the Ministry of the Environment and Space before publishing the material on the Internet to review the material in advance, because we believe that all producers of these spatial acts and the municipality, on the basis of a rule, know what form it should be. The Ministry, when it receives the draft, shall publish within seven days on the world web and shall inform the municipalities to invite the space regulators to submit guidelines within thirty days. Although we also wonder why the congregation would not put this on the Internet itself, it is practically irrelevant and that the ministry is also burdened with this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Of course, it is also the intention of the Ministry of Environment and Space that the hands are respected, that procedures are respected, that the day is not lost, if only possible. But we know from practice that the municipal spatial plans, the drafts coming to the ministry, at least initially were not in a form that could be published immediately on the global web. If the Ministry receives such a document, which can be published immediately, it will be possible to do so as early as seven days, but of course it must be one of the guardians if the municipality does not send the appropriate material, it must be supplemented and, of course, in the congregation, it is to ensure that we can catch the seven-day period as it is written. And if that happens, there's no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you. Anyone else? I can only see one hand. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. When we changed this same law about spatial planning years ago, it was also promised that procedures would run faster. Even today, the government and the competent ministry are promising that we will get to the spatial plans more quickly. Let me tell you one experience. Also because, practically daily, when I am in Idrija, home, in my constituency, people on the road stop and ask me when the congregation will finally adopt a municipal spatial plan, because some are waiting years for decisions by competent authorities, whether they can build on their land for such or other reasons, whether it is necessary to change the destination of the land or to obtain other appropriate solutions in these spatial documents. They stop me every day because these are really long-term procedures. The municipality of Idrija began with the procedure and preparation of new spatial acts in 2006. I don't know if this law will make any difference, we'll see, in a year or two, we'll do a re-analysis and see if this thing runs. Even if we had adopted the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 5, I doubt that we could have made a significant contribution to this. That is why I will vote against this amendment. But I'd like to point out another problem. When I started asking in different departments, when will you prepare an opinion to, say, our municipal spatial plan, because the Ministry of Environment and Space will put this document in all other departments to give their opinion. They say, yes, it is not yet your turn, we must first process this congregation, then that congregation, and if we know it is 210 congregations, I do not see how an official at the agricultural ministry, at the cultural ministry or at any other ministry will be able to examine a number of these proposals within a certain time frame. You said earlier that some 153 such documents were in the process of adopting municipal spatial plans. I don't know how many officials, say at the Ministry of Agriculture, are reviewing these 153 documents, I don't even know how many at the Ministry of Culture to give their opinion. That is why I am simply afraid that this novel will not help much either, as the procedures in individual ministries are taking place too slowly. Whether these documents are too crowded or too slow to work, they may sometimes be underqualified officials who face these very difficult documents. That is why I would have one proposal, which already was discussed by colleague Miran Jerič, when he said he hoped that this law would be valid for at least 10 years or more, so that we could work on the basis of one law, not that we would change it from year to year, because we need, not just in the area of spatial and environmental legislation, some stable legislation, but not a multitude of changes from mandate to mandate, from government to government. So that I think and I have a feeling and I'm saying this from my own parliamentary experience that we've become a predominant society. We should adopt some law and then enforce this law. Not that we change and amend one law within one government, then the new government comes, then put everything on the table again. So that people don't even find themselves anymore, which institution is, according to a new law, envisaged and so on. So, I'd like this novel to really help with the rapid and faster acceptance of these spatial documents, but based on the experience I have, I'm a skeptic. That is why I will not support the amendment to Article 5 proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but of course I will support the law that we will finally be able to, I hope that you are right to get to the spatial documents that people are looking forward to in the Slovenian municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you. Yeah, I see another hand. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u208	I have to take Mr. Kuz's words. In view of the fact that we also have experience when we sent the UN proposal to the Ministry, they were unable to open the CDs because of obsolete equipment, that they not only checked the forms, but that the comments were of a content nature and that the "copy-pasta" for two municipalities were the same and such nature, not in accordance with the rules, but in accordance with the opinion of the referent who processed them. Our amendment, this one, and everyone else, eliminates this ambiguity, which has already been expressed in the position of the Slovenian National Party by a colleague, what concerns him, what their workers in this area find in the municipalities. I would like to ask if we are directly talking about how many people are working on this at the Ministry or at the Office of Space, when we have so many of these spatial acts. Why should regulators review the spatial act for the third time under this law? For the first time in the guidelines, for the second time in opinions and for the third time after the spatial act adopted. We mayors may wonder how many buildings from the cohesion projects of the municipal public infrastructure are waiting for the building plots, how many waste management centres are waiting for the building plots, where. Because if we allow the possibility of delaying reception procedures, they will still be waiting and serious damage is done. As a colleague earlier said he was asked on the street, a fellow Brulc said that 600 Novogorians were asking him when they would get to the building site. Nothing else we want to do with these amendments is just to limit it to some time frame, so that certain space regulators can put their own way. Why didn't this ULN work? Not because of the congregations, as was said here in the position of the SD Group, that they do not have people suitable in the congregations. Now that we are taking or taking responsibility for the ministry and giving it back to the congregations, if they are not able to do so themselves, why do we then impose this on them, as we were told? We know that the problem is in the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture, and we want only to respect certain deadlines. If the time limit is over in the guidelines, the municipality is obliged to comply with all the legislation in force, but it is often the case that the operators of the regulation of the premises do not have a legal basis and they themselves steal certain conclusions and then, because they are not defined in a very good way, there is a conflict with the municipalities because they explain otherwise. In this law, in its amendment, it is good that the congregations can talk, negotiate with the agents of space regulation, but we must not allow this to continue indefinitely. That is why our amendments to this law, only we are listening to, are burdened by the operators of the regulation of the premises of certain tasks, as well as the ILO, the Office of Space, and that the municipality of Account, when it submits a proposal to the Ministry of Environment and Space, may, in due course, come this document through the whole procedure, if everything was professionally done, be carried out. The Office for Space has the opportunity to give its opinion on this spatial act, both the draft and the proposal, in its 30th days as the holder of the regulation from its territory. It's way out of line. And why would they leave certain, burdening certain regulators because they are so burdened by numerical drafts and proposals, for example, just the Office of Space. We just want to help, but above all, those mayors, as well as Members operating in their constituency, could be aware that these amendments are helpful. We agree that the ZPN plan wasn't good, that it didn't work, but why didn't it work? As a result of the state's regulation of the premises, especially for this reason, not so much because of the municipalities, at least we have no proof of that. So I would ask you to support these amendments, I don't think they harm the law itself, they only increase the effectiveness of this law. Finally, I will no longer report to the debate on the last amendment or on the 21st paragraph, where we are re-burdening the space regulators to check after the space act has been adopted, as the colleague earlier said. When the spatial act is adopted, the municipality will be in some uncertainty whether or not someone will initiate proceedings in the Constitutional Court. During this six-month period, if local information and building permit are to be issued, damage will be done to an investor. It is said that this law will be operational six months after the adoption of this law, so that the congregation is confident that this will not be a problem. In my opinion or our parliamentary group, and I am also sure that most mayors, the vice-martials here in the National Assembly, should speed up, relieve the ILO, and also the municipality's regulators. I am convinced that all the manufacturers, all the municipalities now have so much knowledge that, in accordance with the rules and in the right form, they will produce these spatial acts, because it is the responsibility of these manufacturers to the municipalities themselves, that this is done, as well as the guidance provided by the Office for Space, I think that every manufacturer has such that it will not be inconsistent with these rules. So, I think we should support these amendments and lay down our hands so that the congregations know in what time the acts will come through the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you. I see your hands, I'll open the application. Mr. Kus, did you want a word, too? You'll get it now. Mr. Kus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would just like a brief further explanation of what Mr Lah says. Of course, I have said that the amendment is well intentioned to be rejected for one reason; the difference between the original text and the text of the amendment is that you have only allowed words to be published within seven days when the Ministry publishes it on the Internet, that you are proposing to publish it without having to review it. However, we have in the basic text of this article, before it is published on the World Wide Web within seven days, that it is accessible to all operators of the regulation of the premises to see if the Ministry is ready in an appropriate and prescribed manner. And if the material is prepared in an appropriate and prescribed manner, it shall be published immediately. It is that some congregations, despite the instructions they are, and despite the fact that these cases are now getting fewer and fewer, there is some material that is not prepared in the right way to continue to appear. So, this additional short lecture that the ministry can only take a closer look at it, of course it can't hurt and it can't be extended because it's still within seven days. However, if the congregation needs to complete this and correct it, it may be more of a day. That's right. That is why it is only a protector, as I have said, and without this part of the text we must regret to reject this amendment, because it could really cause us great difficulties to just publish it, no matter what text we have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable present. It is true that there is still a lot of confusion in spatial planning, and I therefore welcome any proposal that will come to the National Assembly to take steps in this area for the better. I also believe that local communities should have much more words and roles and competences in this regard. For this reason, the local communities are divided today by announcing in the municipal council that we will begin the process of modifying the spatial plan. Then we gather the interested ones, there is always a lot of them, because a lot of people want to change from farm to construction and then sell parcels or spend them for their own. However, many times it happens that when we collect this, we send it to the Ministry of Local Self-Government or the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, and at that time the municipalities do not send such proposals to these ministries alone. This means that those proposals are somewhere in such an environment where some minimum municipal infrastructure is provided, I don't know, roads, water and electricity, and it's never happened that anyone, any of the services or commissions from these ministries would come to look at the area where the municipalities are proposing change. The answer is usually: "You have many unpaved buildings, and when you build these buildings, you will get agreement on new agricultural land." Now it's happening that in the countryside people who have walled building plots are saving for their children after 20 years and more. So someone who really deserves to have some land turned from farming to construction can't do that. Therefore, it seems to me that the local communities should have more power to do so, or if they had the provinces, they would have transferred these powers to them, they would have been closer to these locations, and then they would have made it easier to assess whether this is acceptable or not. I will therefore vote in favour of all those proposals that give local communities a quicker solution to these problems. In fact, when it is all over and when the government approves a change in the spatial plan, it must be confirmed by the municipal council, which had little to do with it, and the congregation then responds to all those applicants why they did not get construction opportunities on certain agricultural land. There should be more steps to be taken here in order for these matters to be more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Again, I will tell my own experience, which can also be generalized in other congregations. After receiving quite a few negative opinions from our congregation, after a certain deadline, the Ministry of Environment and Space should then, together with the Government, reject such a prepared municipal spatial plan, although it has been preparing from 2006 to this year, practically until the end of this year, and then withdraw this document from the procedure, although some of these opinions have not yet come up. However, the congregation waited for some of the opinions of the individual departments. Finally, this year, it decided to withdraw the proposal of the municipal spatial plan from the validation procedure in accordance with Article 8(51) of the Act. Our specific congregation, or some other opinion, will correct or harmonize these differences with the carriers, and will retransmit the proposed spatial plan with a new role to the competent space regulators. Now I would have a question for the Ministry. In view of the amendment to this law, and also to the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am interested because in the answer to many of the world's questions, the congregation has thus written down when informing citizens and citizens why things have been stalling for so long. So they wrote in the municipality: "We would like to define the timing of the proceedings and to complete them as quickly as possible, but this would be more predictive of our wishes than the result of the legal procedure." That's what they say in the congregation. They continue: "We cannot predict when we will receive the missing opinion nor is it yet a clear procedure after the environmental report has been completed in relation to the applicable Environmental Protection Act" and so on. Thus, neither the mayor nor the municipal administration can explain to their people when we will come up with these spatial congregation plans. However, I would like to know whether this novel will also help in this particular or concrete procedure to obtain municipal spatial plans more quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Couss, would you like to? No, no, no. Then we move on to Article 9 and to the debate on the three amendments to this Article. Who wants to discuss Article 9 and the amendments to this Article? I can't see the deadlines. We are moving on to the debate on Article 10 and the amendment to this Article. I can't see the deadlines. We are moving on to Article 12 and to the amendment to this Article. I can only see one hand. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much. As I said before, at least Article 12 seems to be too much in the opinion of our Group of Members. This is the third loading to space regulators to verify the opinions or whether the spatial plan has already been adopted in accordance with the guidelines and the opinion they have given. This means that the municipality will not be convinced for six months that this spatial plan is in force, since, at that time, the operators may make a request to the Government to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court to verify the illegality of this spatial act. I think that this is entirely unnecessary because, already by law, everyone has every opportunity to give to the Constitutional Court everything that is illegal, but we are also explicitly giving this or imposing on the operators of the regulation of the premises to review within six months, and I think that, given the burdens and available personnel, it is absolutely unnecessary and expressed some mistrust of the State towards the work of local communities, as the institution for regulating the area at the local level. We can see that, earlier, this change was necessary and good to give municipalities the opportunity to draw up guidelines on their own, and to negotiate with the space regulator, this article is totally superfluous because it introduces additional control and mistrust to the contractors, to the municipalities, to regulate the space in their field. If I add only that we have a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia, to which the ministries have spoken in rejecting certain municipal, spatial plans, which in my opinion is a fog, I do not know when, without concreteness, we do not have a state spatial plan. Here, however, the state wants to look at the congregation at every step. The municipality shall comply with all applicable rules in the making of its spatial acts. And although many operators of space regulation or stakeholders, because they are not real agents of space regulation, there is no specific legal basis in the process for their guidelines or for their opinions and they decide on such or other interpretations of the rules at their discretion. In this case, I think some trust is necessary. However, I agree with those who have debated today in order to have some spatial code such as that of Switzerland, I do not know how many years, decades, or even centuries, it is necessary to bring under one roof everything relating to spatial regulation. However, with this change, when we put something out again, and in one part we are putting out, and in the other part we are going to fuel the fire that we will feel, I am sure that all the mayors will be in about half a year and we will recall this debate and these proposals and also these amendments, when, like Mr Bevk said earlier, his congregation or congregation, where he was running, years and years in the process of drafting this spatial act. She's not the only one. There's probably a lot of these stories around here. Let's get these done as soon as possible. And if the state has not done a certain thing, very little in this year, I will not say that it is enough, but let us do it again, because this crisis that has come, even those investors who have some capital, want to invest, in this way we are also preventing investment or allowing them better conditions for the development of the economy or conditions for the development of their activities at a time when it is necessary to look with special sensitivity at this and all forces also exert ourselves at the local level to please those who create added value, but not only those officials who are afraid of their own chair and do nothing more than to do something wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you. I see another hand. Mr. Yuri Franco, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This article, which discusses the exercise of the control of legality, should also take little account of the facts which suggest that sometimes it would be advisable to implement comprehensive legality, including feedback from the State of the municipality. And this is one constant that is unfortunately repeated in all of these revised articles and in fact ignores the simple fact that in three planners, these are carriers of planning, municipalities, and the country, on the other hand, sometimes there are short contacts, with illegal activities not always, always and exclusively in the municipalities. This doctrine states that the potential non-compliance with the law is only on the municipal side. Now I'm going to take a position, a little less orthodox, but I'm also coming from concrete experience. Let me tell you one thing. In the planning of one of the coastal municipalities, there was a disagreement or negative opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture in the treatment of certain land. In its replies, the Government, therefore, concluded that no other category of land planning should be carried out, which is not actually within the jurisdiction of the State, but by all existing rules and categorisations originating in the ancient 1980s, would be the responsibility of the municipality. And there is no way to resolve the dilemmas that sometimes hinder the planning and adoption of the municipal spatial plan, and there are time barriers that are hindering the development of municipalities. It is certainly necessary to exercise strict control over all irregularities which may occur there. I also agree that maximum protection of the best agricultural areas, ecologically interesting areas should be ensured, but there are also abuses of these powers and decisions that are outside the remit of the ministries themselves. And unfortunately, all these amended articles and the amendments that have been tabled actually give rise to this ambiguity. Article 12 also gives rise to all the burdens and potential suspicions of irregularities on the part of the municipalities. If we're being objective, that's not exactly fairplay. The State and the Government would also be expected to verify possible irregularities by the ministries, as I assure you - I have deepened into a matter and, in fact, I have been warned by expert planners that unfortunately there are also such cases. Of course, they do not concern your ministry, they refer to another ministry, but I think it would be more appropriate, for principle and practical reasons, to add this other side to this article. And we would also allow local communities and planners to warn and to require maximum respect for the legality of all planning actors. I know it's a little complicated, because the supervisor is a country and the local community are a controlled entity in this story. But this is one principle that should be followed. From this point of view, I understand the complaints and criticisms made by the local community and those who know the problem of the municipalities. I am for the transparent functioning of all the institutions, all the institutions involved in the planning, starting with the Ministry of Government, which must be exemplary. And it is only for this to require that the congregations be strict in complying with all legal rules and also in adopting the logic of such supervision. Otherwise, I agree with the article, I agree with the article. I only recognize this flaw, which not only concerns your ministry, but it is some flaw that is felt entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 12? Mr. Couss, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. I will begin in the debate initiated by Mr Juri. This control mechanism for space regulators is now incorporated into this Article 12. In fact, this procedure, which goes to the Constitutional Court through the Government, is precisely the mechanism that initiates the debate at the Government, whether the operators of space regulation, the individual ministries, have, in fact, duly written down all the guidelines as they should be. And this control can already be done there, whether they exaggerated the guidelines in one direction or another, or were they too harsh, or were they such that they did not even consider life’s proposals and are already clear there. And if we move on then, what Mr Lah has discussed, the government rejects the deletion of this article because that is exactly what we wanted to achieve in some way to simplify the process. In fact, the procedure is exactly the same as it has been in the past six months, in fact, only some ministries are relieved of this procedure, that they do not need to be alerted to the congregations in these six months and that they then impose these corrections on the congregation, but that they go through the Government and then directly to the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, the procedure is exactly the same and there is no third control. That is exactly what we wanted to achieve, which is now apparent that this is missing in this article. These two mechanisms are in place in this Article. It's not about extra supervision, it's about control of the space regulators, not just the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to Article 21 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the timetable for the meeting, which will be at 6 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u222	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda - secondly, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Offences, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 32. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the SDS Group? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have already made it very clear when we present the Group's position that we will consider supporting the law if the amendment is adopted. The amendment has not been adopted, so I can say very briefly that we support four good solutions to this law. I have already listed them in the introduction, from coordination with the Code of Criminal Procedure to the equalization of drivers of beginners, the limitation of official duties and the verification of this and certain powers relating to perpetrators of offences. Unfortunately, this law brings about a fundamental weakness that we have already been alerted to in twinning projects before entering the European Union. We have been very clear about the fact that the higher courts have overly overturned the judgments of the lower courts and have returned them to re-judgment. This is an anomaly that is less known or unknown within the various judicial systems of European countries. It must be said that, two years ago, with Smurf's law so-called, we abolished the possibility of higher courts to return to the courts of first instance. The system turned out to be a good one. Today, the coalition shuts it down. The Secretary of State has made it very clear on the Committee that the coalition is terminating this because the first-degree courts issue judgements, judgments that do not have sufficient grounds, and judgments that are not based on evidence, and judges say, will already be decided differently by the higher judges. Of course, this is no reason to change the law. Actually, there's no reason to change the law. If there is any reason to act at this critical point represented by the Ministry or the State Secretary, then it is time for judicial control mechanisms to be activated. However, the judicial control mechanisms are those that can remedy such irregularities, the judicial control mechanisms are those that can also resolve the judge at the extreme stage, and these mechanisms should be activated. The judicial branch of the authorities of its mechanisms, which it is not prepared to activate, and the coalition is obviously prepared to assist in the further extension of judicial proceedings, since the return to the first stage means longer judicial proceedings, also means more money from taxpayers' pockets [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for trials in so-called unreasonable deadlines. [[...]] That's why I'm predicting we're not going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs, under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u225	Respectable. Surely one of the key arguments for the adoption of this amendment is that the vote will be issued on the latest amendment to this law in the previous term when the opposition's argument was adopted by the government at that time that the entire diplomacy should be purely professional, that is to say professional, and that every door to politics should be closed to diplomacy. The vote, ladies and gentlemen, which today is contrary to the proposals of the day, to the words, you are doing the exact opposite of what you are doing today, was virtually unanimous. The vast majority of all voted in favour, only one vote; this was the current President of Parliament and it was against. All other members of the SD voted in favour, without exception. It's interesting that then a respected SD member said this morning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u226	Dear colleague Grims, this is no place for controversy now, this is [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u227	But it is a place to list the arguments, Mr President. that now, that sometimes they did something different, but now it's a new time. [[...]] I don't know, a not-so-known writer wrote that it's not really a new time to be a great new world. The beautiful new world, in which there is a huge difference between words and actions, and this is in fact the only notable political note of the current coalition, which, contrary to what it has advocated in the previous term, is clearly aggressive now opening the door to political recruitment. And what it will be like, when the government sent people abroad in this mandate, we were able to convince ourselves. This may be a reward for a great lie, the withdrawal of people who want to be removed from the public's eyes abroad, because it is considered to burden the Government, its reputation and diplomacy, ladies and gentlemen, must not become an institutionalised landfill of your redundant personnel. That is exactly what this is all about. He was rightly raised by the voice of the union of professional diplomats, and we therefore propose that this article, which opens up the possibility that 1 in 10 will be called a political, non-professional diplomat, but politically that it will be a reward for some pre-election promises or whatever you already had in mind. You could just put the names in here, you said five people would be right away. This in SDS for sure [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Franco Juri Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. The Zares Group will vote against this amendment because we estimate that the amendment is irresponsible, indecisive, because it would delete one of the key articles of this law and return the law to the conditions for the appointment of ambassadors that we have known from the previous law. These conditions were a significantly smaller commitment to professionalism. However, this law, Article 13, sets out the criteria and conditions under which the Ambassador may be appointed, including those ambassadors who come from outside which are not an integral part of the Foreign Ministry and who must nevertheless ensure the conditions of professionalism and this 14-year practice in the field of foreign policy, including economic foreign policy. This is a novelty of this law as well as of Article 13. Therefore, of course, we cannot accept the amendment of the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats shall be given by Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats will not support this amendment. We have already explained in this debate this morning why we are opposed to such an amendment. Let me just say this for a second. It is precisely this 13th article, in a new sense, that establishes the constitutionality and legality of this regime, which is now being adopted by this law. These debates on how he ever voted in the previous term, if Mr Grims thought of me, I have spoken strictly today about how the debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy took place, not about how the debate took place [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u232	Not to mention the names of Members in the explanations of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u233	I'm sorry, Mr President, that I mentioned the name of my fellow Member after all. I'm sorry here. At that time, we supported this amendment of the law because we viewed it as a whole. However, the amendment tabled by Mr Lahovnik of that time was not a single opinion on the Committee itself. Today, I can say that this amendment, which the SDS Group is re- tabled, is not acceptable to us because it prevents us from establishing a normal state of constitutionality and legality. This is, as provided for in Article 49 of the Constitution, that, under the same conditions, the same job is available to everyone. And today, we have also heard in Mr Žbogar's explanation for the foreign affairs minister, if the novel had not been adopted as proposed today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government and the President of the Republic had problems against the Slovenian Ambassador to the OECD. For such an expert, who is supposed to be the ambassador of Slovenia to the OECD, cannot overcome the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And it is normal not to overtake it, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been so organised and has no such specialists in this history for 19 years that would be suitable for all kinds of professional areas required by different international organisations. Speaking of which, we have an ambassador at WIPO, an international organization for industrial property. There is a need for highly specialized quality knowledge. Someone tell me whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today has an expert, a specialist in industrial property or intellectual property. He doesn't have it! So there's no reason to let this circle of potential potential candidates be closed. It is true that this time's novelty specifically stipulates that candidates for ambassadors must be experts in foreign policy, international relations, international law and other matters which are inherent in the work carried out by the Ambassador. The Group of Social Democrats of this amendment cannot, for principle reasons, emphasise, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors, Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Group of Members, I believe that the amendment is neither irresponsible nor indecisive. It is true, however, that it is similar to the solution proposed by a fellow Member in his previous term and agreed with by the previous government. I recall well that at the time, despite considerable concerns about such a solution, because it was not the Government's proposal, this was a proposal that was put into law with the amendment, we had quite a few concerns, but we supported it; I agree with the colleague who showed the vote. However, I am sure that the current solution is also significantly better to solve many problems. The previous solution - and in the case of the adoption of the amendment, the previous solution remains too closed, regardless, I agree that there may also be political speculation as early as now, to close or open to anyone, but it seems to us that such a solution as is proposed is good. We have already said in the opinion of the Group that it allows experts from the economy and various other aspects of our lives to occupy these cities, of course, at the prescribed diplomatic examination, which is not exactly a cough. For this reason, we will not confirm this amendment to Article 13 in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. First of all, Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I signed up for the end, thinking I'd end up in line, but no matter what, it's not worth making a big joke about that word. I repeat. I cannot support this amendment for principled reasons. It is not constitutionally correct to close the round of those potential candidates who could run for Ambassador because I cannot say that someone who has been employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since his beginning of his career is a better expert than one who may have done a good part of his professional career in comparable services in various other ministries of foreign affairs or in Parliament or in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And there are other professions that, given how diplomacy is developing, could not be taken into account, but they certainly have more expertise that is required for individual deserts, if I may say so. And Slovenia has too many experts in various fields to close the possibility that, at some point in time, when the need arises, it may acquire someone who has also worked in a comparable area for 14 years, but who is an expert in international law, foreign policy, economic international relations, could not assume such a function. This has also proved to be so many times, although many say that these were political recruitments, that such experts were very successful, starting with today's President of the Republic of Slovenia and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I myself will vote on the question of the recruitment of political officials to the ambassadorial posts, just as I voted in the previous term as a government Member on the same issue. That's when I supported the amendment of opposition Member Matthew Lahovnik, today your minister. And I am voting the same way now. But it is your prediction that you will vote differently than you did in your previous term, precious to Slovenian voters. This is an indication of your actions and an identifying sign for voters as to how this coalition is fulfilling its commitments, its predictions when it changed from the opposition to the government coalition. No more commitment is important, and the ambassadorial careers of your political officials are important. And I'm sure that's also one of the reasons your minister called such behavior a political game. And vote as many times as possible so that people will know as much as possible what political games you are going to play, what your commitments to them are and what your next moves will be. You will always break the word you once gave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u241	Of course, I will support this amendment, because it is the only thing that means consistency between words and actions, which we respect consistently in the SDS. I will also vote in favour of the amendment because, even in the morning's absence, I have waited to explain to anyone in the coalition what they have been so resented by Mr Sovič of SD, who was genuinely politically recruited by the past government, but at the personal request of the current Prime Minister of the Government, as far as I know, there have been so many reports of political recruitment, and by those in the same breath, in the same speech, generally advocated the principle that they would fight for the professionalism of diplomacy by appointing 10% of people in diplomacy politically. But they will fight corruption by bribed 10% against poverty by further impoverishing 10% of Slovenes and Slovenians. Well, with a government like that, we'll all probably be poor soon. Nevertheless, policy should be a policy of values. And one of them is to respect the words given, the word given, which is visible from the voting list of the previous term, and my voice will be the same as it was then. This will be a vote for professional, professional diplomacy, in which there is no direct political recruitment, such as, unfortunately, imposing what you are looking for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much. An explanation for Dr. Vinko Gorenak's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. What are we talking about? We are therefore talking about whether our diplomats will be professional or whether politicians will appear among them. That's what we're talking about. First time. The matter is clear. For 12 years you had the opportunity and you also employed politicalally in diplomatic types. From 2003 to 2008 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u244	Comrade Dr. Gorenak, this is not a room for controversy, but for explanation of the voice: how you will act, not how others acted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u245	Please, if you'll excuse me, President. Please, let me speak again. From 2004 to 2008, you took advantage of the opportunity for your member, Mr Sovic. Next, in 2007, we legalised your proposal, which you have submitted, so that diplomats can only be professional. That's what we've accepted. Today, when you are in power, the situation is, of course, reversed. For the purposes of your political recruitment, you want to reintroduce 5% of politicians or other people with this amendment, of your choice as diplomatic. This is the truth of this amendment. And this amendment of ours needs to be adopted in order to prevent this from returning to the state that was at your request in the previous term. All the talk that we hear here today about the right to work and similar things, and all the perversion that we've heard from some people I can't name because I'm explaining my voice, but of course it's worth all the condemnation and deserves a diploma. At the end of this term, we may be able to give a degree in law, but let's say it's a demagogic diploma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this amendment alone, because it closes the possibility not only for those who would be selected or sent abroad to the respective positions of the government coalition, but also opens the door to any former foreign minister of yours, and I am surprised that by accepting this amendment, you are shutting down the possibility of candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u248	No controversy, no controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u249	That's not a controversy, that's an explanation for the voice. I am talking about the fact that, after this solution, which is on the table, which we would like to destroy in the SDS, and to change that this solution also allows their candidates to run, but it is true that in this mandate only candidate. Thank you very much. I'll vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you to reapply. An explanation of Melita Župevc's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote against this amendment. I already said in the debate today that this amendment essentially deletes the essence of the law itself, this is the professionalisation of Slovenian diplomacy. That 10% is not just 10%, the law provides for the possibility that diplomats can also become diplomats who are not professional diplomats. I welcome such an opportunity, I believe that, as the Minister has said today, professional diplomacy can be built on openness and not on imprisonment. And today there was a lot of talk about old times and new times. As it is said, at times there was another doctrine, when a former minister said, he did not say, that's what he thought: "Foreign politics is me." Today, we understand that foreign policy is good [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Look, a while ago, I think two days ago, a public assessment of this Parliament's work was published and your behavior shows and is a real picture of why the Slovenian Parliament has such a low rating [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u252	Please, Mrs Melita Župevc, this is not an explanation of vote. Please proceed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u253	Mr. Jelinčič, I don't care if you're disappointed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u254	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u255	As it is said, I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party; I believe that this amendment undermines only the essence of the law, which is good, so the openness of the system, which will also bring something positive into Slovenian diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. Speaking of 10%, of course we're talking about an exception. Some statements suggest that we are talking about professional diplomats, and all those who are not professional diplomats, of course, assume that they must be politicians. No! No! It's just that every system that stays closed is as sad as it used to be. This government has started with an ambitious foreign policy policy, re-evaluated our foreign policy priorities, particularly in the Western Balkans, where we have many economic interests as well. Since some of the discussions referred to Mr Boris earlier, I had the privilege of learning politics from this man in my life. And today, when the ambassador of our country is in Israel, I can say that the former government can represent a proud appointment because it is considered unofficially the second most important ambassador in Israel, immediately after the ambassador of the United States. Not because he comes from an influential country, but because he built one reputation with his work, his reputation, and his commitment. And such ambassadors need this country if it is to achieve its foreign policy priorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u259	I will not support the amendment because the amendment would constitute a legal void because it would lower the standard that would be achieved by what is proposed in the law. We would go back to seven years of work experience, go back to the procedures without checking knowledge before the expert group set up by the Minister under this article of the law, and go back without needing any specific conditions, the knowledge necessary for someone to occupy these places. I'm not convinced by any records or finger pointing back. Let's go back. It'll be better. Back in history, you go to the dump site of history or where it all survives. I am firmly convinced that everyone in his field, and so also the Minister and the Government have found in this field of foreign policy, must check what is better, what is more comparable to developed democracies, with regulated legislation, including in the field of foreign policy in these countries. And that's what this article is talking about, and the amendment is returning to some old state. I'm pretty sure, and I said that this morning in the debate on this amendment because it's so funny if you had the chance to convince the world public that Darwin wasn't right, you'd have gone 200 years ago. But I hope not, so this amendment cannot be supported. And we need to follow higher standards, higher standards that we set ourselves. And if it's not 14 years of work experience more than 7, and it's a better experience if this exam isn't before the expert committee better than without a test, and there's a kind of other thing, then I don't know what it is. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Janja Klasinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u261	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Mr. President! If we accepted this amendment, we would spit on all efforts of Slovenian diplomacy to get even closer to professional standards in the European Union. Look at the amendment proposing the SDS deletion of this article. This would mean that the ambassadors would no longer be just the most experienced people, including professional diplomats. This article requires an ambassador to have at least 14 years of working experience in this area, both as a professional diplomat and as well as as as one coming from the outside. And now political recruitment is evident. Let's not be ridiculous! Is this political recruitment, and how many people are in Slovenia, which has fourteen years of international experience, of which at least three years also in leading cities, which speak several foreign languages and is able to represent the Republic of Slovenia at such a high level? So far, this has not been the case since the present law, so this morning we have heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that, in the previous term, a total of 1/3 ambassadors abroad have been appointed by political key. Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote against the amendment because the amendment and also the justification for this amendment are based on false assumptions. We have heard that Article 13 should allow for political recruitment for at least a dozen ambassadors. It just doesn't hold. Let the gentlemen who have tabled this amendment read this article again and find that the conditions for the appointment of ambassadors are clearly defined. These conditions do not permit political recruitment, and for the first time, we have the opportunity to conclude this story in such a way that the political recruitment that we have witnessed in the previous term will finally cease to exist. If we do not vote, and I will not vote for this amendment, we will probably no longer experience such stories as the appointment of an ambassador without adequate education, the forcing of aggression with pressure on another country, etc. If I can also argue with a quote from Mr Peter Toš, a professional diplomat who writes, "direction to the development of economic diplomacy requires a certain number of success stories from certified economists who are not present among diplomats". This is one such case that speaks in favour of and against the adoption of Article 13 [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment myself. I am thinking completely with my head, and I believe that individuals who also come as non-professional diplomats in this system can be of great added value. I know the case of Japan myself. I believe that Mr Skender is certainly the right person in the right place. It bothers me, however, that individual laws change for the daily needs of certain political options. That really bothers me. By the time we have allowed our political rivals in the opposition and in the workforce, we are against, but when we come to power, then we need some important high jobs for deserving such and other supporters of individuals, and then the law must be turned to its head, changed, changed its position and so on and so on. That doesn't seem right, it's not right and it's not fair. I will not support the amendment because I think it is better that someone else, not just a career diplomat, can come to these jobs. For example, in Russia, the best way to see Mr Škrabac or Mr Kovacic would probably be an optimal option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up again. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dejan Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. I must say that I will vote against this amendment. I am not even burdened by previous votes in the previous term, but I will vote against this amendment mainly for a living reason. This law allows five non-professional diplomats to be appointed to ambassadorial posts, not necessarily politicians, but also economists. In the past, it has been shown that any of these decisions may have been good and not only politically motivated. And perhaps a question primarily for the opposition, because quite a few of the names have been exposed here. Is Franci Booth a bad ambassador? I don't think so. Is Miroslav Luci a weak ambassador? I don't think so. And these aren't career diplomats. These are the diplomats who have been appointed to this function. You're two-faced here. You spit in your own bowl here. Not even such people could be diplomatic here under this law because conditions are sharper. But people who have shown that they can work in places like this should be diplomats. They do not necessarily be politicians, they can be economists. At some point, politics must decide who would be suitable for the role of ambassador in a country. I'm sure we can choose the best people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u268	Thank you very much. John Grill has an explanation for his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this amendment, because this amendment has, in fact, brought this law back to the level that allows for a genuine choice of such ambassadors who will be able to contribute to Slovenia's reputation and also to quality. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u270	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u271	The ambassador is a mirror of Slovenia in another country, whether we admit it or not. [[...]] If we had good ambassadors, distinguished, many national interests could also be better and more successful at the international stage. We can take Croatia as one such case. Without this amendment, this law will allow for political recruitment. That's in your interest. As already mentioned by the coalition MPs today, such a law without this amendment will allow the opposition or this political option to run, I emphasise, only run, but there is no choice. So I suggest that when you reject this amendment, save it, as well as magnetograms, because when you're in the opposition, if not sooner, in three years, I think you'll be making this amendment on your own, because you're going to want this thing back, as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The explanation of vote in his own name is Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we are again witnessing the great duality of the current coalition. Where he is in opposition, one criterion applies when he turns when he enters the coalition, the other criteria apply. And it's for exactly the same cases. There's another thing, which is a very big problem. In this mandate, we have somehow already faced the fact that the coalition adopts the special laws of lex Cvikl when it was necessary to provide the Secretary-General with some ratings and we had to change the law on the nose and now listen to another case, lex OECD. This is said to change the law just to get someone to meet some specific criteria for appointing an ambassador to the OECD. Is it perhaps lex Gaspari or is lex another minister or senior official of the current coalition? That's how Minister Zalar said a month ago. The laws are not adopted. Laws are general provisions, they regulate general standards and they cannot regulate certain special solutions, as in this case. And I'm just wondering why there are still some open embassies, say, Zagreb, Belgrade, I think Rome and some other. Probably solely to place certain personnel through this amendment of the law in these important embassies. I do not think that it is possible to implement policy, nor foreign policy. This is contradicted by every logic, and I will therefore also support this amendment to go ahead with an appropriate and appropriate solution, which has been put into effect since 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members present, 19 votes against 52. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 73 Members present and 28 votes against 44. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted for the second reading of the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mag. Branko Grims has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u275	Of course, we will not support this law in the SDS. It is sad that a policy can emerge that in one situation advocates one when the situation changes, the rules of the game are exactly the opposite of what has been advocated before. We firmly believe that every policy should be consistent in its conduct and that it should be consistent in its words and actions. Unfortunately, we note that the opposite is true of the current coalition. The difference between words and actions is great, obvious, irresistible, and sadly for those who do so in great shame. In doing so, we simply cannot understand how it is possible not to even prepare an argument for this, obviously political, intervention and even in the morning, we have listened to the heavy evidence of the political staffing of the previous government, and even in the afternoon we are listening to praises to the politically elected personnel for diplomacy by the previous government before listening to the opposition at the time, and this kind of political interference with diplomacy has made it impossible. Make up your mind, but together, ladies and gentlemen, it's not going to work. You're in total contradiction here. In the SDS, we will remain consistent with the principles that we decided then, because we are convinced that only such a policy means a policy that is credible and only such decisions strengthen people's confidence in the country and its institutions. While changing attitudes from day to night, from black to white, from professional to political recruitment, depending on the current situation of individual political forces, it certainly does not lead to any increased confidence, at least in those who do so, but unfortunately not in the institutions of the country as a whole. And that's a big problem. Then political abstinence increases, the mistrust of citizens and citizens in this country increases, and we can only point once again to the vote list, which showed an extremely high level of consensus in the previous term. Today, when you break the consensus reached in the previous term by your decision, you are, of course, opening the door completely [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] different treatment. [[...]] We firmly believe that we could actually write the names of those involved. After all, why is it exactly 14 years old, why is it not 15 years old or 10 years old? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I will not support the law at the start, but I will not support it simply because the coalition majority is moving forward and playing a double role. A double role because for the first 12 years of political recruitment, then for the time of another government, when it is in opposition, comes the day after the proposal that there should be no more political recruitment, but that we should go only so-called professional diplomatic recruitment. We listened to it at the time, and we legalized it. Today, when this majority is back in power, it goes arrogantly against the position of the union of professional diplomats. The union of professional diplomats has made clear their position. The coalition goes against this and introduces about 10% of diplomats who are not supposed to be a professional diplomat. He knows how to talk about professionalism and what I know, that I personally consider it to be an obvious lie in Parliament. This is unacceptable, because I expect that we will probably be able to re-adopt the previous solution, i.e. the one in force to date, when the elections are coming. And this is the solution to having only professional diplomats. Of course, it is expected that during this time you will reward and install those ambassadors who are "fitting" you politically. That is why, of course, I will vote against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u278	Thank you. Voice explanation, Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law because it is a good one, and it actually means an upgrade to the previous law, which has had a lot of shortcomings. The former law was so flawed that the measure or proposal adopted by the colleagues of the National Assembly at the time was necessary. Needed to finally curb the abuse of bad marriage and further political recruitment. It's not like that this time. There are quite a few convincing guards in the law, we talked about Article 13. And the only attempt to reopen the doors to politicisation failed when we did not accept an amendment that required the consent of the Committee on Foreign Policy to appoint ambassadors. Since this amendment has not been adopted, the law remains unpolitical, the law of professionalism remains, and professionalism is measured not only in the closed area of the foreign ministry, but primarily by the adoption of Article 13, which has several conditions and criteria under which the ambassador may be appointed. The law finally regulates a certain order of appointment procedures and in fact allows for a significantly greater professionalisation of diplomacy than that known to us by previous laws. That's why I will strongly support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u281	Of course I'll support this law. I will support it because it introduces order into the House of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It introduces organisation, supervision at embassies, regulates the training and education of diplomats, checks on their knowledge, enables a career system and also introduces strong criteria for professionalisation in all areas. The possibility that, exceptionally, 10%, in numbers, colleagues and colleagues, means 5 non-professional ambassadors abroad to 50, which, while being sent from our country to missions abroad, is only a fraction of this law. And it is sad that today most of our debate has been devoted only to this work, not to how this law enhances the quality of our diplomacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The explanation for the vote is Darka Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this law. There's a lot of things coming up where certain things happen over and over again. This is not right and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment of the law on external matters because I wanted to go to the development of our diplomacy to the extent of professionalism and to ensure the high standards necessary for the proper representation of the country. The intent of marriage is different. I am not only disturbed by the fact that it reintroduces the principle of political recruitment to diplomatic posts, I am also disappointed that it has also rejected the proposal that the opinion of the National Assembly or the Committee on Foreign Policy regarding the appointment of ambassadors be re-binding. We know that this experience has been positive, that during the period when this opinion became non-binding, the situation has deteriorated. I expected that the centre or important place of decision on Slovenian diplomacy would be transferred back to the National Assembly. I also expected this because Mr Wigel, the previous president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, was very clear about this. But you're changing your mind from day to day, and that's where the change happened. This coalition allowed the Slovenian foreign policy decision centre to move even to another power centre, even from the government, from the foreign ministry to other centres, to other parts of Slovenian foreign policy or Slovenian policy. It is simply not possible to agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I request applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The explanation for the vote is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u287	In fact, the only quality of this law is that it exposes the vast difference between the words and the actions of the current coalition. From this point of view, this law was actually welcome. However, that it is not worthy of support, the solutions in it, which speak of re-politicisation, of leaving open issues of conflict between different officials when it comes to regulating foreign policy, and, above all, of any solution in this law, of the desire for the greatest possible degree of politicisation and political recruitment in the field of diplomacy. I would like to remind you that it did not want to support the amendments to resolve the situation that has proven to have caused Slovenia a great deal of political suffering, I fear, even material damage, when a whole range of candidates with various games were rejected and allowed by the current space left to such games, and therefore they were too late to be called diplomats to key places in some embassies. Slovenia has therefore suffered a great deal of damage. And that it does not want to end this in order to adopt an appropriate solution that would make such an act of law impossible, shows that it wants to maintain an additional space for political recruitment. This is certainly an additional argument to vote against. The current state of affairs, in particular, has caused great damage to Slovenia, and the National Assembly should do everything in order to prevent such a thing from happening in the future. Otherwise, you take those who prevent it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u289	The Honorable President. Of course, I will vote against this law. It seems very important to me to stress that today, just a few minutes ago, it was said that this law is being passed for one and a key reason to prevent the abuse of the bad law adopted in the previous term. On the other hand, these same ladies and gentlemen claim to be one of Dr Miroslav Luci's best ambassadors, whom I agree to be. Then speak to fellow Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u290	Comrade Pojbich, you must speak of yourself, of your voice, not of the voices of others. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u291	That's right, but I'm explaining why I'm going to vote against the law. Among other things, you're talking about Boris Sovic. And, dear colleagues, the Mariborians will surely remember how capable Mr. Sovič is and how capable he was to lead the city of Maribor. And today, one of the Members is allowed to say that this is one of the best ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia. I have already said in the introduction that I will not support this law because I am sure that this law opens the door wide to political personnel. And I am sure that it will certainly be those five candidates who were still needed and useful during the elections for the National Assembly, and how they have certainly contributed to the fact that these parties to the coalition today are obliged to provide them with a job, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Who they'll be pleased with. [[...]] And on the other hand, of course, they'll have a strong enough compound if I can call it that. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 21. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the building law, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 52 to 24. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to Article 64, which is to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 64, and I would point out that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment for Article 80a. If this amendment is not adopted, it will become an amendment to the new 80.a. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 28 to 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. With this, the amendment to the new 80th article became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 78. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 78 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. [[They don't want to.]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, for 51, for 6. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Daniel Krivec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. I would like to remind you that all the amendments you have rejected in this debate have been intended for exactly what everyone in this Chamber and on the committees listens to all this mandate. It is said to accelerate the adoption of spatial legislation, the adoption of municipal spatial plans, the adoption of all legislation which also allows for faster absorption of both cohesion and all other resources. By rejecting all the amendments, you are not giving us the opportunity to support this law, because it does not bring what you all wanted, but because of your ignorance you do not read in detail what you are voting on, so you are putting us in a situation where we cannot support this law. So that we will still be able to testify at the meetings of the Committee on Environment and Space, the Committee on Transport, the Committee on the Economy to the grounds that certain projects cannot be implemented because we have fastened hands at the local level as well as all the institutions that are preparing documents to place objects and investments in space. I hope you will listen to at least one next opportunity to improve some legislation with our help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the Trinitarian Victory concerning the resolution of border issues. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group shall be given by the Victory of Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our prime minister has shown complete ignorance of historical facts, legal facts and more. What he's saying is throwing sand in your eyes and it's about following orders he got here or there. I'm not going to let go of what those orders were, but time will bring all the information on who he was who asked him to be and what he asked of him or even maybe what he got for it. I think it makes sense that we are discussing the Slovenian national space in a slightly different way, but not in the way the Slovenian government assumes it does not care much about the Slovenian national space. Unfortunately, it is a Slovenian policy, the Ljubljana policy has always been one that has wasted Slovenian national territory. Today we have only one third of Slovenia's national territory and this is still in violation. Considering how we work with our country and with our territory, like a pig with fur, it is high time we changed that relationship. It is high time that we at least start talking, open our eyes to some and start thinking in the interests of our own people and our own country. Unfortunately, we don't have that today. The Prime Minister doesn't care what happens to his country, so one wonders if his country is even here in Slovenia. And maybe even more, is this country even here on earth if there's no higher up in any other spheres. I think it's high time we talked about this. It is high time to say certain starting points, certain historical facts and to listen to some other experts, but not just those sociorealistic mercenaries from our college, who care little about everything, because they have well-paid jobs, synecuro when they sit there in their cathedrals and impose stupidities which then some other students spread around. We know that most politicians don't understand what this is all about. I think it's high time we talked about this and I hope that the National Assembly will accept this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. May I have peace in the hall, please? There is a need for a vote. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Irgl will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Eva Irgle's question on ensuring the realization of human rights. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u297	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I asked the Prime Minister yesterday why, including his client, he supported Tomaž Ertl's medal, even though most Slovenians recognize him as a symbol of the denial and disrespect of human rights. In his own style, the President of the Government avoided a specific response. He was also very embarrassed by this, which further proves how very controversial this distinction is by the President of the State. Tomaž Ertl was the head of the most repressive body in the country. This is the person who was blocking the democratisation processes at the end of the 1980s. She monitored and supervised the contents at the time in the New Magazine, Youth, secretly filmed, shut down a large number of people, including Janez Janša, violated fundamental human rights, acted against anyone who was against the then party authority and more. In response from the President of the Government, although he was trying to persuade us in his performance to move away and raise us above the previous one-party system, it appears that he is still very much in agreement with this move by the President of the State, since he has not proved with anything that he is opposed to this distinction. If the President of the State or the President of the Government were truly such a great Democrat as he tried to convince us yesterday, then he should strongly oppose this decoration. He didn't do it. I should also strongly object to this distinction because I am confident that Mr Borut Pahor knows exactly that in February 1990, Mr Ertl in Belgrade took a firm stand against self-determination and that the actions of the then, I will say, he even called the fighters for independence an opposition extremism, not to mention that he was also behind the planted bomb in Veliovac, as the leader of the secret political police, who led it for 12 years. The adoption of the President of the Government in his question is obvious, but it is not surprising. This is not surprising, for rejuvenation of the past and magnification and the resurgence of communist symbols is part of the government’s operation. It is because of all this that I am convinced that we must speak in this room about this controversial appointment or decoration, so I hope that you will also support this extensive debate on the Government's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour, 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Radovan Žerjeva in connection with the surplus of employees in the state administration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support this proposal. On Monday, the President of the Government confirmed his statement that it was the power of the state administration to work with half the less employees. I understand his position in particular in terms of lowering the costs of public administration, which I personally strongly support, because I believe that the costs of public administration need to be reduced radically in order to be able to relieve the Slovenian economy on the other hand. What bothers me, though, is that actions do not follow words. I have talked many times in this room or in this room about budgets, the indices that are both budgeted for 2010 and 2011 do not follow these words, so they do not follow that costs for all budget consumers would be drastically and radically reduced. Since this is a matter of confusion or differing views, I think it is right that we discuss this once again in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u300	Thank you very much. We vote, the vote is on. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Petk will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question of Mr Petk's question on the departure of confidential information. An explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Miro Petek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u301	Thank you very much. To my question about diplomatic incontinence, this is uncontrolled data leakage by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have not received a satisfactory answer. I also allow the possibility that my thesis on uncontrolled leakage is wrong and that it is from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide controlled data to foreign diplomats or possibly even foreign intelligence services, which is scandal, treason or even crime. The minister also avoided my question about the Washington dispatch. At the time, Minister Žbogar was in Washington, D.C., and when this dispatch was made, he was on vacation, and he did not press the right marking on this dispatch. Together with Mr Drobnik's dispatch writer, they are rewarded today, the first is the Minister, and the second is the Ambassador in Berlin. For Slovenia, however, the damage caused by this dispatch was enormous. Let us just remember what was happening in Belgrade, life was threatened, the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia were threatened both in Serbia and Kosovo and elsewhere. When Minister Zbogar said yesterday that data protection standards had improved, we could at the same time find out that the Government has agreed to appoint two ambassadors. Before the ambassadors came to Parliament and to the hearing, and before the President of the Government signed their appointment, the public had already been informed. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it just doesn't close. Yesterday, the Minister also confirmed to his co-worker Mr Balažic, who said that the data on the arbitration agreement or the document of the arbitration agreement was made public by the National Assembly. Therefore, it would be good to discuss whether the problems of Mr Balažic and Minister Žbogar are being followed, or whether it is just a slander or a speech. I am confident, fellow Members, that you will support this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u302	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 to 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Krijata, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, on the question of Mr Friends of Parliament concerning the sale of agricultural land. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors, Happy Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Until the adoption of the cooperative law, foreigners had no opportunity to purchase agricultural land. Even though the Council of State has vetoed, you have reaffirmed the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives in the National Assembly. This allowed a group of five foreigners to establish an agricultural cooperative. Of course, these have the advantage of purchasing agricultural land also at the Agricultural Land Fund. Strange things are happening today that cheap purchases of land are of a kind and cooperatives growing like mushrooms in the rain. The Italians allocate grants or zero interest rates for the rental of loans for the purchase of these land only to the border, somewhere to Postojna. So the 6 millionth population is buying the Rapal border. And what President Zmago Jelinčič said earlier is that the Pahorje government will give Croatia a large part of the Slovenian territory, what remains, you also intend to sell off the cheap. The agricultural land is there from about half a euro and up to three euros per square metre. That's the price. What is now happening in this area intensively, and it does not need to be emphasized in particular? The Minister hasn't replied to me what measures will be taken to prevent this. We understand in the Slovenian National Party that we cannot be European discriminatory, but positive reciprocity should be introduced. As long as the Italians buy land with us, it should be allowed to purchase it in Italy. And some quota, I don't know, a couple of acres should be the upper limit, and then we should stop the sale. The same should apply to other neighbouring countries. And that would be the real protection of national interests. Since this did not happen because we did not get the right answer, because the Minister of Agriculture acknowledged everything that was stated on our part and did not wish to order or intend to carry it out, we demand that you be aware of it and that you support the proposal after an extensive discussion [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To tell once and for all what this Slovenian government is doing. [[...]] What they won't give, they'll sell the cheap. And this is a disgrace to the Slovenian nation. And if they are already hungry Slovenians and Slovenians, they will certainly not forget it. You'll sell barefoot and barefoot. It's a disgrace to the government, and what you write down behind your ear, because I don't believe you'll support this proposal today. You just don't want to hear the truth in the National Assembly. This is why this proposal will not be supported either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. The victory of the noble Elinčič, please in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In spite of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Italy has not withdrawn its protective legislation on the sale of border territories at the former closed Slovenian-Italian border. We still can't buy Slovenians from the interior. But we on our side are willing to sell Lahom whatever seems to them. I think the Slovenian government is making terrible mistakes. I don't think she's making mistakes, that she doesn't care what happens to Slovenian territory. In any event, Ljubljana's policy has always sold marginal landscapes. She sold Koroška, had already sold parts of Primorska, sold Istria, sold in Styria, sold to Hungary, at all ends and places of kneeling, and she cherished some small earnings in her pocket. At least open the debate on this matter and ask the Minister why he does not do what the Government should have done a long time ago to protect Slovenian national territory. I understand the government doesn't care, but, damn it, in three years, I think we're gonna be hunting you around.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, to the question of Mr Puksic's delegation regarding the successful withdrawal of European funds by means of the so-called 5th Call for 2009-2013. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the question of the farmer's situation at the time of the extraordinary fall in agricultural prices. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members, those coming from Slovenian provinces, from various parts of Slovenia, surely know how dramatically the income situation of the Slovenian farmer has deteriorated. How drasticly the prices of crops have been reduced, even by 100% compared to last year. At the same time, consumer prices have not decreased in trade and the price of repromaterial has increased. The Minister's reply was underestimating to the Slovenian farmer, incomprehensible and showed that the Slovenian Government does not count on the Slovenian farmer. That she doesn't care if the farms fail. And farms shut down production because it just doesn't work that way anymore. Many will go to the drum and foreigners will buy Slovenian land even more easily. It is clear from the Minister's response that he supports wholesalers and food processors who extract farmers and consumers. I know that our traders imported last September, October and November apples from refrigerators in Hungary and Poland, which are harmful to health. In our country, however, this reduced the price of apples, first-class table apples. The situation in milk, cattle, wheat is similar. It seems that the Slovenian Government is consciously destroying the Slovenian farmer and its own production. However, we all know that the only firm farmer who can invest in new production can do this. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we have lost all investment in new production and thus again gave priority to foreign producers, because we have lost an important step in the development of agriculture. Once again, Slovenian farmer was also a defender of Slovenia and Slovenian borders always and everywhere and the Slovenian government does nothing. It supports such a state. But the situation is dramatic, farmers beat the bells and rightly are critical and rightly warned. Please support the debate on what is happening and what policy the Government is leading in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Marian Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economy, Dr Matey Lahovnik, to the question of Mr Bezjak's question on economic and social problems. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Procedural? Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, I requested a hearing on the reply of Minister Lahovnik to my question. And that's very clear from the magnetogram as well. I don't know why you forgot that, consciously or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u310	With regard to the information I received that the President, who then chaired the meeting, found that this procedural issue was not required. I can't put that on the agenda. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This time, it's a timely warning. I suggest you cancel the meeting in 10 minutes, see what happened on this issue, and then we proceed when this matter is cleared up. I don't think that's a problem for the president.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u312	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply to the President. The president thus assessed this and also made this public. In return, we will not change the President's conclusion and repeal these conclusions, which he then adopted with the conclusion that the procedural issue was not a difficult one. That is why I will not take this proposal into account. Please, Mr. Contic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday we witnessed a rather unusual situation. Mr Petek asked a question, received an answer, thanked him, asked a supplementary question or asked for an additional answer, received an answer, thanked him, said he was satisfied with the answer and proposed a hearing. So, illogical order of events yesterday. But this, of course, means nothing more than that the processor has found that, given that he is satisfied with the answer, he understands that he does not require a hearing at the next meeting on the Minister's response. It is said that the President's response or conclusion was in this direction. I think that yesterday should have been noted procedurally, and Mr Friday was in the Chamber when the President said this, there was only a struggle with the head, and there was no procedural proposal to change the decision. But I don't know now, but we probably didn't have this practice, but it wouldn't have been a big problem if we found that Mr Petek had requested a hearing, although this could have been slightly inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and would have decided on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u314	I wasn't in the hall at the time, so I don't know the exact course of events. I am adjourning the meeting for ten minutes and will then decide whether I will also allow the procedural question to Mr Mir Petk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u315	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing our adjourned session. Following a review of the Magnetgram, I have found that Mr Petek has requested, has tabled a proposal for a debate, and we will therefore decide on the following proposal for a decision: In line with the proposal of Mr Mir Petk, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik, to the question of Mr Petk, on the resolution of economic and social problems. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Miro Petek Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I'm really sorry that it's very unusual for me to thank the Minister for being satisfied with the answer. I don't know what's so unusual about this room. We're more used to barbaric rhetoric. I was pleased that I had agreed with the Minister on the essential points, in the essential answers that he had given here. First of all, it's about Prevent. This employs more than a thousand people in Koroška, and with regard to the ownership of Prevent, the minister and I agreed fully. It was rude property, reckless greed, which today led to the fact that the company was before the big break. We also agreed in general that there have been major crises and divisions in companies in Slovenia as a result of Robbar Privatisation. And many owners today, with this seized property, simply cannot control it. I was also pleased by the statement made by Minister Lahovnik, who said that the state would not save the tycoons and owners of capital of a suspicious reputation, but rather save jobs. That's why I thanked him for the answer. It is true, however, that the minister did not comment on the announced great achievement of Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who announced for the following year 120,000 unemployed. This response has been avoided and this achievement of Mr Pahor in Koroška is not to be welcomed because unemployment in some municipalities in the region has increased from 50% to 60% during the time of his government. The Minister and I also agreed that the Government must be prepared if Slovenia is to follow another break of any of the regions. From the White landscape, the government has already received a bill on the table following the example of the intervention law on the rescue of Pomurje. Koroška is in a very similar situation. Of course, it was not said yesterday by the minister, by which recipe we will solve all other regions that could be in serious trouble. Therefore, I think that fellow Members could, however, support this debate for the benefit of all of us and the people I represent here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u317	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present for 18 to 32. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the agreement of Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič on the question of railway infrastructure sent by Dr Petr Verlic. An explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Dr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I have asked the Minister of Transport whether they hold the information that Italy is slowly avoiding the fifth corridor from Trieste via Slovenia to Budapest and is part of the sixth priority project, which is also funded by the European Commission and is a key railway project and a long-term priority in connection with Luke Koper with the rest of the continent's work of Europe. In the previous government, this agreement between Italy and Slovenia was agreed after difficult negotiations, with the presence of a European coordinator, i.e. with the presence of the European Commission and the reply of the Minister of Transport yesterday, his response was to hold these statements. These indications are maintained by the Republic of Italy. They are not yet official, but were told by the Secretary of State, the Italian Secretary of State at the Interministerial Meeting in Brdo in Slovenia. So we can expect Italy to withdraw from this slowly, because it is also in the interest that the railway link will be rerouted as soon as possible across Slovenia on the Italian side, via Trbiz and will be linked to a new direction which, of course, the Austrians are rapidly building between Trbiz, Gradec and Vienna, in connection with the new railway tunnel. For a month and a half already the Slovenian government has this information, we learned it here in the National Assembly yesterday. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! I think this question goes beyond dividing into ours, yours, but it interferes with what is crucial to Slovenia. An arbitration agreement can close for us the free passage of the port of Koper and the ships to Koper, and we will now lose the fifth rail corridor. So what do we have left? Let us discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u319	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question of Mr Puksic's delegation regarding the mandatory discount on newly built housing units. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to the question of Mr Grill's question on the public authority of the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The exercise of physical therapy in Slovenia is one of the most important areas, and unfortunately, it is not orderly, because we do not have an institution that has control over the possibility of licensing and, last but not least, taking care of education. In order to do so, it is to the greatest extent a reason for the power to seek out that the Chamber of Physiotherapists, led by Mrs Kresal, submitted misleading and false data to the Commission at the time of granting these public powers and caused so much grey hair to the three ministers. And the Minister, who is now also in the Ministry of Health at this time, decided, despite the fact that the data was very reliable, that the data was misleading, that he had given these powers to the Chamber of Physiotherapists. In the course of these events and also on the basis of numerous complaints, mainly by the Association of Physico-therapists and also by the professional public, an information officer has also been involved, who has found that there have been numerous irregularities and has, on this basis, also filed criminal charges both against ministries and against certain other responsible persons. It is likely that it is possible to look for a reason in this also for decisions of the Chamber of Physiotherapists, led by Mrs Kresal, that she has decided to return these powers now. This is now the reason that this area is unregulated again and no one controls this area, no one can grant licences, no one can care about education. Mr Minister himself agreed that there have been many difficulties in finding solutions to this complex situation, and on the basis of all these events, a call will now have to be made again to find an appropriate and professional, competent institution that can also exercise these public powers. In order to avoid such complications, which we will be able to witness again in Slovenia, it would be very useful, in particular to assist the Ministry of Health and the Minister himself, in order to address all these irregularities, all of these events, on the basis of the exercise of these powers, to hold a general debate here, to present all the documents here and to facilitate the work of the Commission and also the Ministry, in order to grant these public powers to an institution which will be able to carry out this responsibility professionally and also competently. I hope, of course, that you will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u321	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to the question of mags. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar in connection with the analysis carried out and the consensus of the people for the key directions obtained. An explanation of the vote on behalf of Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u322	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A well-respected choir. The Health Act is an essential part of the planned health reform. The draft law was forwarded to the public or the social partners for a December meeting of the Economic and Social Council. From yesterday's response by the Minister of Health to my question, however, it is clear that the proposals of the law have arisen without any analysis of the implications of the proposals, that the proposals are not based on any adopted national strategy and that no public consensus has been obtained on the proposals. That's not good. Access to the necessary health services is important to every citizen of this country. This right, considered by most developed countries to be human rights, has already been well undercut by the poorest and less wealthy in Slovenia in the last 20 years. As capital and lobby have been weakened and healthcare has been privatized and commercialised, this has become chaotic, more expensive, less quality and less accessible to people. Nevertheless, the behaviour of the Health Act allows for the continuation of the privatisation and commercialisation of health care. The health department restores organizationally in the 1930s before the establishment of health homes. As we know, most people don't read marriages. When it's too late, people usually realize that they've lost an important part of health and social security again - and they've been losing it for years. We are now expected to lose public health homes and hospitals that could gradually move into private hands. Therefore, people need to be made aware of the true content of the bill and its implications for human health. This needs to be done now that it is five minutes before twelve to change the basic orientations of the law. In short, we could also list the weaknesses of this marriage. Therefore, a well-respected assembly needs to discuss key guidelines [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u324	Thank you very much. The honourable Member speaks for himself, but I can assure you that the Slovenian Democratic Party, as always a good proposal, will now support. [[A laugh in the hall.]] Thank you so much for smiling. See, we are also assessing that a general debate is necessary on such an important law, which we will also actively participate in if the coalition supports this proposal. I am surprised, however, by the fact that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we have made a request to make a public presentation of opinions where all the professional public could discuss these matters in a good way, and on a proposal from the coalition, you have withdrawn this from the agenda of the Health Committee. That is why I am now surprised by your change or duplicity that you have given up a debate that would be broader, more professional, more qualitative, and now you want this debate to be held only within the Members' framework. This is better than nothing, so we'll be happy to support it. This marriage, as I mentioned, is extremely important. There is a lot of disagreement between the profession, patients and the public, so it is right to discuss these issues in a broad way. As I have said, I will be pleased to support this proposal as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. But I hope the coalition will also give you support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u326	Your Honor! I will vote in favour of addressing the issue of health reform at the meeting of the National Assembly. Even because amendments would be difficult to label as reform. In designing the electoral programmes, we predicted a renewal. We wanted to prevent weaknesses that have a long history and are not just about the previous term. Many believed that the modern paradigm of the public-private partnership would produce good results when the weaknesses were first demonstrated. In health care, we got a new patient called a public-private partnership. I don't mind private doctors myself. Like most others, these are responsible, and people who listen to their neighbor have carried out Hippocrates ’ vows. Problems in the model that creates a conflict of interest, so we have also written down to prevent mixing and overlap between public and private. What were we trying to prevent? A condition in which we do not know who is drinking and who is paying, who is healing and who is counting. In addition to the question of the scope of concessions, a number of other issues have not been exceeded. Licensing and supervision, competences of the Medical Chamber, business contracts and the scope of overtime work, and not least the introduction of innovation by part of management, the property of the management concept from companies to public institutions. Let's not do experiments on patients' shoulders. We're not here because of a variety of lobbying, but because of public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, allow for a debate in the National Assembly. Health is a matter that goes beyond the bloc's polarisation. We'll all meet in the waiting room sooner or later. Let us prevent some from skipping species at the expense of those who do not have health and not money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Well, in the latest version of the law that's in the debate, we can call it, I've noticed that it's going beyond what we agreed on in the coalition agreement. And that, on some fundamental grounds, the solution does not follow an agreement. That is why we need to talk about this before marriage is introduced, and we can find solutions or point out what needs to be changed so that we can support the marriage. Thus, I think that this debate cannot harm, the law must carry in itself the guarantee of public interest and the ability of people to exercise their rights in the field of this activity, irrespective of their material situation and their ability to pay. It is not long before we have been able to read in the media that it is the most dangerous thing to put health care on the market. Increasing the volume of private work in public health means that we are not saying that this instant solutions somehow allow the sale of property, built by self-sustainment in the area of the construction of health homes, hospitals and so on, and the total privatisation of basic health care and health homes. I think that's bad. It would be better if we turned the matter around - in order for those health homes that have lost the opportunity to fully cover the scope of the work that was once provided there, to return this possibility by taking some concessions and re-establishing a healthcare home to carry out their mission in full. In doing so, I refer to the dissipation method of work in [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Disspensers, I mean prevention and so on. [[...]] I'm going to break this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u329	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on your behalf, Jake Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I'm going to support the debate requested by my colleague Bizjak Mlakar. For the last time on the relevant committee, I was surprised that a proposal for a public presentation, a public hearing of the Health Action Act, was rejected because I believe and join the opinion that there would be a wider space and a wider range of participants, i.e. many people from individual institutions, from professional institutions to discuss health care issues and the organisation of health care in the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, if those debates are not, then once, God knows when, although I am very skeptical about the results of these public presentations in the National Assembly, given that, as a rule, the government or the appropriate ministry does not take fully into account the conclusions of the presentation or individual debaters - not only political, especially professional ones - I will support the debate in the National Assembly, because I think it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u331	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 34. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to the 25th A.P. OF THE DAY'S LINE... Procedurally. Please, Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u332	Thank you very much. I propose that the National Assembly decide, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, to amend the order of the agenda for the consideration of the agenda items. I propose to make item 2 of the agenda, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, instead of Friday 18. on Wednesday 16th. 12. At the same time, I propose that paragraphs 22 and 23 be moved to Friday on Wednesday, because we are moving this treatment to Wednesday. This is in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u333	Thank you. These proposals are taken into account in the context of one amendment and are in accordance with paragraph 65, paragraph 1. This proposal will be adopted if one third of the Members present do not object. We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the procedural proposal of Bojan Kontic. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 47, for 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. And so the National Assembly will change the order of the points. We are therefore moving on to the 25th A.D. - TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE RELATIONSHIPS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH SLOVENIA EXTERNAL LIMITS, reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal for a law is at the ninth session of 2. Ten. 2009 dealt with the Home Affairs Committee for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the bill was not adopted and the second consideration of the draft law was concluded at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Only Bevk has the word on behalf of the SD Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u334	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Although the proposal for the amendment introduces only minor changes in the scope of the mandate of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians around the world. It shall specify the national authorities responsible for the implementation of the repatriation, introducing corrections to the designation of beneficiaries for the payment of allowances to those who have participated in the teaching of the Slovenian language. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u335	Please, peace in the hall and listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u336	and underlines the importance of Article 21 of the bill relating to the entry of Slovenians into public higher education institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] At the presentation of the law, the competent minister, Prof. Dr. Boštjan Žekš, stressed that there were minor changes to the existing law. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats supports the law. At the meeting of the interested working body, which is on the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide, the law was also unanimously adopted. It became complicated at a meeting of the home working body, which is on the Committee on Internal Policy when the articles of the law were not adopted. At the time, the result was 6 for the amendment of the law and 6 for the amendment of the law. Why this has occurred, even though in the working body the coalition has a majority, which is the proposer of this law. The current absence of some Members has occurred, and the president of the working body has used this to decide. For because of the work, as it is said, where still the emperor goes on foot, there were some members of the coalition missing. Thus, the Chairman of the Home Committee found that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders on the home working body had been completed. This issue was then addressed, not only by this law, but also by some others, by the Rules of Procedure Commission, which adopted the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and thus, in the event that a law has been adopted in such a way that there are no articles, it also allows for the presentation of groups of Members in relation to such a law. Let me repeat the Social Democrats' Group, the law or amendment of the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians beyond its borders, when the Government brings it back to the National Assembly, will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Friday has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u338	Thank you very much. With a procedural proposal for a five-minute break, we could solve everything. In the SDS Group, we are disappointed that the coalition is hampered by the effective work of the Office for Slovenians in substitution and in the world run by their Minister in this mandate due to the lack of serious approach to amendments and additions to the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside the borders. This law has ended its journey on the work of the mother. We will certainly get a new bill in the parliamentary procedure, with the same content, and it is likely to be adopted in the end. It is therefore irresponsible that we will once again deal with the same legal content in the National Assembly, and there will also be ministers and representatives of the office sitting in addition to Members and Members of Parliament's professional staff who can deal with other matters at that time. It should also be added that the operation of the Office in certain areas is less effective due to the non-admission of the amendment. The negative effects are mainly in the field of change and the addition of funding by the Office. As we know, an invitation to tender has recently been issued and applicants have to report their regular activity or projects by 23 December of this year. According to the existing situation and needs, the new law extended this circle of beneficiaries. Other persons besides civil society organisations would have the right to apply for an invitation to tender, but there is no legal basis for extending the circle of applicants. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the Coalition was able to achieve so much voting power that it rejected the amendment of the SDS Group, which, in its proposal for a law, restores the existing dictatorship which the proposed amendment has brought down. The proposer decided to delete Slovenian Catholic missions and missions of other religious communities in the amendment to the 78th Article Act, which deals with who submits proposals for the eligibility of individuals for repatriation. In the SDS Group, we tried to correct this intended deletion with the amendment, but the amendment was not accepted. Minister Žekš himself said in the debate that Slovenia does not have other missions around the world than the Roman Catholic missions, which perform exceptional work for the existence and development of Slovenian language, culture and national identity. The legal dictatorship of the Slovenian Roman Catholic mission is now being tried to hide in the dictatorship of unprofitable individuals of private law or their legal persons abroad. The latter, however, makes it good that this law, thanks to the coalition, has already fallen at the treatment of the parent’s working body. In these Christmas days, the government and coalition will also have sufficient time to think thoroughly about the importance of Slovenian Roman Catholic missions among Slovenians around the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u339	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to this bill, I must first say that we are disappointed in the debate held on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Instead of a debate on content and rather than well-intentioned proposals, comments were made in a perfectly ideological direction, which we do not think is appropriate in this law. We believe that the bill, however, has brought about some positive changes and the necessary upgrade of the existing law. It was not a major change, and as Minister Žekš said at the meeting, in the near future it would really be necessary to prepare systematic changes and amendments to the law, which will be based on a broader public debate between Slovenians in Slovenia, in place and around the world. After all, we have no choice, as the procedure for this amendment of the law on the Committee has been completed. Given that there are a number of problems and outstanding issues in this area, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I propose to the competent minister that the co-workers immediately undertake the preparation of systemic changes and the addition of the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians beyond its borders, and of course we expect the amendment to be put into the legislative procedure as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u341	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u342	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Today, we have been informed several times that the articles of the law were not adopted on the working body and were not rejected at the same time. That is why we are now familiar with the conclusion that the legislative process is complete. Given that the bill does not have any articles to be adopted, we also have no other choice in our group of Members than to take note of this conclusion. Otherwise, in our Group of Members, we believe that the proposal for a law was not bad and that we would support it. We therefore expect the Government to prepare and table a new proposal, as the amendment proposal has brought only the necessary and simple corrections that are currently necessary. For a more thorough overhaul of the law in force, however, it may be wise to wait a little longer, since the law has only been valid for three years and all the weaknesses of the law have not yet been revealed. When preparing radical changes, consideration should be given to the formation of a working group, including from Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, which would draw up concrete amendments and, of course, also cooperate with the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u343	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Friend will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders are catastrophic. This law, of course, had been adopted into procedure, would have made a number of concessions and also helped the Slovenians living outside at least as much as we could have seen, which, in my opinion, already in the infringements that deserve to be dealt with on which European Council or also by European Members should be condemned for eccentric human rights violations at least in the European Parliament. If, of course, the main solutions to the bill were adopted, the draft law would have a framework mandate in two government consultative bodies to the Council for Slovenians in place and to the Council for Slovenians in the world. If this law were adopted, we would also take over the financing of the implementation of Slovenian language education. We know that this is not happening now, that many neighbouring countries do not respect signed agreements and that what is agreed with the agreement and the law on minorities is not paid. We have witnessed Mr Pahor negotiating with Mr Berlusconi whether he will give that poor million euros for the Slovenians living in Italy. And he left, of course, Berlusconi in Rome with a fig in his pocket. We have recently been with the Commission for Foreigners and Slovenians around the world in a joint meeting with the Hungarian delegation of parliamentarians on the Hungarian side, and we have seen the disastrous situation of the Slovenians living in Hungary. The only primary school that is supposed to be Slovenian is not Slovenian. I would ask, President, if you could calm these Members. At least so much respect if you can listen. The only Slovenian school, which is not Slovenian, is over 50 years old and is equipped with worn-out, worn-out equipment from Slovenian schools. She's only one teacher who can speak Slovenian at this school. Our minority receives 600,000 euros in Hungary, while for the Hungarian minority in Slovenia we give 20 million euros from the budget. In Slovenia, the Hungarian minority has 34 journalists working on RTV Ljubljana on the regional programme for the Hungarian minority, have a newspaper, have 350 printed books per year, have an expert who advises them in the use of Hungarian language, and have a bilingually regulated area. In Hungary, Slovenian teachers live without pay, their administrative and technical status or working conditions are nothing and we can face the fact that the Slovenian word is rare. The answer why the 17-year-old signed agreement signed by the Slovenian Government on the Hungarian initiative is not respected - in response we have received that the Roma issue in Hungary is too large and the Hungarian government cannot provide all the necessary conditions for the work of the Slovenians. That's how they admitted it. Speaking of Austria, Article 7 of the State Treaty is not respected. In Italy, a law that is supposed to protect a minority is only written on paper. By opening the issue and amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians beyond its borders, we reject the possibility and turn our backs back again to the Slovenians and we hope that we can get a systematic change when the minister decides that the time is right and when the time is right. So the end of the recession etc., etc., will bring about the possibility that the government will remember Slovenia. When our prime minister went to Budapest, he didn't even meet Slovenians! He shook hands with a Hungarian colleague, and they were full of nice words. The condition we've seen is sad. Some of us were disappointed in what we saw. The ambassador doesn't do anything but walk around with her husband. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u345	Mr. Friend, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u346	and enjoys diplomatic receptions. [[...]] It's a shame about Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u347	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, I declare that, by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups, the National Assembly has concluded that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 25.B POINT OF THE DAY - This is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income, the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The bill is being proposed at the 11th session of the 28th. Ten. 2009 dealt with the Home Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. Therefore, in accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I am moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u348	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. The package of measures put into the legislative process by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group this year was the only strategy for bridging, mitigating and getting out of the crisis that was tabled in the National Assembly. The package of measures proposed by the Government, however, was those that released or freed up the fall or collapse of economic growth, and between the euro countries Slovenia experienced the greatest decline in economic growth. Unfortunately for this proposal, this package of measures, which was put into the legislative procedure on 28 April, was not supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Everything else that the Government has invested, including budget rebalancies and budgets, has been conceived on unrealistic and wrong macroeconomic assumptions, and therefore all of the measures proposed by the Government have also not been able to capture or act. One of the measures that we have repeatedly proposed for exit or economic assistance is the amendment of the Income Law. For the first time, this novelty was already proposed on 19 December last year, and in this novelty we proposed an increase in the threshold for the calculation of standardised expenditure for S.p. is from 40 000 to 100 000 euros, including for S.p., which were accompanied by another employee. Unfortunately, the Government did not support this proposal and the coalition also voted against it in the National Assembly. Then we also repeated this final proposal in the framework of, as I mentioned earlier, anti-crisis measures, and in addition to this existing solution, which was rejected, we have added a complement to this law, where we have proposed to increase the facilitation of research and development. Unfortunately, this bill was not supported by the vote either; the government was against it, the coalition was also against it. We re tabled the law in August, and we have added, in addition to increasing the basis for calculating the standard costs and incentives for research and development, an increase in the rate for calculating the standard expenditure, from 25 to 40%. Interestingly, though, this law was supported by a vote in the National Assembly. The plenary session, the general debate and the vote then also allowed us to put this law into the process of working as a parent, at which the coalition undermined the decision of the National Assembly. And today we have a solution and a law with a solution that is different from that adopted at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Such solutions, such decisions are possible - unfortunately - only in this coalition. It has never happened before that the National Assembly of the Plenary, in the general debate, would vote by the coalition's votes, and then the same coalition would be torn down by the same coalition in the course of the process, when it should only be finalized. Regrettably, the Government did not support the bill either, it said, nor did it listen to all the warnings, all the comments, all the wishes of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because this law is actually written at their request. Since the law cannot proceed in further proceedings, so-called debirocratisation will not be carried out, and several thousand taxpayers cannot hope for simplification in their operations. In this way, when the government sleeps when nothing is proposed or is sunned under the lights, the coalition in the National Assembly consistently rejects all positive proposals. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenian democratic parties, as well as other opposition parliamentary groups, will not be able to expect adequate, time-consuming and economic measures for a long time. [[...]] In fact, we regret that this proposal has not been given the working body the opportunity to complete it and to allow several thousand small entrepreneurs to operate better, more appropriately in these difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u349	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[You won't.]] Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u350	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present DeSUS's position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. With regard to the solutions to the proposed novelty, the DeSUS Group has already stated its position in the context of the general debate on this proposal, namely that these solutions relating to the determination of the tax base of the activity's income and to the method of simplifying the method of determining the tax base or the method of flat-rate taxation for the use of normative costs, we do not support DeSUS. Although the bill was adopted by 34 votes to 28 at the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, the legislative procedure continued at the meeting of the home working body. Decisions have been taken here, which are not exactly the practice, a standing in the context of the adoption of legislative acts, namely, none of the proposed articles has been adopted, so that the solutions originally proposed now result only in the title of the proposal, without a single article. This means that it is a derogation from the business rules governing the legislative procedure, since there is no longer a proposal for a law in the substantive sense. Members of the DeSUS agree with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Business Commission. In such cases, we believe that it is perfectly correct and right to find that the proposed law is inappropriate and that the legislative procedure for this act is thus terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The truth is that this is one of many acts, proposals for laws offered by the opposition to solve problems. Otherwise, it is no longer possible to explain why you reject all these things, so one day you have to get along at family level. Family's a state. If you don't work, you don't have the money, and you can get it by taking a loan, two or three, if you even get it. But if you get it, you can't pay it off, you're running out of money to pay it off. The second option is to sell, if you happen to have a weekend and a garage and a car and then you have nothing. The only truth that's possible is that you start working to find work anywhere, whatever, you live modestly to start growing back. It's the same with our country. In this year and for two months, we know exactly that this country has so many loans, sadly, that you should not even take them anymore. Maybe there's room to sell state property, but it's gonna run out once. The country can only draw on certain types of revenue, clearly, most of the revenue from the income tax. The income tax will increase if income in this country grows. Income in this country will grow if people work. And people will get a job and start a renewed economic rise alone and just -- listen to some, however, doctors of science from the economy, because they are not free doctors of science -- just and only with fiscal policy. There's no other solution at this point. With tax policy. It is only necessary to swallow and say OK, this moment will not flow as much money as we expect. Not to say now that the budget is damaged if these and similar laws are adopted, while we are not aware that this budget will be damaged precisely because such and many similar laws have not been passed, which would attract investors with a lower tax rate, allow workers to have better wages, to be cheaper products to be sold out or at home, and to come in money and be richer, and to work more and there would be more money, more income to come into this cash market. These laws propose this, this and many others, which we have discussed and for which the Slovenian National Party has always voted in favour. No, you don't want to hear that the only thing we're going to do is create income, and the only thing with income tax is going to start to lose the budget on the minus! And I don't know how you all hope in the National Assembly, and I believe you have a life experience, that you don't know that it's more important that you don't damage the state treasury because it's already so damaged. Please! She will be harmed even more precisely because of this and such laws that you did not want to adopt. Nice or ugly, it will be visible this year at the new year, the second year even more, remember 2011 when we will really have to sell the last garage and the last cars. Remember that! And in 2012, we might drag these laws out and say, "You were right." We're against a negative conclusion. Against! We should start with one of those laws - lose something and gain a lot. Unfortunately, you obviously don't want that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u353	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I have to say to the public that there is no decision at this point, because we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, but because the law does not have articles it is an empty law, a law without content. However, the debate on the content of the law is not possible because there is no content either, so there will be no voting, because there will be no law without articles. Therefore, in the light of these facts in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we find that the legislative procedure in this law is terminated. Nevertheless, in order to clarify the situation, some things need to be said, as we note that the new macroeconomic forecasts certainly make the public financial picture worse for 2009. Income is substantially reduced, given the first budget rebalancing, by some €863 million, most of which from VAT by €400 million, from income of an additional €62 million and corporate income tax by €310 million. However, due to a different, poorer employment and wages movement, there are fewer contributions to pension and health allowance, which means an additional transfer from the state budget to the ZPIZ and a higher deficit in health bills. All of these are the consequences of a situation, on the one hand of the economic crisis, and on the other, of the poor and reckless measures that we have taken in the mandate earlier. The proposal also entails a reduction in public financial revenues, as there would be a reduction in the tax base for the debtors who, under the current regime, establish the tax base by taking into account the so-called standard costs. In addition, subject to the changed conditions for entry into the system of standardised expenditure and taking into account that the debtors behave rationally with a higher volume of business, it is therefore up to the taxpayers to enter the system under new conditions to pay less tax in this way. During the economic crisis, the decision-making and adoption of individual measures should pay particular attention to the coherence of all measures taken in the context of the fight against the crisis, the effectiveness of the individual measure and, above all, the emphasis on public financial sustainability. By now, the government has adopted a series of measures to address the economic crisis. It will certainly explore and assess, in this context, the possibility of adopting certain measures in the context of the changes in the taxation of the income of natural persons it is preparing in this year's field. In terms of purpose itself, taking into account the characteristics of the current system or the flat-rate determination of the tax base, the effectiveness of the proposed solutions is certainly questionable and, in particular, the relevance of the proposed solutions; as this is only administrative simplification in determining the conditions for entry into the system of standardised expenditure and the level of standardised expenditure, there is a particular need for moderation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u355	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u356	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! It is difficult to give the position of a non-member group on a law that is without articles, without content and, in fact, we do not know what to discuss and say. That's the procedure. However, we can say a few words about the law of similar content or the same content that has already been rejected several times in the National Assembly, mainly because it did not constitute a consistent form or consistent policy to address this crisis. It only meant a partial solution, but it certainly was not an integral part of the measures proposed by this government, which is working in a planned way to bring this economy and this country successfully out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u357	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, I find that, on the basis of the presentation, the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 25.c point of the agenda - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on the protection allowance. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jakob Preseknik for consideration by the National Assembly. At its 11th meeting, on 26 November 2009, the draft law was addressed by the Home Committee for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Following a discussion on the articles of the bill, the Committee did not adopt any of the articles and the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was concluded. In line with the view of the Business Commission, I am now giving representatives of the groups of Members the opportunity to present their views. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u358	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you have already said, Mr Vice-President, this law, unfortunately, does not have any articles anymore, but it does not have because you literally destroyed them by voting on the committee, and therefore the business commission also had to meet to clarify the problem. However, the package of measures in the area of social problems must also include the proposed amendments to the law on the protection allowance. Unfortunately, in a strange way, the proposal was not supported by the committee. In this Act on the Protection Supplement, Article 4 is supplemented by a new third paragraph in order to allow for the receiving of a protective allowance also to farmers who have been protected for a greater scope of rights, and in particular to those insured under the previous Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers of 1979 whose pensions amount to EUR 187 and EUR 227.60. The aim of the law is therefore to equalize the rights of the users of the lowest pension farmers who have worked their entire lives on farms and paid insurance up to the protection allowance - so the aim of the equality with the other recipients is in line with the applicable system in our country, which, due to the built-in principles of solidarity and reciprocity, provides the lowest pension. We have foreseen a 60 % dose of additives as foreseen for those who have at least 15 years of working age, thus taking into account that they have paid smaller contributions. However, we cannot agree with the Government's view at work when it claims that the recognition of a protective allowance would also give rise to discrimination against other insured farmers protected under the previous law and for a narrower scope of rights. For in us the pension system is not purely insurance for various reasons, it is not entirely dependent on the contributions paid, our system is based to the greatest extent on solidarity. Finally, I must point out that for a while there have been many insurers, or many pensioners, who have been explaining their problem in this regard. The last letter was sent to me by a disappointed lady from the area of Šmarje near Jelšah, who paid farm insurance for 28 years and received the 127 euros a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to present the position of the Slovenian National Party and tell you how social this government is. The aim of the law, if all articles were to be deleted, was to equalize the rights of the beneficiaries of farm pensions for all equally. The main purpose of the law was to ensure a better material and social situation for farmers. Why is this urgent? Because the analysis of the Retired Union showed that 489 pensioners, farmers, receive a lower pension than EUR 100. 13,180 have a lower pension than 200 euros and 24,662 have a lower pension than 300 euros. The poverty threshold, calculated according to the method recognised only by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is EUR 400. I don't know how to spend a month with 500 Euros. What did we do when we deleted all the articles? Ignorantly we rejected a good proposal from the Slovenian People's Party. We cannot claim that the Constitution provides for a legal provision that Slovenia is a social state, indeed, rather than a social state. Now, where would you get this money that the gentlemen of the government say is gone? Ladies and gentlemen, we have not collected €180 million in pension and health insurance because state companies have also allowed themselves not to pay contributions. For EUR 50 million, we have made excuses, so we have forgiven businesses so that they do not have to pay this contribution. If we look at civil servants or public administration, they're in an unequal position with other active employees. I say this because everyone contributes to this cash register, of course, those public servants are slightly less because they eat up the added value of those who work in direct production. However, public servants cannot be technological surpluses because this is not provided for by the Labour Relations Act, which adds to the burden of the lack of resources the Government is voicing to be unable to provide them with such an important objective that it should pursue, and this is to equalise the rights of users to all beneficiaries of a farmer's pension. If I can sum it up. On the one hand, we have privileged judges, privileged unemployed leniency, privileged deleted, soon to become millionaires tomorrow, and privileged also marginal groups that receive more than they need. Do you still remember that Romanian woman's ticket that showed how much she received? Euro1,850. Strojan and she also claim that this is a very regular trait and that it is a month enough for her. Why? So why can't we give these farmers, who have worked hard on Slovenian land, at least in the autumn of their lives? Was it really necessary for you to delete all laws, in such a piglike, ignorant way, to reject this right, this request of those who today do not even have to consider themselves a normal basket of living expenses. And if we can't find the money in recovery, in these 180 million missing funds that you don't want to recover, then I could give you advice that you can turn to Europe, because Europe is spending the most budget for development and subsidies in agriculture. There we would listen to you, and perhaps today we would have made this decision with fewer diapers in a glass. With the mockery of course, the law has no articles. Shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The procedure for the law in question has been completed, as there is no content in this law. For the law is without articles, so it has been decided on committees and that is why we cannot decide on this law today. And it is true that the Social Democrats rejected the articles of this law because the law for a particular group of people could be liked, but it is not acceptable in terms of fairness and, in particular, solidarity with those farmers who voluntarily decided to provide for the full range of rights and pay higher contributions, as well as with other non-farmers who were insured for a narrower range of rights. The proposal for a law of these groups does not include. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are very sensitive to the social situation of individual groups, and therefore, every decision in this regard is well considered. I wish that all the inhabitants of our country would live in prosperity. Unfortunately, this is a little more difficult at the moment. We are limited by the resources in the budget that we create and then we can share them. When we talk about pensions in the face of urgent solidarity, we cannot leave justice behind and neglect the amount of the individual's contributions paid. We're talking about all groups of people. In rural insurance companies, solidarity already prevails, which is linked to the special importance that their work has for our society. However, further interference with the ratio of pension benefits cannot be partially resolved because it can undermine the already fragile balance between solidarity and justice. And that is why we are not and cannot support the proposed solutions in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Štefan Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u364	Good-bye to all of you. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support or support the proposal to supplement the law on the protection supplement tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Robert Hrovat, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, introduced in this mandate a law amending the law on pension and disability insurance, where the situation is to be equalised to all pensioners in agriculture, while also improving the material situation of low-retirement pensioners. The government opposed this because the proposed amendment would interfere with the system of pension and disability insurance. At the time, however, voices also came from the coalition that farmers' pensions were really low and did not allow for decent survival and that they needed to find another form to improve their material situation. The Slovenian People's Party has now proposed that farmers be granted at least a protective allowance. In January 2009 only 2302 beneficiaries with a rural pension of €227 were eligible. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is farmers who have worked their entire lives on farms, farmed land and provided cheap food for the working population. They helped to preserve the natural environment and maintained the cultural landscape. In fact, farmers were discriminated against during the postwar period, and they had no chance of pension insurance. In 1972, the Law on Age Insurance of Farmers brought at least a little relief. It was a solidarity measure, but, of course, the farmer's pension was more of a charity. Gradually, farmers' pension insurance improved over the coming years. They also started paying the pension allowance, and the insurance system only began to be equal in 1984 and was equivalent to the labour force in 1990. It is said that there is a small group of farmers, the good 2,000, who have endured all the postwar problems of building the country and all the neglect of the agricultural state and are now living in a miserable social situation. We would do well to dedicate a decent life to this group of people for at least the last few days of life that they no longer have before them. Let us show solidarity and give them at least a protective supplement that will make any improvement in the old days. I know that some object to being able to apply for social assistance if necessary. Most of them are too proud or embarrassed to live in poverty. It is right to systematically address the problem of rural pensioners with a protective supplement that will improve their last days of life. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group agreed with the Slovenian People's Party's proposal with the first-signed Jakob Preseknik. Unfortunately, the law on the committee did not receive the support of the coalition. I hope there will be another opportunity for the law to improve the material situation of farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u365	Thank you very much. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. For this reason, in accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, I note that the National Assembly has found that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection Supplement has been completed in a reduced procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 26th A DECEMBER OF THE DAY, at the hearing of the two requests of the groups of Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to deal with these two matters in a simplified manner. First of all, it is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law regulating the status of citizens of other successor countries, former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Grims will provide an introductory explanation of the proposed group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u366	Your Honor! The bill in question touches on one of the most sensitive subjects facing the National Assembly. On the one hand, it touches the fate of concrete people, i.e. human destiny, and on the other hand it touches the fundamental values of Slovenian independence, i.e. the very foundations of Slovenian statehood. This is certainly the reason for this law to be dealt with on a regular basis so that it is not rushed. It is precisely because it is an extremely sensitive area that it is particularly problematic to take a quick, sometimes non-professional approach to solving this problem in the last year or, as some have concluded, to deal with it. Let me just quote a few numbers, specific numbers, and we all master this mathematics well, which has been proclaimed by this Ministry of the Interior in the last few months. First, it declared that the number eighteen thousand three hundred and four for the so-called deleted would be better transferred, because, in fact, it was wrong and that the real number was more than twenty-five thousand five hundred so-called deleted. Then they informed us that they had issued directly as a follow-up to the Constitutional Court's decision of approximately seven thousand and five hundred decisions and then accompanied this bill, which we are talking about today, by explaining that some of the remaining one hundred people might be affected. Now, if you'll excuse us to do one mathematical operation: twenty-five thousand five hundred minus seven thousand five hundred is eighteen thousand, ladies and gentlemen, not a few hundred. That's whether it's incompetence or lapsus or something worse. However, it is certainly with such a sensitive topic, which, once again, touches on concrete human destiny and the fundamental values of Slovenian independence certainly cannot be rushed and pursued in such a way. In the SDS, we always guarantee the principle that in a particular procedure, it is determined whether an individual has actually been wronged and if the injustice has been done, it should be corrected. However, those who have calculated with Slovenian independence by no means, or even by attacking Slovenia with the weapons of ladies and gentlemen, are in fact talking about it, and they are among them, and of course they must not benefit from it. This would be contrary to the principles of law, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the principles of natural law, which modern legal science sees as the basis of the entire legal system and global regulation. In addition, we note in the SDS that this is in sharp contradiction with the resolution on regulatory action adopted by the National Assembly a month ago, as this sets out the principle of transparency as one of its foundations, which I quote: 'adopt the rules by regular legislative procedures that enable quality awareness and the responses and impacts of the interested public'. This is a literal quote from the resolution voted in the National Assembly proposed by the same government and confirmed by the same coalition that is now behind this law. In fact, our rules of procedure allow for swift procedures and the jurisprudence of the National Assembly was unfortunately a few mandates back, too, that only to increase the profits of casinos was a law adopted by a fast procedure. In this case, there is a legal reference to the abuse of the procedure. In order to avoid abuse of the procedure in order to show an appropriate attitude towards people, to concrete fates and to the values of Slovenian independence, we propose in the SDS that a decision be taken on the decision of the college by examining this law on a regular basis. Only in this way will it be possible to satisfy all the principles enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution and only in this way will it be satisfied with the democratic process and also with the business regulations and the resolution on normative activities which both bind the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u367	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and without explanation of vote. Mr. Tanko. What do you want, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u368	I propose a 10-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u369	I'm taking ten minutes off. At 9:21 p.m., proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u370	We're moving on to the session. Mr. Tanko, would you like a word? Mr Tanko does not want a word. We're moving to the vote. We will vote on the proposal for the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 735-V, is being considered following a reduced procedure. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] The law will be dealt with on short notice. We're moving on to a different decision. The Group of the same 24 Members and Members has requested that the decision of the College of the National Assembly be reconsidered to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Police Act following a reduced procedure. Dr. Gorenak will have an additional explanation on behalf of the applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u371	Thank you very much. So we are talking about this, or we are proposing that this law be treated on a regular basis and not on a reduced basis. In order to make it easier for me to understand, at least those who will listen to me, let me go back a little bit to history and on this basis tell why it is necessary to deal with this law on a regular basis. Slovenia was the only and last country within the so-called socialist bloc to receive a modern new police law by 1998. By 1998, the police had acted under the old law or been simplified, the police, that was the Ministry of the Interior. At the head of the Ministry of the Interior, three or four policies were exchanged at that time. Also at that time, the police used covert investigative measures imposed by ministers, i.e. politicians, following the legislation at the time. It was not until 1998 that this situation changed and the police began to act as an organ in the composition. And it has been since then that the policy has in some way limited access to police work, in particular to the most important and secret forms of police work, such as the use of covert investigative measures. To illustrate, in 2000, I was the Secretary of State and on the day of Mr Schuštar's arrest, the former Secretary of State, in which we know that these methods have been used, I did not know about this. The right thing is, I didn't know. We sat together on the government. I was a politician. This belongs to the police. Let's move on to today's law. What's the bill proposed by the coalition or the minister? Firstly, the National Investigation Office, which will investigate the most serious crimes in the field of economic, financial, organised crime, corruption and so on. Very non-problem, we even welcome the creation of such an office. In the National Investigation Office, experienced criminals, tax officials, customs officers, as well as other experts such as money laundering experts and so on will be employed. Okay, it's not a problem. We welcome. The National Investigation Office, and here the problems of this law begin, the National Investigation Office will be an integral part of the criminal police, but the criminal police will provide it with exclusively and only material technical support. However, this office, which will be an integral part of the criminal police, will not be responsible to the director of the criminal police. You won't believe it. He won't even be responsible to the police director. He will be responsible to the Minister of the Interior. So we're taking some by-pass line that we want to investigate these crimes directly under the supervision of the Minister of the Interior. The second absurdity in this area is simply this, and this is a little shorter, so that someone can be named the director of this office again after a personal competitive procedure that is once again avoided by no other procedure. You won't believe it, his superior, and he's the director of the crime police, and he's named after the usual procedure. So he is subordinate to the special procedure provided for by this law. We don't see any reason for that. Come in. What is even more problematic and absurd is that the Director of the National Investigation Office will collect what this Office will investigate alone and the only one in this country. This means that no one in this country, or the Director General of Police or the Director of the Criminal Police, can order and assign him a mandate. No, no, no. He himself arbitrarily decides on the proposal of the law on what he will deal with. Let's just ask him if he's gonna investigate Rupl's broom, but he's gonna forget about the clean shovels. He'll decide not to control it himself. And the last problem we see in this law is that there will be so-called senior crime inspectors. They will exercise police powers. These police powers are listed in the law, from legitimacy, to detention, detention and so on. But this will be done by external experts who do not have any police knowledge and will not need to acquire these skills. So they'll work harder than they can politically. I ask you very much to consider our proposal, to follow our proposal and to vote in such a way that we will consider this law with considerable consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-15-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak, on the basis of Rule 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a decision: The draft law on police supplements, EPA 749-V, is being examined in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 20. The National Assembly will deal with the law in a reduced manner. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you so much and good night.
