ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Janja Klasinc, Zvone Černač, Janez Janša and Victory Jelinčič Trimenite. I invited the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to the 1st item of the agenda, Mr Anton Gasper Frantar, President of the State Election Commission, and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 29th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 2 July 2009. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or extend it. That is why we are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 8th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 29. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the National Assembly will consider: a. Confirmation of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. b. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, c. Notice from the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj concerning the charges brought against the Member of the National Assembly; and No. of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for national representative to Eurojust. So I say this in Latin, not in English Eurojust. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the examination of the confirmation of the election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Under this item, the National Assembly will consider the draft decisions submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the Mandate-Electorial Commission? He doesn't want to. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: "Bringing in mind the report of the National Election Commission on the partial outcome of the vote and the partial outcome of the election of Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, held on 7 June 2009, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 48/9 The National Assembly confirms the election of the following Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament: Tanja Pajon, Jelka Kacina, Aloyza Peterle, Zoran Thaler, Ivo Wigle and Dr Milan Zver." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I will take the decision to inform the President of the European Parliament. Another time. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: "Having regard to the report of the State Election Commission of 8. Seven. 2009 on the partial outcome of the subsequent elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, i.e. the conclusion of the outcome of the elections, the National Assembly confirms the election of the Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament of Dr Romane Jordan Cizelj." We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I will take the decision to inform the President of the European Parliament. In accordance with such a decision of the National Assembly, i.e. in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following conclusion: "As from the date of the confirmation of the mandate of the Member of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament, the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly shall expire. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Since there will be no presentation, we are going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[1 versus.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice from the State Prosecutor on Ptuj concerning the indictment brought against the Member of the National Assembly. The announcement was forwarded to the National Assembly by the State Prosecutor's Office in Ptuj. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The mandate-holder commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Attorney's Office to Ptuj, No. KT1-1353/08/NB-DM, of 8. 6. 2009 concerning the indictment brought against the Member of the National Assembly, William Trofenik, for two offences of offensive accusation after the second, in relation to the first paragraph of Article 106 of the Criminal Code of KZ1, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly, William Trofenik, and allows the conduct of criminal proceedings." On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly on a proposal for a decision, the Council shall decide without debate. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 64, for 4. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am moving on to the debate on the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a candidate for a national representative to Eurojust. On the basis of Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts to the National Assembly, Dr Danilo Türk proposed that one of the proposed candidates, either Mrs Malči Gabrielčič or Mr Vojko Vidovic, be elected as a candidate for national representative to Eurojust. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want to explain the proposal? Please. Mr. Erik Kerševan, Counsellor of the President of the Republic for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you the proposal to elect one of the two candidates for the seat of the national representative of the Republic of Slovenia in Eurojust. On the basis of the procedure in which both candidates applied, the President of the Republic took advantage of the legal possibility of submitting them both for consideration to the National Assembly, which, on the basis of his careful assessment, would be able to choose, in his opinion, the most appropriate of both to represent the Republic of Slovenia. However, it would point to some emphasis on this procedure. The President of the Republic is obliged by law to obtain the opinion of the Government and the Council of Justice in the process of proposing candidates in order to present his proposal. And in a particular case, that procedure took too long. The President of the Republic obtained the tender documentation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u3	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u4	The President of the Republic obtained the tender documents on 31 March, on 15 April he invited both the Council of Justice and the Government to submit their opinions, which they were obliged to deliver under law. The Council of Justice delivered its opinion in May because, therefore, the President of the Republic did not receive the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia until June, there was actually a very unusual gesture in the modern country that the Office of the President of the Republic had to call again on the Government to respond to the request of the President of the Republic for opinions, because this is, of course, a legal condition for the procedure to continue. The Government has only adopted its opinion 1. 7, i.e. on 1 July, and the President of the Republic on the same day as this formal legal condition was fulfilled, he submitted his proposal for election to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in front of you. There is also a slightly more complex problem. For a law containing such a procedure can, of course, prevent the President of the Republic from submitting a proposal if there is no timely involvement of other state authorities. Therefore, on an appropriate occasion, it will also indicate that consideration is needed whether such procedures show some simplification. And second, what would suggest here is that the law itself contains general solutions that may not always be the most appropriate or adapted to a particular procedure. Thus, for example, in the present case, it has been shown that it would be good to consult on the State Prosecutor's Office's applications, as well, the State Prosecutor's Council, but the law provides for only possibilities or allows only the possibility of obtaining opinions on those issues from the Government and the Council of Justice, which the President of the Republic has also taken into account and would be good to extend in the future, through legislative amendment, to other bodies which could qualify for those candidates. At the end of this procedure, as stated, the President of the Republic proposed two candidates who both met the conditions laid down, both of whom received the support of both the Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and accordingly proposed that the President of the Republic elect one of the two candidates to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. You've received a report. Would representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word to present their views? Please, Mr Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to point out that the minutes we received on the table leave out important points of reference by a member or representative of the President of the Republic, who said them on the Mandate- volitional Commission and who has actually repeated them. This key emphasis on why this proposal for Eurojust has been so late is in fact because the Government has extremely delayed its decision to support the list proposed by the President of the Republic. In fact, this is not the first time we have seen candidates for international institutions being confirmed in this mandate with delays. We had such delays this year, and some have also been caused by difficulties in organizing work in the National Assembly. However, this delay was mainly due to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is obviously not properly organised, is not properly staffed and leaves important decisions, so that the President of the Republic had to re-examine with the request of the Government that it should be proposed or given an opinion on the procedure for the appointment of a candidate or candidate for a national representative in Euraust. I would like to say that, in fact, the problem is not a law that is really slightly more complicated and requires slightly more organisational activities of all those who are in this process. This is mainly the problem of work, organisation of work and timing, timing of work in those institutions, in those bodies which are obliged to react in a timely manner and give appropriate consent. Unfortunately, the main problem or problem in this procedure is the government, not for the first time, probably not for the last time. However, we can see that some other human resources procedures are taking place extremely quickly and particularly differently. We regret such delays in appointing and proposing candidates for the most important functions in the European institutions. In the future, we certainly want those who are involved in individual procedures to draw up their own opinions, their own views, their proposals in a timely manner and do not expose the Republic of Slovenia as a country which, even when it comes to candidateing and appointing them, does not take place in a timely manner and as is expected of a regulated European country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group that would like to present its position? He doesn't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? They don't want to. I conclude this presentation and this concludes the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Anton Kolarič - SD, Robert Hrovat - SDS, Franci Kek - Really, Guido Kres - SLS, I am also the chairman of this commission. Ms Mojca Prelesnik, Secretary-General of the National Assembly, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? He doesn't mind. We are moving on to a decision on such a composition of the Commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each individual to the table of the President and by his name and surname. In alphabetical order, the proposed candidates for the national representative in Eurojust will be recorded on the vote. A candidate shall be voted for by surrounding a serial number before the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 10.25 p.m. and will last until 10.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. We'll resume the session at 10.50. I'm adjourning the session for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u8	Colleagues and fellow Members, we are continuing our meeting. We continue with the suspension of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for national representative in Eurojust. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote for candidate for national representative in Eurojust. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 July 2009. 77 votes were distributed, 77 votes were cast, two votes invalid, 75 votes valid. The proposed candidates received the following number of votes: Malči Gabrielčič 68 votes, Vojka Vidovic 7 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Malča Gabrielčič was elected national representative candidate in Eurojust with the required majority. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of the management and supervisory bodies in the course of the financial and economic crisis, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by Vila Trofenik. I give the floor to the motioner of the Bill, William Trofenik, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. The consequences of the economic financial crisis also require appropriate measures in the area of wages of managers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a series of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, including a recommendation to representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the supervisory bodies of companies whose majority ownership is the Republic of Slovenia, to conclude employment contracts for managers or to determine adequate salaries, awards and discharges in view of crisis situations. In the implementation of the Government's recommendations on wage policy, however, there are difficulties in carrying out controls, as the Government, except in exceptional cases, does not have the necessary instruments to carry out controls. The specific problem in providing a system of adequate wages for managers, given the crisis situation, is the wages of managers in legal entities which receive different forms of State aid to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. And that's exactly what this bill is about. The problem of ensuring adequate wages for managers, given the current situation, is increasingly a problem of management ethics. The reduction in the wages of managers depends more on the decisions of the managers themselves than on the supervisory authorities. The existing system of awarding managers stimulates some specific management behaviour that is short-term, risky and promotes moral gambling, rewards success, and does not sanction failures. As a result, additional taxation should prevent or eliminate the payment of unjustifiable awards and the extraordinary award of management in times of financial and economic crisis and allow the management to contribute to the recovery of the financial and economic crisis in accordance with the principle of solidarity with higher taxes. The proposed law therefore provides that natural persons who run or supervise legal entities receiving state aid to mitigate the effects of the financial and economic crisis will be liable to pay an additional tax of 49% of the monthly salary of more than EUR 12000 500 per year from prizes exceeding EUR 25 000 per year and removals exceeding EUR 75 000 and credits exceeding EUR 25 000 per year. The additional tax is also payable to members of supervisory authorities receiving state aid, namely for meetings exceeding EUR 358 per session and awards, if they exceed EUR 12 000 500 per year. The taxpayers for the additional tax are obliged to submit the corresponding tax forecast by 31 March. However, payers, recipients of State aid, are obliged to provide the tax authorities with the necessary information to calculate the tax. The law is to be in force by the end of 2010 or by the end of the tax year in which the guarantees or guarantees and measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis are to expire. Finally, I would like to define myself for the amendments tabled. I agree with the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, but I do not agree with the other amendments because they go beyond the concept of the law or the basic criteria for taxpayers for additional taxation, i.e. participation in State aid or other measures to strengthen the financial and economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 6th meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of management and supervisory authorities during the financial and economic crisis submitted by Mr Villa Trofenik to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on the bill submitted of 17. 6. 2009 considers that in the context of current economic developments, which do not yet show a near improvement, the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. The first was the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory position. The opinion is based on a series of warnings which, with a general comment on the lack of explanation of the proposal, conveys specific comments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 11 and 12. The legislative proposal shall be amended in accordance with Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 13 of the proposal. 6. tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Committee on Economics, Crafts, Tourism and Finance on the proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on 3, 4, 5, 8, 11 and 13 on the initiative of the drafter of the law of Mr Villa Trofenik, as follows from the continuation of this report, and of the summary of the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further drew attention to certain still open issues, including the question of the definition of a taxable person. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, it is a criterion for determining the receipt of State aid, which is also justified by natural persons who employ workers. The following was exposed to a high level of taxation from the point of view of the protection of property rights, given that income already taxed on income was a possible excessive intervention and the retrograde of the text presented. The representative of the Government then stated in the presentation of the delivered opinion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. At the same time, it expressed its support for the proposals for amendments to the committee tabled by the drafter. The Committee further took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the initiative of the proposed law-maker, Mr Villa Trofenik, when considering the individual articles of the text submitted pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, adopted the amendments to Articles 3, 4, 5, 8, 11 and 13. On the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the amendments and articles of the law submitted. At the time of its consideration, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1, Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, Article 8 or Article 13 of the legislative proposal. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The government supports the bill because it considers it an important component of all the measures already proposed by the Government in the fight against the crisis. At the same time, it notes that, in fact, the law constitutes a measure of a short-term nature and does not constitute a system law by its very nature, purpose and purpose. Nor does it support the amendments of the SDS Group, which would complement the law. So, should I conclude, the Government supports the adoption of the law as submitted for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the bill, with the amendments tabled, with which we are also co-signatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the DeSUS Group, we are vigilant and concerned about the economic, economic and financial crisis, as well as the measures taken in this regard. For some, we consider that they do not give enough results and that they are being implemented too selectively, this moment, for example, a guarantee scheme, where we happen that those companies in the class C credit rating, if we say "Slengo", do not actually come along. As far as this law is concerned, our consideration will be needed until the end of the decision, although in principle we support the limitation of excessive wages. We believe, however, that some of the weaknesses that appear in the proposed bill should also be noted. The law, which we call the management tax law, the extra tax for times of crisis only for managers and those who supervise managers, is understood to be one of the anti-crisis measures. At the same time, it is considered a moral-ethical correction, not so much for professional and business decisions. In this regard, it should be noted that there was some discomfort in the opinions presented by the Government in the procedure, when it mentioned at least twice the constitutional issue, both in relation to horizontal discrimination and in relation to retroactive validity. Later, some of these concerns were also lost, and today we have heard that the Government supports this bill, which was adopted after amendments to the Committee on Finance. We believe, however, that it is also necessary to reflect on what has been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made such comments on each article of its comments. It should be noted that there has been a lack of professional support for this law. We have not noticed that experts would respond to this mass in terms of support. We could say earlier that some critical thoughts have been written and expressed in this regard and that the amendments proposed by the opposition SDS are worth considering. For the first time, because they eliminate targeted, selectively targeted direction with regard to directors and supervisors, this horizontal discrimination is reflected. It is not all of them, therefore, but only some who are chosen according to certain criteria. And because it's about time constraints. If, as is stated in the justification, salaries should be limited, they should probably be limited systematically, over a long period and not only during the crisis. The DeSUS Group also notes that the measures are aimed only at those receiving State aid and that those who were previously thought to be released are those in which the State has a significant ownership stake. We estimate that the law is somehow targeted, we would say, criminally in such a way that those salaries that are considered inappropriate are limited to inappropriate, high-end awards restricting what is right, but it is too narrowly thought out, at least in our judgment, when only those who are covered by measures that have already been adopted and who themselves are already subject to the limitation of awards and certain other ratings that the managers of these companies have. It seems to us that it is also a mistake to assess the managers of companies that have problems as bad managers and that there is no point in discriminating them so that we will not get the best. Because bad companies need the best and most socially responsible managers. And it seems to us that there is no real argument of solidarity with workers because only those in the narrow segment of management should be aware of these solidaritys; not all others; they are dissolved from this law. That is why we will consider whether to support the opposition amendments, both of us who are talking about limiting to a longer mandate the amount of extenuating wages, and that all of this is limited, to say the least. So, we will reconsider and only after this discussion will we decide whether to support or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u19	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mrs. Kanglerova. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party we support the proposal for an additional tax law on income from members of management and supervisory authorities. We support the bill, which looks like the whole house is on fire and it burns up and there's a little flame there, the firefighters come and put it out. That's right. And it won't be left now, right. Since 1998 restrictions have been in force, these restrictions have been imposed by the Government - as regards the salaries of managers. Managers didn't take them into account. The then government didn't react. Data. At the time, they paid off: the President of the Sava administration, Petrol, Peter Tomšič, Frančiška Hunjet, Marjan Vidmar - EUR 335 million, Janez Lotrič - EUR 423 000, Zoran Jankovic [[still on Mercator]] - 412 thousand euros. Sit down! Assemble and you will see that it is a shame that there is so much money that the Court does not have for the parade horse of the Slovenian industry Mura! It's a mess and a shame! We don't have $5 million to save Mura for at least two, three months, a tomato horse, a higher technology, and the best seams and creators. Shame! Three million have been paid off, that's what to say. First of all, managers in Great Britain, second in Germany, third in Slovenia. Please, in Slovenia! The Austrians had over 300 grand, ours had over 400. That's great! And that's why we're where we are. And no government has done anything. What we are now witnessing, thank God Mr Trofenic has remembered, but he is only a small fire that we will put out. I'm asking you nicely, and then the amendments that are fair, and no matter what SDS wrote them, you don't admit it. Specifically, the amendment to Article 5 - we have now imposed some penalties, you poor, you, by 2010. Yeah, what are we gonna do about it? What? Nothing! Now, in a time of crisis, no manager will earn anything, until 2010, and then they'll start stealing again. And this amendment is real, and support it if you're honest. Penalties, see, in Article 12, sanctions, earnings of 500 000 euros. I will not report them, I will not - and I will be punished with 25,000 Euros of fine, because I will deny 250,000 Euros. Is that punishment? Is that fair? And the Slovenians on the road, tomorrow, 2,000! Thank God this is the law. He's passed. It's just a little fire. And don't tell me that the government just recommends - writes. Data on the remuneration of management are not public. Why is our data public? I don't care who owns it! How can someone who has earned, according to concrete data, 445 000 per person - I am talking about the Union administration - how can this information, which is hidden, our data, which we have paid 2,300 euros net, about, is public! It's public to all workers with 500, 600 euros, and no one remembers them! Shame on this country! And let me say unto this authority once: and unto all those that were before in authority, ye were with them. I say, I've only counted five of them, who have collected more than three million euros. Why didn't we give them to Muri? This law should enter into force, not for 2009 until 2010, and this law should be retrograded and should not, from 1998 onwards, impose 50% of taxes on everyone from 1998 to today and nothing with a restriction of 2010. To the end! We will support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party, but with a bitter taste for some articles. It's just like a fire extinguisher, but I hope I've exposed this disgrace that's been happening since 1998. And revealed the names and all those who cashed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u20	Mr. Barovich, time's up. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At a time when the global financial and economic crisis has taken over Slovenia and when the State grants guarantees or guarantees and also concrete funds to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, it is right to regulate the remuneration of the members of the management boards and the supervisory boards of the undertakings receiving these measures. We therefore support the amended proposal for a law which taxes the situation of inadequately high income of members of the administration and of the supervisory boards in the way that, in fact, every surplus under the law on determining the amount of 100 per cent is taxed. In fact, this law deals with the issue of management ethics. It is a matter of regulating the problem of a handful of exceptional individual cases, which, in our view, is also important, as it is a symbolic signal to Slovenian society, its citizens and citizens. The proposaler is obviously self-critical and satirical as a dot and represents exactly the case of NLB and Marjan Kramar, for whom it is evident that the basis for such payment was provided by the Government under the leadership of LDS, whose members you were then almost all those who, on this occasion, make up a coalition in the role of three parties. While this is a necessary marriage, it is not the salvation of Mr. Anderlich, I would have you [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u22	Peace in the hall! Sir, mag. Crane, continue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u23	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would like to ask, because at every performance I have in this Chamber, my colleague, Mr Anderlich, always has something to add.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u24	Dear Mr Anderlich, I ask that you maintain peace in the Chamber and that you do not speak during the shifts. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u25	However, it is not a solution that would in any way help solve the economic crisis or solve the real problems of Slovenia, the Slovenian transitions and its, if that is the way you wish, tycoons. So it is not a measure to mitigate the financial and economic crisis. I wonder why the great advocates for ethical issues and restrictions on the state of excellence in Slovenian society do not submit or support a bill that would, for example, prevent the provision of guarantees, guarantees or funds to the tycoons for the so-called managers' purchases of businesses. We are talking about millions of euros here, not a few thousand. Maybe this problem isn't transcendent and not ethical, it's hard to spit in your own bowl, nothing. Unfortunately, that is the case, and as long as we witness such a transfer of both political options, so long Slovenian citizens cannot expect politics to work for their own good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much. He's got a word, mag. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to representatives of the Ministry, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we have before us an interesting proposal for a law, and I can say that in the Liberal Democracy we welcome the reflections and the content that the proposer wanted to communicate and regulate. The law gives some answers to important questions, but in the same breath it also opens up other dilemmas and questions that we do not yet have answers to. I am sure that we will get them in the course of the debate and then we will vote as always in the Liberal Democracy Club on this law, each on our own conviction and judgment. The law was created as a result of a joint conviction of excessive payments in the management, which in these difficult times does not see the burden sharing of the crisis along with other parts of society. The question of what is the main purpose of this law is likely to be on the spot. The basic purpose of this law is and must be to limit abnormal, excessive, sometimes even unbelievably high incomes or rewards. The question that we ask ourselves: Who is it and should it be directed to? The law is limited to undertakings which have received a guarantee or guarantee or other funds from the State on the basis of financial economic counter-crisis measures. This will certainly prevent the extraordinary phenomena we have witnessed in the United States when managers, when receiving state aid of various forms, continue to pay off fat money for their supposed successful work. Who would benefit from this? I think that the greatest benefits must be for the companies in which they are employed, as they will no longer be burdened by the payment of high sums of prizes, or by this they will also better manage the relationship between the incomes themselves within businesses, i.e. between the employees and the managers themselves, where such imbalances should no longer occur, and all of this is, of course, assessed as positive, good and good. Last but not least, perhaps even the most important - the law represents some social standards in Slovenia, where we have been constantly witnessing enormous payments to management in recent years. On the other hand, we are convinced that managers and workers must be properly rewarded for their work. That is why certain dilemmas arise in this law too. Such laws raise important questions that have already been raised in public, such as: Will we be able to obtain appropriate experts - managers to run the most important companies? And we need to make clear the answers to this question when we adopt this law, otherwise the law will not be good. Consider the example of Elan: Of the top ten assistant managers, the left and right hand of the administration, after they found out what salaries they would pay, four of them withdrew. Simply, we must demand fair pay for honest work and that fair payment is also linked to the results of work. I'm sure a lot of people in Mura today wouldn't mind if the manager didn't have a huge salary, just to save the company with his results, at least in a healthy core, and put it on its feet. Of the many other dilemmas to which answers must also be found that if the law, any, goes to ad persons or is politically motivated, then it certainly does not lead us to the goal that we can also talk about discrimination in this law and distinguish the debtors. That it is positive because it is limited to a time of crisis and is expected to expire in 2010 that, of course, disproportionately divided tax burdens are among citizens. That we also need to adapt the relevant amendments to the Income Act. And what is most important in our legislation is that we must also put in place adequate and consistent control over the implementation of the law. In Slovenia, it is necessary to strategically set out what policy should be for good and quality managers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u28	Comrade Saiovic, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to your colleagues and colleagues in the hall. Good afternoon, Madam Secretary of State Helena Kamnar. The Social Democrats' Group supports the proposal for an additional tax on the income of members of management and supervisory authorities, since at least during this period of financial crisis, they are correcting in part the income differences resulting from the changes in the Income Act or the increase in income differences, as supervisors and managers received excessively high rewards in the previous mandate, at reduced taxes. The current government has partly arranged for the remuneration of the Supervisory Boards when it prohibited members of the Supervisory Boards from participating in the company's profits, but despite the Government's adoption of a regulation on meetings and reimbursements of the costs of the Supervisory Boards and Councils in public funds, public agencies, public institutions and public economic institutions, it is necessary to tax the excess amounts further. It is therefore necessary to tax further the management and supervisory councils of legal persons in which the Republic of Slovenia is a majority owner directly or indirectly, and legal persons who have received guarantees or means from the State to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis on the basis of measures taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the proposed regulation of the additional tax will only apply during the crisis, since most of the anti-crisis measures are of a short-term nature, it is said that by the end of 2010 or by the end of the state guarantees. As regards the appropriateness of the proposed solution, it should be noted that Slovenia is not the only one who came up with additional taxation during the crisis. In the United States of America, too, they passed a law on taxation of corporate management awards because they receive state aid. Thus, in state aid companies, the annual remuneration of managers was limited to a maximum of EUR 500 000, without emoluments and awards, and dividend payments were prohibited. Under this Income Act, Slovenia will be taxed in full at an additional rate of 49%. The net salaries paid for more than €12,500 will be significantly lower. While the law will reduce available income for certain managers and members of the Supervisory Boards, this will not negatively affect economic growth, as taxpayers with over-average incomes will not use them for current consumption, but do not represent such a large share in consumption, so that they can have an impact on economic growth reduction in Slovenia. However, these additional resources will also have a minor impact on the financing of the budget. For all of this, the law for our Group is acceptable and, as it is said, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Rado Likar, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is more than obvious that people are not willing to voluntarily give up material advantages, and so in Slovenia the award of management has increased significantly since independence. Above all, during the financial and economic crisis, the question arises how it is possible for business leaders to have such high incomes and rewards, even in cases where their companies are not doing well or failing. We've heard some names today, so I wouldn't repeat them here. The fact is that the implementation of government recommendations on the level of income-generating management in enterprises that are owned by the majority of the state, as well as management in financial institutions and companies that have received, or will receive, funds from, the country, in practice, are difficult to control and are practically not implemented. One such case is the supervision of the implementation of subsidisation measures for reduced working time, which prohibits employers from paying prizes to members of the management and supervisory board. This has already proved to be true in practice. The additional problem is that wages and management awards are subject to civil contractual relations between companies and those individuals and are also offensive. On the other hand, the income figures for management are not public and the government does not have an overview of them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this law could help solve the problem of over-expert and excellent remuneration for the management that we are witnessing especially during the financial and economic crisis. The law will partly help to ensure that bad managers do not pay excessive and extraordinary rewards, especially in the event of business failure. The proposal for a law in Article 5 provides, inter alia, for additional taxation of salaries or remuneration in labour exceeding EUR 12,500 gross. In our parliamentary group, we believe that a more appropriate provision would be to tax further all benefits from the employment relationship achieved by the debtors, namely natural persons who operate business or supervise the business entity of a legal person whose majority owner is the State of Slovenia and who have received from the country guarantees or funds to mitigate the financial and economic crisis and exceed the salary of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, it would be appropriate to include in the taxpayers for the payment of this tax also the leading managers of the State SID bank, as well as the bankruptcy and liquidation managers whose remuneration in some cases is too high in relation to the results and therefore also unethical. We are also of the opinion that the law should be in force permanently and not only until the end of the state guarantees and other measures to mitigate the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis. In our view, the bill is a step forward towards limiting payments of income and management awards that run business or control business entities where the country has a dominant influence, or legal persons who receive any assistance from the country to mitigate the crisis and who are particularly unethical in the event of poor conduct. This is why we will support the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles tabled in the amendments to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled in question of 9. Seven. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Please, for your application. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for an amendment prepared by our parliamentary group, which foresees that all revenues above the salary level of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be covered by taxation, is perfectly logical. In Slovenia we have witnessed incredible anomalies and financial frauds that have been allowed by various state-owned and state-owned entities for years and years to pay off incredible salaries. This is a way to at least partially limit this matter. However, I am afraid that the bill-makers have done this as a beautiful correction, because exactly the same parties actually have a double morality, a double behavior. Even with the law on how tycoon credits should not be extended, there was a change. They looked different in the background. In the end, it turned out that those who were the most intolerant have hidden companies abroad and have also received Taliban loans, virtually unsecured, if a company is worth 50,000 euros and receives 6 million euros of credit and with its own property, which is 50,000 euros, so shown abroad, there is no coverage. In this regard, I ask whether they were honest this time, or whether these people were told how to avoid it because it was a show for the people. I will support this law and this amendment makes sense. It is necessary to make a limit and the President of the Government is the number one in this country to be. And in the state administration, there should be no higher income in state-owned companies. Whoever says it's gonna bring the world down, let them go somewhere else, into a private company. There are enough decent people, young people who will do well. And these managers are yelling at how the world is going to collapse if it's limited to them and they're going to go somewhere else. Let them go, let them go, but let them not be leeches of the state budget and of people being gathered in all areas. The solutions contained in this law must be implemented in a very consistent manner. I'm afraid that various bank administrations will be through awards, through supervisory councils, we know that the Ljubljana Bank is all members of the boards of supervisors of four bank exposures in Germany, Sarajevo, etc., and they share crazy awards that are probably not covered here because this is shown elsewhere. This is best known in the Ministry of Finance for the frauds and the bypasses they've always used and used. Also bankruptcy procedures. At the beginning of March, we adopted a change of law, and I warned that there should be a difference in that law. That law has been passed so that taxes can be paid back, now we see, and one lady sues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u36	Your Honor, Comrade Jerovšek, let us be more limited to this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u37	300 000 euros were quickly paid out on the basis of a change of law. [[..]] These names have some meaning in the Slovenian space, these surnames: Tož, Marinc, etc. We know exactly who they belong to, who ordered them to do so, and which courts will approve. That's outrageous. This is why I support the law, but I am distrustful of the proponents because it is a manoeuvre. It's those clients that are actually the most out-of-the-box jobs in the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you for your advice, Mr. Anderlich, and for your help. I should have responded to the predecessor first. He says he doesn't trust the proponents. Unfortunately, it's a unit. It would be good if there were more of us, but I'm alone and I have no hidden intentions. First of all, I am obliged to say in Article 5 why such a solution is, because the amendment relates to Article 5. Pays over 12 thousand 500 euros a month, annual reward over 25 thousand, retirement over 75 thousand, income participation [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] expenditure over 25 thousand and ratings above 25 thousand. [[...]] These are the prescribed criteria of the Association of Managers, so there is no indication that the policy or proposer wants to prosecute or any other good managers with this proposal simply does not withstand any serious criticism, because these positions, these criteria of the Association of Managers, as the highest, are appropriate according to their assessment, according to the opinion of the State Association of Managers, are the numbers that served as the basis for the law. I spoke of the amendments in principle at the beginning, in an additional explanation. Nevertheless, I must point out that I do not reject the SDS amendment because it is an opposition party - I think that in the case of this law, at least I personally understand it, on the same side, because it was presented in the position to support it - but we would go to another field, in some other framework, as is the case with the law itself. On this occasion, allow also, because in some of the performances or presentations of opinions as well as in the public at issue, any constitutionality or compliance with the Constitution has been problematic. The government also wrote an unwarranted sentence to fear that it might be problematic about the constitution, but it did not explain it anywhere. The legal and legal service, which is professional and I respect it very much and, of course, as an inequitable person, I am not going to argue with it, but at the same time, I will clearly and frankly admit that my model was the same law in America. It was only there that the applicant had at his disposal high-level legal authority, which could defend a similar law. Of course, we have the potential for controversy first with Article 33 of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court in 1998 and 1999, which relates to a completely different issue, is cited. It was the Tax Act, the Special Tax Act on Balanced Banks and Savings and our Constitutional Court that referred to the criteria of the German Constitutional Court that the relationship between public and private in terms of mitigation should not exceed 50% or this ratio of fifti: fifti. In that, if I say so, it's another problem for my marriage. This is an intervention measure through the taxation of unjustified or unjustifiable spillages of part of State aid, which is the right part of public funds in private pockets if I say so harshly, management and supervisory authorities. Therefore, the content and instruments of the contested decision simply cannot be interpreted or cut down because it is an exceptional measure, through tax, to achieve the return of part of the public funds that have been poured into the private pocket into the private pocket of the administration or supervisory authorities. And this is a fundamental goal and a fundamental guide and, of course, those who want unconstitutionality will have to make an effort here and prove if it is in the case of someone from the state Treasury indirectly paying off an unjustifiable something in their own pocket. It is difficult to speak and generalise, as is customary for us to declare something of a right to be acquired, and then jump immediately to Article 33 of the Constitution and claim that rights have been acquired and that they cannot be affected in any way or other. We cannot talk here about the acquired right, in fact we could talk about the stolen right stolen from the public treasury, but not acquired, or if you want in the transferred, obtained at the expense of damage or at the expense of the public treasury. So much for the possible dispute with Article 33 of the Constitution when it is tried in some way as an argument that the possible matter is disputed. I do not object to the claims or declarations that it would be possible with any other law, with any other ambition to cut into any other income or to tax anyone else, but this has not been my ambition so far. Of course, it should also be borne in mind that, in addition to the criterion or even vice versa, the original written proposal had first-hand ownership criteria of a legal person who is predominantly owned by the Republic of Slovenia. But that's where we were on the slippery slope of any constitutional dispute, because it would be targeted at specific known cases. Therefore, we had to avoid that field so that we would not consciously come across a constitutional provision. On the other hand, there is only a situation, although difficult, slightly different in relation to the available instruments available to owners or founders of institutions or public undertakings. In our situation, these are just two levels: either the state, or the government, or the local community. Who's in there, and we know. Another issue, I will take this opportunity and the time available to me could possibly be at Article 155 of the Constitution, for reasons of retrograde. However, there is also a problem with the reference to whether this article should remain because it must then be read in full, not only paragraph 1 but paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. The Constitutional Court in the decision cited does not claim anywhere, and it is also possible to read in layman's language of Article 155 of the Constitution that retroactivity is categorically prohibited in all cases. Retroactivity is permitted under the conditions laid down in Article 155, paragraph 2, of the Constitution to be determined by law. And that's the case. This is a matter of public interest, which is due to an exceptional situation. This exceptional situation is a financial-economic crisis and it is therefore necessary, or appropriate, that this exceptional measure, in accordance with the law or under the law, also goes backwards, and I think that in this case, too, there is no problem with the constitutional provision, but at least with Article 155, which would potentially be disputed in this respect. This should be said because some of the conclusions in the performances or positions of individual parliamentary groups, or some of the reactions in the public at the time of the introduction of this law, and later in the procedure, were those which at first appeared to raise doubts about constitutional consistency, and at the time of further examination or assessment it was found that this matter was not as simple as it seemed. Once again, because of the potential danger of constitutional dispute, as a proposaler, I had to move away from the criterion that it is legal entities that are predominantly state-owned and, of course, the basic criterion is the very criteria for receiving state aid. From this point of view, of course, all ideas, criticisms, recommendations, I take them well in order to make it good for the law to be valid. There is no limit because the source is State aid, State aid is limited for a certain period of time and some which have been exposed here, so it would not be individualised. One more time to finish. Because of what I have said twice, I think I cannot agree or agree with the amendment, although I am not saying that it is not well-intentioned, as proposed by the SDS Group of Members. The amendment, which has been tabled by the four coalition parliamentary groups, is followed by a comment by the Legal and Legislative Service, because we have overlooked something and need to be corrected in the Committee's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. The proposer partly replied where this amount is worth EUR 12 000 500. From the material, I don't think it was visible. It seemed to us that this additional tax would be paid for all the benefits higher than that of the Prime Minister of the Government. The Prime Minister's salary may be one criterion, given that the President of the Government is number one in the country, I see no reason why we should not take this into account. I therefore propose that you support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. If I support some of the SDS proposals, I must say no. For a very simple reason. This is about the link between politics, the first policy, between the President of the Government of this country and the career professionals who serve their salaries in such a way as to conclude a contract. The contracts probably say they've been paid out of success. And that's not a problem. It is problematic when this success is not valued in the right way. For this reason, I do not think that tying business performance to the Presidency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the most appropriate. Another problem is what are good and what are bad managers. Let me say that we do wrong when we say that all those who have asked for state aid are bad managers. Many of them are probably the ones who fight like lions to save what perhaps someone else has already spent. Many have good ideas, but within the measures we are now implementing, in fact, they cannot participate in them. To say that all that is related to some of the measures that we have taken here in the National Assembly is bad, is discriminatory and I think it is a false signal to our public. It's a signal that defuses our managers without them, and I think we need to specifically look for those who are good managers and those who are managers with some social responsibility. Compared to these, poor managers are exposed to good managers who can have special awards and so on. And let's ask ourselves, are all those who have good results, or maybe don't surf on a wave of external reasons, on conjunctural waves, let's say they have a possible monopoly, a special position that they can take advantage of? This way to separate the bad and the good managers, it seems unfair to me. As regards the need to limit very high or abnormal high remuneration, we also agree in principle in the DeSUS Group. Whether the right criteria have been chosen or not, this is now another question. The applicant explained that the criteria were in fact summarised after what the management company proposed. But the company of managers of these criteria and these numbers were not proposed. In crisis situations, it did not take into account what happened later and it did not have the intention of having these criteria intervened for one year. And these are some of the reasons why we think that concerns are justified, which does not mean that we would not support this law, but we think that it is somehow lacking, that something is missing, and that it would be significantly better if it were comprehensive, more systematic and not as interventional for a year as it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I want to make it clear because there are some things that are not clear. The main solutions to the proposal for an additional tax on income from members of management and supervisory authorities during the financial and economic crisis are to address the problem in enterprises that are majority state-owned. So don't mix now with successful managers there, there, there, or those who will receive funds from the state. That's the first time. Another time. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment to Article 5. I said it before, and once again I criticise the previous government because it had a marriage, because it had levers, and the managers did not respect the government, the former I say, overlooked it peacefully. But I'll back it up. Why? Let me make this very simple. If I'm a manager today and I have a law here that assumes that in the case of a salary of twelve thousand euros a month. First of all, I'd like you to write gross or net here, no matter how much I know you think I think I know it's gross. In one year and a half, as far as this law is concerned, I, as the manager, will give up peacefully and I will pay 12,449 euros, and everyone will do it because they are smart. First, because there's no money, secondly, because it's a recession, and thirdly, because they know what's ahead. By the last December 2010, I will have a salary of 12,449 euros. And what will we do with this law and get it? None of the estimated taxes exceeding that amount at a tax rate of 49%. And no one's paying any taxes. And what are we gonna do? Today we will sit up to two here on this bill, we will achieve nothing, the law will be adopted, and the tax will not be paid by one. 1.1.2011 will pay everyone 30, 40, 50 000 euros. That's how it's gonna be. That is why this symbolic amendment to Article 5 is for everyone who exceeds the pay of the President of the Government - I would rather write "President of the State", for example - let it be true, and we will see how it goes. I respect those managers who work hard. However, if we look at those who have earned the most since 1998 and their businesses, are we so honest that we can see where they are? Where's Mercator? Where's Petrol? Where are the other companies? Where are they? They're gone! Are they successful managers if they fail? They're not! They're not. If it's a war, it's a war for everyone, colleagues and colleagues. And why not, at a symbolic level, if we are already speaking for a year and a half, adopt an amendment to Article 5 of the SDS colleagues, which says everyone should pay the tax 49% for 2009 and 2010 for two years, which will exceed the salary of the Prime Minister of the Government or the President of the National Assembly or the President of the State. Why not? It's only two years. Why not? We're not gonna do anything. I'm stressing once again, let's be honest. The same as it is - otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we will have another amendment if this one falls because I know that it will support. But this other amendment doesn't really say anything. The amendment of the coalition parties to Article 5 states: "In the case of other revenue received for the supervision of a business entity, including awards." Because all we have here is the rewards mentioned, and here's the "other income". What income do supervisors receive under point 2 of the first paragraph? None. That's, I mean, honestly written and meant, but they don't have any other income. At a symbolic level for a year and a half, if you do not accept the amendment to Article 13, which says that this law enters into force on the first day after the publication of the Official Journal without a time limit, which I believe you will not, but let us at least undermine the amendment to Article 5 of the SDS, and we will see how honest all those who do so today will again be entitled to a gross amount of EUR 12,449 pay the 0,0 tax at the 49% rate envisaged in this law. That's how it's gonna And I will remind you in 2011 if I am alive and well sitting in this Parliament that this is the case. We will not receive one euro of taxes from the title of this law, which, I admit, is well-intentioned and the first step towards further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u47	Given the problem of the law itself, it is a question of whether it makes sense to say whether this amendment is acceptable or unacceptable. For me, this law is highly competitive at a time when everyone tries to point out who has too much, who is the bigger bastard, but does not deal with what is essential in this country at this point in time. I never agreed to limit myself to the average, over the finger and not to take into account what was essential. Yes, according to the results, according to the arrangements that are within and within the associations that have been discussed today. What is the key issue with this thing? The fact that every mandate, every government, every minister who had to deal with the salaries of officials, managers and so forth in the public sector, made a tremendous effort, was not aware of the great meetings, I don't know what big conclusions, but the anomalies were going on. Maximum in the last four, five years. Before there's any mistake, at least what I can read. It is therefore appropriate to compare certain benefits in the economy at this point in time, in those activities which this law is intended to touch and in those undertakings that this is incompatible with the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the Member of Parliament and so on. It's the best thing to do anyway, and it's the most appropriate thing. Tell me, in the paper, I read that we will receive the director of the NLB, director of the Slovenian Railways, with an international invitation to tender. And the director of the Slovenian Railways will come from Germany and lead the Deutschebank until now, with a salary of 800,000 euros and is expected to rehabilitate them and bring them to the green branch next year. He'll get a net of 5,000 euros, out of which they'll give him a car rating, they'll take 200, 300 euros a month for his car rating, they'll give him extra credit for his office apartment and equipment in his apartment, and so on. And you think this system is going to work? He won't. I'm pretty sure of that. Far from anyone saying I'm rooting for "no limit" benefits. Of course I don't do that. But I would like to point out that from my modest life experiences, which go back at least 20 years and beyond, whenever we adopted legislation with restrictions, with prohibitions, with restrictions that hit the wire, there were solutions that individuals and groups found and then corrected in different ways. That's why I'm embarrassed because I don't want to compete with all those who point fingers at how managers and all those who work in different places are bad guys and get too much of who let them do it. It's the supervisors. The owners are the ones who should do it. Why didn't any government do it, do it, and obviously not, effectively? Or because a regulation is not implemented, some agreement should not be implemented, and a law should be adopted. And if this law is not enforced, then another law will have to be passed. I firmly believe the government is right when it says it's questionable to go back. You can't back off, but that's another question. I'd rather see if we could separate things that have to be separated and are incomparable in order to approach these things. But the fact that the anomalies were and I am confident that they are necessary and could be prevented, there is no doubt about it. But I don't want to see it. This is where it was said that even in America they did it and that. Yes, they also put $30 or $50 billion in the City Group in America, but there they increased their wages, so our newspapers say the most responsible and they tied them to the result in this situation. I think that the crisis is not only an opportunity to limit itself as much as possible, to prevent things from being restrictively set up, but also to reflect on who to trust in them at this time, how much to reward and, above all, to claim results and, of course, also to stimulate negatively, as it is said, or that the next month, when he leaves a place like this, he will not go to a better place again within the system, where public resources and state property are, etc., to get a better job forward. These are all things that would probably be worth talking about, like the amendment, which actually looks beautiful, likes, the President of the Government is the most responsible, etc., he has solutions for everything and is responsible for everything, etc. And we tie the highest wage anywhere. I don't think it can be supported, of course, by the law, given what can be heard from the debate, it will get the green light, but I'm not excited about such an approach that goes back to history, so it goes back. The solutions from the arsenal of past times cannot be the answer for the time we are now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u48	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 5, the amendments? Check-in is on. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I took the floor as a proposaler because there are some things that need to be reacted to in the debate, in my view, wrongly understood or wrongly defended by law. We are in a substantially amended law because it has been on the committee, as I have already said, and once again I ask that this be taken into account, there is no criterion anymore; ownership is a criterion exclusively state aid. It's not true that this law sets the criteria for good and bad managers, it's not true, it's easy. This law lays down the criteria for overpaid rewards and similar benefits that have been poured into private pockets at the expense of the budget. Of course, they can be good and bad because they can also be good managers in those companies that are forced by others, despite good governance, I will say, to ask for state aid, that is to say, those who ask for state aid and have received it do not necessarily have to be bad managers, it is not possible to understand directly or indirectly from the law, nor is it the intention of the law. It is true, however, that because of State aid, the results of some, under the terms "too good" may be too much of a reward, and they try to limit themselves to that. Of course, it's limited, someone said, yes, well, if the managers have already accepted it or not reflected the time of that number, if I make it very simple, not for these times. I don't know what others would have accepted in these times, whether it's a fact or a proposal, we could be philosophical, we could be higher amounts, we could say, because they're tougher conditions, but they could be lower amounts. But simply the management did not accept it, did not propose, did not advise and, of course, did not make such an impression that the policy is affected, that it limits the wrongly earned awards of managers or anything, was and is still a meaningful choice of these criteria in a financial sense, which they themselves have proposed. There was something else in the debate that did not fit the truth, but probably superficial reading, I apologize. This is not true that it is possible to speculate that they will wait until after 2010, to expire and that they will then pay. No, article 13 of the Act, supplemented, please, foresees all these options, including speculative ones. Firstly, it is true that until 31 December 2010, the second paragraph really states that until the expiry of the guarantees and other measures, and the third paragraph just prevents speculation that even after the expiry of the guarantees no one would retain the payment, and I will not name a similar pattern as it once was in the past; and later pay off. This third paragraph of Article 13 clearly and loudly prevents and is also intended to propose an amendment or supplement a proposal on the home working body. Of course, the assessment that this is an outdated instrument; from some arsenal of the past, about which everyone can have an opinion, I don't intend to even politicize myself, but after that where they interfere in the world - this is about as in sports, some share players or athletes with the old and young, but in fact there is no such division, there are good and bad. So it's hard to agree to such a qualification, but everyone has a right to an opinion. However, I must reject the assessment that this law is made out of some ambition after competition. Who? Because then there should be at least another competitive law or at least one competitive idea. It would be good, because it would probably be in that competitive competition or there would be better solutions, and I agree with that. However, in order to be the motive for introducing a bill from some promotional competitions, I simply cannot do that. It is true, however, that it is possible to invest in a certain degree of disappointment that an appropriate measure has not taken place before; I will not hide it or deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u50	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Let me introductoryly say that I will support the law of course. Apparently, this government is completely incompetent. We've heard live transmissions about what happened to the government's not sitting. Parliament comes with bad legislation and, of course, the coalition has to prepare and make laws. I therefore welcome Mr Trofenik and his proposal for a law that we can deal with here today. If this coalition supported any other draft legislation tabled by the opposition in the past, the situation in this country today would be at least slightly better. Of course, with our amendment, which we are currently discussing, this law would also be improved accordingly. It is unseemly that each director of a small state firm at the end of the month or at the beginning of the month receives a significantly higher salary than the President of the Government. And someone is three, four months in a single principal's place, leaving him and becoming a consultant, and like a director or a consultant, he gets a higher salary than the Prime Minister. And, of course, that's rude. I also agree with all those colleagues who say that these salaries and ratings of managers should be public. In particular, where the State is the majority owner and where the State is in one way or another, with guarantees, with various assistance, it helps these companies. Of course, this law is just one step. In my opinion, we would have achieved more if, in the past and even today, we were thinking about revising the disputed property in Slovenia, all from the time of independence onward. And even if we were to consider that some of the assets he acquired under strange circumstances might be confiscated. Of course, with evidence and strict respect for the rule of law. On the other hand, we find that today we are stepping from one anomaly to another anomaly. These awards to bankruptcy managers and winding-up managers are really rude, shamelessly high. And as we have heard here today, some of the names - those are the names that in the previous country - the previous system, the current country - have been re-destined to the present system of privileges. And as long as it's like this in this country, we can't hope for any greater change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u52	I'm guessing there's still interest. Check-in is on. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u53	When I spoke about the fact that the criteria that were chosen were not the most appropriate, I spoke about the fact that the simple association manager did not prepare this for the crisis situation. Well, you should also read from the connotation. I argued that it was also problematic to refer to them, because the association manager did not write a criterion for only one part of the managers who would eventually receive some assistance based on legislation which would be adopted substantially later when these criteria were adopted by the National Assembly. Here are time-stamps that don't go together. I was talking about the fact that they did not adopt intervention laws, as was claimed today and as is true. It's an intervention. It's not a system law. I didn't want to argue with that. I just wanted to say that I think it would be better and better if it went into width, into systemicity. There's another problem now that we're separating good and bad managers. Unfortunately, I did mention it before, but I didn't mention it like that. I've read this in support of this law, which says it's bad managers. And if these are bad managers, then we should have certain criteria, which of those who are fighting today to survive, are bad and who are good. We don't have that, so I think it's all over and we should somehow avoid this failure of the director.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u54	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I must say on behalf of myself that I will be happy to support the law because it is a good first temporary measure in regulating this area. I stress that this is the first step in this direction, that it seems important to me to say that it is temporary and that we must at the same time resolve the other dilemmas that arise in this area as well as in other areas. One crucial question that comes to me. Of course, I cannot support the amendment, because it pays the President of the Government can't be an absolute meter in this country, and certainly not at pay. In particular, other effects and results need to be looked at. Excesses must certainly be eliminated and prevented. An important question to me is where will we find top managers to get us the Slovenian Railways, say Elan, Mura and someone else? We must also arrange for their salaries to be superstandard if they are to be superstandard and successful as well as the results of their work. That's what you say, he pays up, but only in parallel with the results. I think it will also be necessary to think about how we will take a step further, because listen, also what happens to salaries in some public institutions, specifically in health care homes, when the numbers are the end of the month, which exceed 10 thousand and up. This is also certainly not the case, which is not normal, according to the results of the work. But I'm warning you, there's another danger. In many of the world’s countries, the regulation of the salaries of managers did not take place because managers were always one step ahead and found a wide variety of operations as they cut off their share of the cake earlier, and that in that gross payment at the end of the month he was not seen. That is why I think that our country and the situation, too, are mature, that, as soon as possible, we are fairly and fairly taxing the property so that whoever has more will also pay more in our common treasury. These are the dilemmas which, of course, open up to me on this issue, but the beginnings are promising, good, they are going in the right direction and that is why this law will also receive my support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I had an outside job. Are we talking about Article 13? Just let me. Not yet, I'm sorry. I'm calling it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of the SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, the representative of the government! If the government has decided to deal with the managers, of course, that's her right. But if it's effective, of course it's another thing. And if she doesn't hope to say it, and she does it through one of the sent groups, that's her right too. But I'm not sure that's going to be a success. I will support this law, but as I said, I'm not sure this will bring about success. In fact, if the amendment we propose in Article 13 is not adopted, then I hope to say that this matter will be semi-professional, that it would even limit to amateurism, that it is very populist. I'm not sure the intentions are exactly the right thing to do. In fact, if, in this restriction, or whatever you call it, overpaid salaries, higher personal income, or whatever you call it, you do not include bankruptcy managers, liquidating managers, the board of SID banks, then we have not achieved what we would have achieved and what would have been effective. We can take a measure that is intended for ourselves, but we do not achieve the essence. If we want to restrict anything, we must also put these groups, which we propose in Article 13, together. Now let me make a comparison. What is the difference between the ones we are limiting, that is to say, those are members of administrations, directors of certain companies, that is to say, the wages of institutions, these small institutions are not being saved anyway, it is irrelevant that we talk about this, it is not being resolved at all, but it is only larger companies that are owned by state and administration. What do these administrations do now that you want and support in the government this proposal, because this is your proposal in fact, you want to limit wages, what do they do? They run the company, they say, they have to take care of the business and then the wages of these workers, so we'll limit it here. Now what do we want? What does a liquidator do? He collects the remaining assets of a company that's already dead and then sells off this property or whatever, I don't know, puts it in storage, if he can or anything. Now you will say that this is the work of the liquidation manager more important than, say, the work of one manager. How many workers should the liquidation manager care about?Oh, my God! How much?Oh, my God! For nothing. The question is, can he get them together the kind of retirement that comes out of bankruptcy? One manager takes care of a thousand, two thousand, five thousand, eight thousand workers, for having a job, based on a job they can evaluate on the market, and with their product they get a salary. Not first, but first, work. So, he's got to lead well, so we're going to limit his salary. All right, I'll support that. I will support this law. But why not the bankruptcy managers or the liquidation managers?Oh, my God! How much wages and how much work must such a bankruptcy or liquidation manager provide?Oh, my God! Or if you want - the board of the SID Bank. But whose resources do they have in the SID bank? Yeah, with the state, of course. But for them it is not what we said before that we must all share the same destiny. I agree. That's why I support this law. However, liquidation managers - they do not need to share this fate. They're what? They're above managers, they're above the system, they're above the law; what, I don't know, the board of the SID bank? They're above the system. They are not concerned with the good management of the company or the good situation in society, they are not subject to restrictions, they are not considered to share the same fate. They are not on the same boat as everyone else, like all other citizens or like managers who care about healthy and living companies who have to take care of work and that. So that's what you've accomplished?Oh, my God! Who did you hit now?Oh, my God! The one who still cares about the wages of the workers who are still in the companies. For those whose companies no longer exist who run, say, bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, they are not to share the same fate. And now let me back that up. Although I would be afraid that the information officer will start chasing me, but since this has been published in one of the Slovenian journals, I don't think there will be any problem. For example, the bankruptcy manager in ABC Store won 75,000 Euros, and the same manager in Citrus received 156 thousand in addition to the same manager in the Windows of the Covenant another 55,000 prizes. Then another bankruptcy manager in Elan received EUR 233,000, and another again, or the third in the Vrhnika leather industry 202 thousand. And one in Vidmo 346,000. Yes, please! What are these people doing? How many people have to provide for work and pay! So they don't have to share the fates of everyone else. But you went for the managers. I do not advocate them to understand each other, so I support this law that has been proposed, but I ask you who has a more difficult job. I also agree with this, which has already been said today, that probably no one would have protested by Mura workers and workers if their manager had a lot of pay, and they would have a job, and their social security would have been guaranteed, and they would have got a salary; I think so. Now it will be the one, for example, if Mura goes bankrupt and the manager over the company, and he will not be subject to any restrictions. Yeah, well, please, let's get a little bit of a "collecting" here. If the government intends to achieve such measures, then I am not surprised that we have a 9% drop in GDP in this first quarter towards last year's in Slovenia; in Europe it is not so far from this. However, with such measures, we will probably get right there - over those who still care that companies are doing well and that workers have wages, we will now get away with it, and they will be humble to do what we want, what this government will want. Those who are practically not responsible for anything else that has to sell what's left on the mountain are boundless in their incomes. Gather round! This is part of the solution you have proposed, and I will support it, but accept this amendment if you want to have a comprehensive solution. And I'm not even sure she's complete, so we could add something else. But certainly this is our proposal, which we add to this law, better than without it, without this amendment. I wanted to give you a case, and I hope you'll all understand that the work of a manager is much harder than that of a liquidator. But the winding-up managers are digging into hundreds of thousands of euros, and no one's asking questions. Some manager who takes care of, say, 8,000 workers, and now we're going to start disciplining them on the cross because they have too much pay. All right, we can limit them, no problem, let's just give it all, that's all. Far from it, but let's put it all in this basket, under this legal framework. Accept this amendment, and this law will be significantly better, and you can say that you wanted to solve the matter complex, even if it was temporary, no harm. But in the way that you are now showing and looking, you will not achieve the point and will not convince anyone that you want to solve a matter, step on it, or whatever you call it. I will support this myself, but this is not complete; the amendment would be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. As far as the amendment talking about, I would say, time constraints I wonder whether some of the wages of managers are high or not, whether they are high only in times of financial and economic crisis or not. If we believe that some of them are too high, some of them even excellency, as has been said several times already today, then I believe that this law needs to be enforced, unlimited validity, is said not only for the duration of State guarantees, but this law should apply without a time limit. I also agree with my colleague Petan, who, in his debate, spoke about the fact that senior or management of the state SIT bank should also be counted among the debtors and, as already mentioned today, that amendment should also cover the high payouts of bankruptcy and liquidation managers. If we support this amendment, I think the marriage will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you. Once again, the application is under way. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u63	The amendment to Article 13 proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be absolutely supported by the Slovenian National Party. I'm not going to repeat the words spoken by the pronouns, because that's true, because that's absolutely true. In these times of crisis, once again, if it is a war, it is a war for all. It is also true that the difference in the responsibility that the difference in labour, in the quantity and content of work, would give particular emphasis to the second paragraph of the amendment to Article 13, which reads as follows: "This law shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." The difference between the proposal, which is in law, is to delete and apply until 31 December 2010. Here is the essence of this amendment, at least for the Slovenian National Party and for me. Once again, it is easy to put up with five people since 1998, five people have earned and rewarded with 2.2 million euros, and it is not the devil that I do not know how many managers in a year and a half and will be rewarded with a salary of 12 thousand 449 euros. And it won't be 12 thousand 500 and there won't be any tax. No problem can last a year and a half. They can't get that much reward if they want to, in today's economic state. And then the story will go back to debauchery. This amendment, colleagues and colleagues, is worth reading it at least once more, to try to include it in the context of the articles of the proposed law that we are talking about today and to support it all together. It gives someone justice. He's giving it away. And something else, as we speak, about this amendment, about the awards of managers and the awards of managers in insolvency and forced liquidation procedures and the awards of members of the board of directors of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. Take a look at the data, and you will see that the first paragraph of the amendment to Article 13 is still very strong. Things, you know, they have to be proportionate. It means equal responsibility and equal reward for all. One big mistake that led us to where we are today was that this shift of proportionality did not apply, it did not apply to the relationship, the reward, the successful manager and the rewards of the workers. That's a major mistake. The manager's award was a total of 100 workers' prizes for a successful job, which enabled this manager to do so, and I can call them once again a big prize. And this worker didn't get even two. There's a significant difference here. And with such a law, we will begin to seek these relations, including with the amendment to Article 13. If you are successful, be successful, all of you, if you are not successful, no one should be rewarded for failing. Please look once again at Article 13 and the amendment to this article and let us help together to form the law that Willi has once again tabled, with all due respect, that we will gladly accept it and that it will be complete or at least approximately perfect.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u64	Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will personally support the law myself, as well as the Slovenian National Party, even though in my opinion it is again one of the types of fire laws, if I put it that way. I have a feeling it takes the government too long to figure out what's wrong with our society. Now that I'm not gonna say to myself, all the managers, many, dishonest managers have seized the assets of businesses, now this law is coming when it's practically too late, but better now than ever. Amendment to Article 13. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't agree to it. As proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think it makes sense that this law is also applicable to managers in insolvency and forced liquidation proceedings, as well as members of the board of the Slovenian Development Bank. For I see no reason why this law or law should not be applied to bankruptcy managers. All of us Members come from certain local areas. All of us in those individual local areas know the situation better, I know it better in Murski Sobota, say, in Prekmurje, as someone from Primorska knows it. And we all know all those bankruptcy managers, and I'm gonna tell the people who are already hyenas. These are the people who come to the burning business and pick up the last thing that's left. They're picking up property that's actually, not because of the workers' fault, failed, but in most cases because of the incompetent managers' fault. Thus, they serve fine money at the burning of businesses and with the pain of all those workers who lose their jobs and who are then more concerned only by the social ministry. Managers in insolvency proceedings or bankruptcy managers, so to speak, are actually receiving, in the past, abnormally high amounts. These go into hundreds of thousands of euros. I see no reason why we should not tax such incomes or even think they should be prevented. There should be some kind of control over such a predator and greed. I understand that the bankruptcy senate is, but I tell you, back in practice, because in us on Murska Sobota we know exactly the few bankruptcy administrators who, in ten years, have suffered the pain of people who lost their jobs, have become rich. People wonder, they're powerless. All they have to do is be left with us Members, who want to do so, and we really need to present it in public here, and we expect all our colleagues and colleagues to understand it. I don't know why the bankruptcy Senate usually, by the way, confirms all the decisions of these bankruptcy managers. I don't know, it's one practice that's been in place so far. I hope it will be nice if you accept this amendment to regulate some control over the work of these bankruptcy managers. You know, it's a lot of money, it's equipment, it's about evaluating equipment, it's about selling this equipment. So these are the opportunities that bankruptcy managers, at least those who do not have very good ethical qualities, and most of them, as I have now heard among the debaters, can make very good use of them. And there's damage again. Even at that burning point, at what's burned, from what's earned, of course, in a semi-legal way, not to say in any other way. So, in any case, I will support this amendment to Article 13, and it would be nice if this was also permanent for the future. Because I don't think the bankruptcy managers are going to make any special changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I think I owe two explanations, given the final debaters. The first point is that the Government has adopted recommendations to reward members of management and supervisory authorities in all state-owned enterprises. According to our information, most of these companies followed the recommendations and fully respected them, both in the salaries of managers and in the awards and meetings of the supervisory boards. This has been in force for several months. Another matter you have highlighted is a matter that relates to the awards of bankruptcy managers. At the last stage of the preparation, the government has a law governing bankruptcy procedures and liquidation, and it also intends to address the issue that you have raised, that is to say, the maximum possible amount of the remuneration of the bankruptcy managers. We want to bring this in through systemic solutions, and this is also one of the reasons why we do not actually think it makes sense to regulate it in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you. I note that no one wants to discuss the amendments to Article 13. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - 2. DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HIPOTECARY AND COMMUNAL COMMUNICATION LAW, IN THE context of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Madam Mag. Helena Kamnar. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. The Law on Amendments to the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond is, according to our judgment, primarily necessary to remedy certain shortcomings in the applicable law of 2006, which, in our opinion, prevents this instrument from coming to life to the full and in fact bring results that were expected even when this law was introduced. We estimate that there are some shortcomings in the law in force that occurred at the time of the entry into force of this law. The main two shortcomings, which are also addressed by the proposal for a law, relate to the method of valuation of real estate. The law only provides for a mortgage credit method. This medota is a relatively difficult method and needs to be introduced separately, so we introduce two other methods into the amendment of the law, namely the mass valuation method, which, according to the legislation adopted after the enforcement of the Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act, is already possible for use, and the method of accelerated market value. In addition, we note that the costs of valuation of real estate are relatively high and that this also leads to the lack of interest on the part of banks for this instrument, so we assume that the use of these three different methods, including the mass valuation method, will significantly reduce the valuation costs and thus accelerate the introduction of mortgage and utility bonds, which could, of course, lead to larger and cheaper, especially longer-term financial resources to provide housing loans and, of course, to housing itself. We therefore propose that the proposal of the law before you support the achievement of the objectives already planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The new Law on Mortgage and Municipal Commitments will receive weekly support from Members of the DeSUS Group, and we would like to draw attention to the connotation in which it appears. Surely it is not possible to overlook the direct link, I will say, the novels of this law with our other housing policy, which is either not bad or is bad for a long time, and nothing shows that we will change anything in this area. This law itself will not be able to make much difference, but it can be one of the elements that will help. The situation is such that we have an unusual ownership structure of apartments, houses. Unusual in terms of comparison with other European countries and, of course, that we are dramatically lacking in dwellings which are intended for those which, in the present situation themselves, cannot buy or provide. So housing policy is certainly one of the key areas, whether it is economic or social, whether it is a financial or even an anti-crisis aspect. The current policy is an unusual state, so we estimate, just perpetuir, nothing changes it much. I'd say we're just re-establishing what's not best. We have, for example, some 650 million incomplete apartments. We have ambitions or built 400 apartments at a high price on the Hill. We have a situation where we don't have housing for young people, we don't have housing for older people, and we don't have housing for those who just have such monthly income that they can't afford it. These high prices will likely also cause high rent prices, and since people will not be able to afford them themselves, the municipalities will be the ones who will have to pay very high subsidies because they are legally entitled to them. In this, I would say in this unfocused housing policy, this proposal for a law that we are considering today, which we will almost certainly adopt, is welcome. It cannot cut down significantly into wrong or poor housing policies, but it can do a little bit for the reasons that Mrs Secretary has also listed, because it is about making it easier and safer to invest free resources, because people will be able to get even easier to obtain housing loans. But there will probably be a lot more to be done, including in the field of our tax policy, so that the accessibility of dwellings to residents and residents of Slovenia will be improved and brought closer. Since we are assessing that this amendment to the law has little to do with what we want for our citizens and citizens, namely better access to the basic housing condition, i.e. housing, we will support this proposal in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u73	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Kamnar, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian national party supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds. No matter what it says about the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is essential to support the fact that, since 2006, when this Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond is in force, it has not yet come to life in practice. I hope that, by adopting the proposal for a law amending the existing Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, it will come to life in practice. These are changes that make it easier for banks to issue mortgage and utility bonds, but in this case we see another light in the Slovenian National Party. Through the proposal of this amendment law we see the possibility for young people, the possibility for consumers, the searchers of apartments easier the way, we see easier insurance. Although one of the principles of this law is very doubtful, it is the principle of mass valuation of real estate for residential property. Of course, this principle of mass valuation is a time-consuming component because it means that purchases, sales and these developments are more rapid. On the other hand, they can be a double sword because they can be very subjective. Unfortunately, the crumbs of this element, we do not know this content of mass evaluation and we cannot decide on it. However, I think it is right that, with the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, we give the State, banks and also people the opportunity to make certain content more rapid, simpler and, finally, more economically, more logically, more realistic, and hopefully, such results after the adoption of this law will also be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Once again, a pleasant greeting to the few present. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will support the amendment of the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond. This will make it possible to carry out the activities of banks in the area of refinancing mainly of housing loans, which I think is extremely important. With these amendments, we will also realize the purpose of the law already adopted in 2006. This law thus brings good potential solutions for the release of credit crunches in these uncertain times. From our point of view, a substantial change in the law is taking place in the area of property valuation, since banks will be able to use a cheaper version of valuation or the so-called mass property valuation method. By doing so, we can hope that banks will come more easily to refinance credits, which would lead to cheaper and, above all, longer-term financing for the purchase of housing. Other changes are also important, such as reduced conditions for the authorisation of mortgage and utility bonds, as well as the extension of the period of authorisation from one year to two years, and rules on the replacement coverage of assets and so on. As we are most pleased to see what has been said in the introduction to the proposed amendment of the law, this law will make it possible for our banking system, on the one hand, to have easier access to resources to refinance credits, thereby causing cheaper and longer-term loans to be made to buy housing or housing for the population. In particular, in these acute situations, I think it is important to stress that this is important because young people find it difficult to obtain favourable housing loans in particular. With such moves and such changes of laws, we can certainly credit the Government with success, as it can be attributed to smaller, but real, measures that can significantly mitigate the crisis, not just waiting for the so-called big rescues, big words, big measures, packages or the like, which can or may not be carried out or publicly insolvent. Perhaps in the end, I would only have a brief comment on the very explanation of the law, because it is stated in the assessment of the situation, quote: "This law has not yet come to life in practice, it reminds us of some systemic shortcomings." I certainly wouldn't want to open other dilemmas. Here I say that it is essential that we today and in the future, when adopting all laws, be careful that we adopt legislation that is, of course, feasible in practice, which brings concrete solutions and does not make procedures difficult, and that later we also monitor the proper implementation of the law, which, of course, gives such a law the right to apply, the right weight and, above all, the effects. And in this law, it's about housing effects, and it's certainly worth all our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond was passed in 2006, but in all that time it did not live could also be said that somehow it did not get caught. However, this is a law that can be extremely important for housing financing. In the face of the current financial and economic crisis and when we have a high demand for housing in Slovenia and, on the other hand, a large number of completed or unfinished and unsold apartments in the construction sector, it is of course necessary to find appropriate solutions in order to encourage and enable long-term housing loans with a relatively favourable interest rate. The mortgage bond also represents a very favourable and appropriate investment for surplus economic cells, in particular those institutional investors with long-term assets and at the same time looking for a safe investment. Thus, mortgage and utility bonds will play an important role in improving the financing of housing and commercial property and financing of public law persons and, on the other hand, institutional investors would be able to invest their assets in long-term and safe financial instruments. In particular, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds decided to supplement the law and facilitate the issuance of these mortgage and municipal bonds, thereby improving the financing of housing and commercial property and the financing of public law. Therefore, the aim of the amendment of the law is to properly regulate the area of mortgage and utility bonds in the legal order and practice by slightly loosening the terms of the issue of the bond and the requirements of the guarantee. In doing so, it should be stressed that the introduction of the amendment does not increase the risks of holders of those bonds, which constitutes a very high credit quality securities. We also support the fundamental principle of the proposed law, and this is the principle of the security of mortgage and utility bonds or the safety of mortgage and utility bonds holders, as the Secretary of State said in her introduction. Let us hope that the amendments to the mortgage bond law will encourage the issue of these bonds and, as a result, allow longer-term housing lending with a more favourable interest rate, thereby making the law operational. Therefore, the Social Democrats Group will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, again. The Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act, which was adopted at the beginning of 2006, allows for the structure of a specific type of bond which, as an extremely safe investment, is intended to attract, in particular, institutional investors with free long-term assets due to the nature of their business. The law regulates the mortgage and utility bond as bonds whose coverage is secured on the basis of the assets covered and whose holders have a priority in the event of bankruptcy of the contractor in the event of payment from that property. For there is a separate asset that is intended to pay the bonds and which bankruptcy procedures are not intended to affect. As it is said, this law has not yet been brought to life in practice due to the demanding and costly valuation of real estate, which is reflected in the high costs of valuation of real estate that banks would have had if they had decided to issue mortgage and utility bonds. Therefore, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements provides for amendments that will facilitate the issuance of such amendments to banks. The funds collected by issuing mortgage and utility bonds will be able to invest in housing financing, which, due to lower risks and cheaper resources, can become more cost-effective and even longer-term. Institutional investors, however, will have the opportunity to invest their assets in long-term and safe financial instruments. The law also allows banks to use the general market value by using the methods of mass valuation of real estates in accordance with the Law on the mass valuation of real estates of May 2006, which is a lower cost of valuation of real estate for this purpose. In addition, the amendment of the law loosens slightly the conditions for issuing the bond and the requirements for the guarantee. Due to new and appropriate solutions, we will support the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Willi Trophynik on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Despite the adoption of the Mortgage and Municipal Commitments Act in 2006, this has not yet come to life in practice, although it is of paramount importance for housing financing, as it allows long-term housing loans with a relatively favourable interest rate and a relatively favourable relationship between the value of the loan and the value of the property while allowing long-term safe financial investment. In Slovenia, banks still use the same financial resources to finance housing credits as other long-term loans, which in some ways limits the lending of housing construction, so changes in law are important for encouraging banks to issue housing and utility bonds and thus to obtain adequate financial resources to finance housing and commercial property. Since, following the adoption of the applicable Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate was also adopted, the proposed amendment of the Law also allows the use of mass valuation methods to determine the value of real estate and thereby reduce the valuation costs of real estate, which were also one of the reasons why the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds had not been implemented in the past. The proposed amendments to the law allow the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bonds to finally be experienced in practice, so we will support it in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE PAYMENT SERVICES AND SYSTEMS LAW under the regular procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Master Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be as short as I can. In the light of the Internal Market Payment Services Directive adopted in 2007, we need to revise the regulatory regime in Slovenia governing payment services. The essence of these changes is to establish harmonisation of payment transport not only within individual countries but throughout the European area. As a result, the old Law on Payments is hereby repealed and replaced by a new law. The only thing that remains of the old law is the Agency for Public Records and Services and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments. Otherwise, the law interferes with the following series of amendments. The first set of amendments relates to payment institutions in the sense that the range of payment institutions is substantially expanding to companies that can also deal with other transactions. The second set of issues concerns the regulation of relations between the paying institution and its user. The third set of questions concerns compensation for payment services. The following set of questions at the time of execution of transactions and at the responsibility of the payment service provider, as well as the responsibility of the payment service user. Other issues are then resolved, from the supervision to be carried out by the Bank of Slovenia to the establishment of a register of payment institutions to be maintained by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services. I propose that the draft law, which is supplemented by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 6th session. 6. The draft Law on Payment Services and Systems submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration was considered by the parent labour body. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The Service has formulated specific comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 7, 17, 19, 20, 84, 87, 88, 116, 158, 238, 240 and 241. As additional material, the amendment proposal of the Association of Banks of Slovenia to supplement the provision of Article 237 of the proposed law was also transmitted to the Committee. Under the proposed law, the amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, the Zres-Nov policies, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia on 19th, 84th, 116th, 134th, 144th, 158th, 166th, 236th, 2338th, 240th and 241st paragraphs. In its opening statement, the representative of the Government drew attention to the definition of the amendments tabled, which the Government fully supports, as they address, inter alia, the shortcomings highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service. In the course of the additional presentation of the opinion of the Office, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled take into account most of the comments and some additional explanations were made in writing at the working level of the representatives of the Government and of the Service. With regard to the amendment proposal, as proposed by the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the representative of the service pointed out the inadequacy of the text of this proposal relating to subsequent amendments to the law. The representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia did not object to leaving this part of the text, which the Committee took into account in the drafting of its amendment on the basis of this proposal. The Committee thus drew attention to the comments of the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of the amendment proposed by the Association of Banks in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and adopted the amendment to Article 237. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined and adopted Articles 19, 84, 116, 134, 144, 158, 166, 236, 236, 238, 240 and 241 respectively. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you again, Mr Vice President. Mrs Kamnareva, we meet so often that I don't know if you are in the National Assembly or I in the Government, but it's no big deal. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on payment services and systems in second reading is a necessity. As we understand in the Slovenian National Party, the main purpose of this proposal is to replace the Law on Payments and to transpose this Directive into national regulations by 1 November of this year. I understand the proposal of this law like this. First time. Within the internal market, the situation of the payment system is unsatisfactory. Another time. The rules on payment infrastructure in the community are, by 1 November 2009, so understood in the Slovenian National Party, national, and since these rules are therefore national rules, each country itself decides on these rules, are not adapted to the single market, the result is that each person is "cashing" as much as he wants. There are countries that charge up to 5% of total card sales, etc., in short, this system has so far been based at national level and has been very different everywhere. The aim of this law is to strengthen cooperation between national markets and to ensure a level playing field and to establish a single market for payment services in the internal market of the European Union. And I hope that this will be the case with the adoption of this law. There is a lot of news that we are not used to in Slovenia or that those involved will not make these changes so easily, but I hope that they will go smoothly; namely, there is a new concept of payment service providers, which can be banks, and a novelty, payment institutions or Slovenian institutions, which are also the biggest innovation in this law, which is being complemented immediately. Therefore, the payment institutions, institutions as a novelty in addition to payment services, are also intended to carry out other economic activities. What I regret not to know is that this law in the form of the articles it has, of course, cannot be studied and known by a normal person under all other laws, but I hope that it is in line with the directive and that it brings unity of the payment system in the countries of the European Union. In addition, there is a news that will be interesting and which we will have to follow, also that this bill is governed by the Register of Transaction Accounts, which is no longer to be maintained by the Bank of Slovenia, but by the Agency of Public Records and Services of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's news, too, which I'm sorry, is unknown. I hope that all these logistics systems will be qualified by 1 November 2009. We note, however, that from the date of the entry into force of this Act, in addition to the Law on Payments, the provisions of the Act will cease to apply, of course, which will be allowed to apply until 31 October of this year and later new developments will have to apply. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which is coordination, I stress once again, with the directive and the unification of the payment system in Europe, we support. At the same time, we clearly warn the Government, we note today that we hope that all levers and all logistics necessary for such major changes are necessary, and I think they are large enough to be established so that after 1 November there will be no difficulties in uniting payment systems, which, of course, can then lead to regular and extraordinary meetings due to these problems, which we already have too many. I hope everything goes as it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. The current Law on Payments was adopted in 2002 and amended in 2004. This comprehensively regulates the execution of payment transactions and provides adequate protection to the holders of the transaction accounts. This law also regulates payment systems whose primary purpose is to transfer funds between accounts. Nevertheless, there is a new bill before us, the Law on Payment Services and Systems. The main purpose of this law is to implement the new directive of the European Community in our legal order. In the preparation of the new directive, the European legislator was led by the unsatisfactory state of the payment system within the internal market of the Community, as the potential of this market remained untapped. The rules on payment infrastructure are national and not adapted to the single market. As a result, the current payment market is too expensive and the effect is limited. Moreover, the lack of competition in the market harms all users of services. By adopting this law, we will strengthen cooperation between national markets and ensure a level playing field and thus enable the creation of a single market for payment services in the internal market of the European Union. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you so much for your word and again a nice hello. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposed law as it updates and improves the effectiveness of the existing payment service system. Furthermore, it seems important to us to emphasise that the law introduces and defines new concepts into the system of operation of payment transactions, which, of course, upgrades and improves it. The most important change is certainly to extend the range of payment service providers to so-called payment institutions, thereby increasing the number of providers and thus strengthening competition. Of course, these new providers will have to meet exactly all the requirements that ensure the security of the transactions themselves and, most importantly, the security of the money of the one who benefits specific services. In our parliamentary group we also support the amendment to the law initiated by the Association of Banks of Slovenia. In doing so, let us stress that we welcome the new rationalisations and solutions in this area, since, as has been explained, a so-called universal payment order will be introduced as a single payment instrument as of 2012. Therefore, it would, of course, be pointless to restrict and impose additional costs on payment service providers in the execution of payments by means of an instrument, a special rate, since this special rate will definitely be abolished over time. It is also important to say something about the main reasons for the preparation and adoption of this Directive, which is certainly an unsatisfactory situation of the payment system within the internal market of the Community, as there is a potential for this market to be unused. It is also important to regulate cross-border payments, a small number of existing cross-border payment systems of fistula, a lack of critical mass and operate with much higher and higher unit costs than national systems. The result is that the current payment system is too expensive. Consumers complain about the impact of fragmentation on them as their access to products operating throughout the European Union is severely limited. Moreover, the lack of competition on the market also harms retailers, as in some Member States payment service providers charge retailers up to 5% of total sales with payment cards, which is certainly too much. We also welcome the objectives of the proposal for a law on strengthening cooperation between national markets and ensuring a level playing field, fully regulating the conditions for the provision of payment services, laying down requirements for access by a payment service provider other than credit institutions, of course, and introducing a specific permit for payment institutions, establishing rights and obligations of payment service users and providers in relation to the provision of payment services; and laying down conditions for the establishment, supervision and termination of clearing companies and laying down rules on the management and design of payment systems. However, the main principles to be realised by this law are: the principle of greater competition in the payment service market, the principle of safe, prudent and transparent business and the principle of consumer protection. These are, of course, things that still improve the quality of life of users in this area. That is why, of course, all the support will be given to our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u93	Hello, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, everyone here is present. The proposal for a law on payment services and systems governs a number of areas relating to the provision of payment services. The proposal for a law, as has already been said several times today, is mainly due to the need to comply with the European Union Directive, i.e. Directive 2007/64-EC. The adoption of this law will allow for enhanced cooperation between national markets and ensure a level playing field so as to enable the creation of a single market for payment services in the internal market of the European Union. The law will also fully regulate the conditions for the provision of payment services, lay down market access requirements for payment service providers other than credit institutions, and introduce a specific authorisation for payment institutions, thereby laying down conditions for the establishment, control and termination of payment institutions. The rights and obligations of users and payment service providers relating to the provision of payment services will also be determined. They will also be prescribed: a condition for the establishment, operation, control and termination of clearing companies. Rules will also be laid down regarding the design and implementation of payment systems. As already stated in previous discussions or in the presentation of views, the main principles are three that are being implemented by the proposed law. Therefore, the principle of greater competition in the market for the provision of payment services, the principle of the safe, prudent and transparent operation of payment service providers and the principle of consumer protection. The principle of greater competition in the payment service market will be ensured by new payment service providers governed by the proposal for a law. In accordance with the Law on Payments, the implementation of payment transactions or the management of transaction accounts is permitted only to banks, savings banks and savings and credit services. However, as a new category of payment service providers, the bill defines payment institutions which will be subject to less stringent conditions than those applicable to banks and which will be able to carry out other economic transactions in addition to payment services. The principle of the safe, prudent and transparent operation of payment service providers will be implemented through a number of requirements relating to the status structure of payment institutions, with provisions governing the Bank of Slovenia’s authorisation to provide payment services as payment institutions, the management system and the system of internal controls of payment institutions, the protection of users’ cash assets and the management of business books and annual report. The principle of consumer protection will be ensured by extensive and detailed rules laying down the obligations of payment service providers to provide information regarding the provision of payment services, the provisions governing payment service contracts and the rules on changes and termination of contracts, the rules on the execution of payment transactions, as well as provisions governing the peaceful resolution of consumer disputes in respect of payment services. In view of all the above, and given the fact that this is a matter of coordination with the directives of the European Union, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a bill on payment services and systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you for saying that again. The main purpose of the proposal for a law on payment services and systems is to comply with European regulations or directives to be transposed into national regulations by 1 November 2009. The law will regulate the unsatisfactory situation of payment systems within the Community's internal market, and more competition will be given on the market of payment service providers, which we welcome in our SDS Group. However, some doubts arise because these same claims were made in 2002 when the current Agency for Payments was abolished, and today there is neither the spirit nor the hearing of any competition, at least as far as bank costs are concerned. In our parliamentary group, we support the objectives and solutions that are in law, so we will support the proposal for a bill on payment services and systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. And also Mr Joko Godec on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia regarding the Proposal for a Law on Payment Services and Systems is as follows. The proposal for a bill on payment services and systems is a comprehensive proposal which, at systemic level, provides comprehensively for the area now governed by the Law on Payments. The proposed law therefore follows these requirements according to our assessment, so our support will certainly be involved. We also believe that in a work where the directive allows discretion on the part of the Member States, that is to say, to decide on their consumption, the drafter of the law has appropriately incorporated this provision into our legal and payment system, so that we also support the implementation of those provisions. As has already been said, the proposal for a bill on payment systems, which, at systemic level, fully regulates the uniformity of the payment system at European Union level by ensuring a level playing field by consistently respecting the principle of consumer protection, will be unanimously supported by DeSUS Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will be held on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Non-Materialised Securities - Shortening Procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, the law is very short, and it is also linked to compliance with the European Directive, which regulates the rights of shareholders of companies trading in an organised market. The essential change proposed by law is that the regulation so far assumes that the participant must have a deposited share at the Assembly. The Directive explicitly prohibits such conduct, and therefore we are also amending the law which introduces the provisions of the directive. The amendment of this law is closely linked to the amendment of the law you have already adopted in the past month, namely the Company Act, so that both laws, in fact, fully implement this Directive together. I suggest you adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. At its 6th meeting, on 24 June 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on non-materialised securities submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, proposing that the law submitted be considered and adopted in a simplified procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at the 10th meeting. 4. decided that the proposal for a law should be examined following a reduced procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The service initially commented on the need to harmonise the moment of implementation of the proposed Act and the amendment of the Company Act, which introduced the cut-off date on which the proposal for a law is referred. The Service also made specific comments on the provisions of Article 4 and on the title of the draft law. Under the proposed law, the amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, the Real New Policy, the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, on Articles 4 and 5 and the title of the bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its opening statement, the representative of the Government drew attention to the definition of the amendments tabled by the Government, which are fully supported by the Government because they address the shortcomings pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. In addition, in view of the delay in the application of the provisions of the Company Act with regard to the 1 September 2009 cut-off, it is also necessary to adapt the application of Article 4 of the Law. In the context of the additional presentation of the opinion of the Office, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled take into account most of the comments and some additional clarifications were made in writing by the drafter at the working level of the Government and the Service. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups by Articles 4 and 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report has been prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the addition of the Law on intangible securities, as it is a matter of harmonising legislation with the European Union Directive. In accordance with the Directive, we must delete or substantially amend Articles 66 and 67 of the Act on intangibleised securities. This will remove the condition that a shareholder must have deposited shares or transferred to a natural or legal person in order, of course, to participate in a congregation of certain shareholders. In this way, it will be possible to allow the right of the shareholder to participate in a meeting of shareholders and to vote in respect of all its shares, independent of any requirement that its shares be deposited or transferred to another natural or legal person, or that they are specifically entered in his name. Only a written certificate issued by a member of the clearing-deputy company on the securities account to be delivered to the company shall be sufficient for the exercise of the rights to be exercised not later than two days before the meeting of the assembly. We believe that the proposal and adaptation to the directive improves the situation in this area and will therefore receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Harmonising our legislation with the European acquis is one of our commitments when we join the European Union. We also understand the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on intangible securities, which transposes Directive 2007 36EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 into our Slovenian legal order. In particular, it is the exercise of certain rights of listed shareholders of listed companies in depositing shares for participation in a meeting of shareholders. We consider the changes to be good, as they have adopted a uniform approach in the European legal order in the exercise of certain rights of shareholders of companies when they are quoted on the stock exchange. The implementation of changes in the European legal order is foreseen by the beginning of August 2009, and we will therefore support this law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you. The proposal for a law on non-materialised securities which prohibits participation in the Assembly by depositing shares, which means aligning the rules with the regulation laid down in the European Directive, will be supported in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. And also Mr Franz Jurša on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Even on my part a nice greeting to everyone. Membership in the European Union requires us to implement European directives also in the field of intangibleised securities. It's two directives. The first relates to the finality of the preparation of payments and securities settlement systems and the second on the application of certain rights of listed shareholders of listed companies. Due to the deadline for the introduction of these rules, we will also need to amend our law on non-materialised securities. According to our assessment, the European guidelines have been appropriately introduced into the proposal by following their purpose. The main solution to the novel is to remove the condition of deposit of shares due to participation in the shareholder assembly. The Directive provides that the right of the shareholder to participate and vote does not depend on the requirement to deposit shares and therefore prohibits the requirement to deposit shares or any other request to participate in the assembly. This is also the only reason for preparing changes and supplementing the basic law, which we also propose to support in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second draft law. The decision on the bill will be made on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is the consideration of the draft law on the supplementation of the Law on Income, following a reduced procedure. In doing so, I would like to remind you that we will now proceed with this point, but at exactly 2.00 p.m. I will interrupt this point and also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, as agreed at the College of the President of the National Assembly. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by mag. Radovan Žerjav. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Rad Likar, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u111	On behalf of the proposer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u112	As Vice-President of the Committee, instead of Chairman Mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its meeting on 24 June 2009. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which commented on the need for an editorial correction of Article 1 and, in relation to Article 2, a reference to the retroactive application of the legal provisions which, according to the Constitution, must be made to the public benefit and which is not clear from the introductory explanation of the law. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not, in principle, object to the proposal for a law, as it may be appropriate to upgrade the measures taken by the Government in the area of the treatment of payments for restricted areas or OMD payments in the income system. In particular, the Government emphasises that, in view of the finding of comparable and equal treatment of all the debtors this year, it would be appropriate to redesign the new comprehensive system of taxation of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, at the same time to amend the Cadastrian Income Identification Act in order to regulate the assessment of cadastral income in an objective and transparent manner. The Government further recalls the decision it adopted on the basis of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which considers that payments for a more difficult production situation should be understood as agricultural environmental payments, thereby discharging income as such. In the opinion of the Government, therefore, the provision of Article 2 of the draft law, which provides for retroactivity for 2008, is not necessary. The Government also recalls the necessary harmonisation of the text of Article 1 with the purposes and objectives of the law as explained in its introduction. It would be more appropriate to refer to the 37th and not to the 36th Article of the Council of the European Community. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which support the proposed legislation. At the meeting of the Committee, he submitted written proposals for an amendment to the Committee to Articles 1 and 2 which, on the basis of written explanations by the Government and comments by the Legal and Legislative Service, had been prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The amendment to Article 1 should correct the reference to the correct Article of the Council Regulation of the European Community to remedy the substantive and editorial shortcomings and the amendment to Article 2 proposed deleting retroactivity. The Committee has discussed and decided, before considering the individual articles of the draft law on a proposal from the Social Democrats' Group in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration. The explanation of such a proposal stressed that the Government is preparing, in accordance with its normative programme of work, a comprehensive amendment to the Income Act to be introduced into the legislative process in the autumn, and that it is also a matter of regulating the sensitive and complex area, including the issue of taxation of farmers, so it is better to leave the necessary legal solutions to the competent ministry. The solutions contained in the bill are, however, in line with the Government's intention to regulate these issues, but it makes sense to fully regulate the area of income rather than to adopt previous partial solutions. In the debate on the proposed decision, the bill only strongly opposed this because the proposed solutions were to be agreed with the Government, which also reflected its written opinion and the amendments to Articles 1 and 2. Among the discussers who supported the proposed decision, it was stressed, inter alia, that the proposed legal solutions were not necessary, since they were unnecessary for 2009 for those who had submitted an objection, namely, new decisions would be issued on the basis of a government decision. The same situation was also in 2007 and the government's action at the time was not based on a change of law. The question was also raised as to whether the proposed law was needed at all, given the fact that the Government had already taken action last year and this year by adopting an appropriate sub-law of the Minister. If the answer had not been given at the Committee's meeting, it could be concluded that such action by the Government had so far not been the appropriate legal basis and therefore would have exceeded its powers. [[...]] Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give my word to the proposaler of the Magi Act. Radovan Žerjav for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The compensatory OMD payments shall be eligible for those farmers farming in areas with limited farming opportunities: mountain-mountain, mountain, karst, hill-mountain areas and areas with environmental limitations. These payments are intended to offset the costs of production due to difficult production conditions, with a view to creating better farming conditions, ensuring the proper processing of agricultural land, preserving the cultural landscape and settling such areas. This year, on the basis of the determination of the average amount of subsidies, there was again a higher tax on those receiving these OMD payments. We have therefore tabled in the SLS Group a proposal for a law supplementing the law on income, proposing a clear exclusion of OMD payments from taxation. Taking into account the OMD payments for flat-rate calculation of assigned subsidies on the surface is an additional burden on farmers farming in areas with very difficult production conditions, which is contrary to the objectives and principles of the Income Act and is, as such, extremely unacceptable. It is also undeniable that the areas in these areas are most vulnerable to growth. Moreover, in these cases the situation in the cadastral region is the most absent from the actual situation. Why, then, did we propose in the Slovenian People's Party that the Income Law should make it more clear that the OMD payments are exempt from taxation? While the Income Act already provides that income from agri-environmental and forest-environmental payments is exempt from taxation, there are still different interpretations of what they are and what they are not environmental payments. The OMD payment is fully conditional on compliance with the standards for the environment, safe food, animal health and welfare and taking into account the principles of good agricultural and environmental performance. The OMD areas are defined in accordance with European national rules as areas of special public interest and, as such, have received compensatory payments under the rural development programme in the second axis package of measures, i.e. environmental payments. It is therefore not disputed to us that OMD payments are environmental payments and should be exempt from taxation as such under the applicable Income Act. However, since we do not want the taxation of farmers to be left to interpretation again next year, we suggest that you support the proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act and that this uncertainty be definitively eliminated. As a proposaler, I therefore expect you not to support the decision proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because this is the only one that has emerged as a result of the fact that the proposal came from opposition types. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. We certainly agree with the spirit, content and proposal of this law at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In the years following our independence, we achieved a remarkable achievement that we lost 100,000 hectares of quality working surfaces, a little more than half of which we walled, the best, and the poor second half of them took away the forest. We therefore, of course, attach this to the spirit in principle, but we believe that these matters in the field of income need to be regulated in a comprehensive manner within the whole of the law, not in part. Therefore, at this point, we will join the Government in thinking and agree that this moment is not the right time for regulation. In the near future, however, we expect the entire income system to be clarified and regulated. I am pleased that the Government does not, in principle, oppose the proposal, but emphasises, and therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree that, according to the normative plan, there is a provision for amending the Income Act also in this part concerning taxation of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities. The current mode of taxation of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, including verification of exemptions, needs to be fully changed in the direction of a fairer system and equal treatment, for example in the taxation of subsidies, the elimination of averages, of flat rates of all debtors. In addition to the amendment of the Income Act, there is also an amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law, which will be more difficult, and it is certainly necessary to regulate this area as it is necessary to ensure that the assessment of cadastral income is carried out in an objective and particularly transparent manner. In addition, the Government has already taken certain measures in the area of processing payments for restricted areas, which is necessary and good. An important decision has also been adopted, based on the Ministry of Agriculture's interpretation, which states that payments for the more difficult production conditions must also be understood as agri-environmental payments, which, of course, exempt income. We also understand that in a time of crisis, which is undoubtedly still felt in agriculture, the Government accepts such an explanation, but we expect this area to be clearly defined once in the near future, i.e. which payments are considered as agricultural environmental payments and as such in exemptions. This is mainly the issue of areas with limited factors and related payments. If I finish. The only substantive problem or disagreement is, therefore, whether it is necessary for this to be recorded in the Income Act at the moment, or perhaps it can wait for a change to the Income Act, which the Government is already preparing and planning, since the Under-Law of the Minister of Finance has already been adopted. We believe that, or even should wait for a comprehensive amendment of the law and that, of course, there is no need at this time to require immediate and rapid changes to the Income Act in just one particular case, so in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats believes that a systematic and decision-making approach to amending the rules on the taxation of basic agricultural and forestry activities is needed in all aspects. Income is taxed on the income of natural persons acquired or achieved during the tax year. All revenues and profits shall be counted as income, irrespective of the type and the form in which they have been obtained. In accordance with the objectives and principles of income, it is therefore necessary to determine whether a payment constitutes income and to determine exemptions in accordance with the principles and objectives of the tax policy. It would therefore be appropriate to redefine exemptions for income tax from agricultural and forestry activities in a new and comprehensive manner, since it is only in this way that it is possible to ensure a comparable and equal treatment of all taxable persons for income, as well as equal treatment between undertakings for income from agricultural and forestry activities. We have been informed, not only of the Members and Members of the Coalition, but of all Members and Members, that the Government has instructed the Ministry of Finance to prepare, as soon as possible in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Income Act. Its irrefutable aim was to redesign the system of taxation of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities and to prepare a proposal for a new cadastral income law as soon as possible, which will regulate the assessment of cadastral income in an objective and transparent manner. We have also been informed, not only again, that the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the Government's normative programme, is already preparing a proposal for a new law on income and will be submitted for consideration in late August. The Social Democrats' Group is also aware that the Government has already defined itself to implement the Income Act in the field of tax treatment of OMD payments for 2008 and has established a basis for a uniform understanding of the definition of agricultural environmental and forestry payments, which are exempt under the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Income Act. In this context, on the basis of the interpretation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is responsible for clarifying agricultural rules and considers that payments for a difficult production situation should also be understood as agricultural payments, the Government decided that, as such, they should be exempt from income already this year. This also makes the proposed amendment to the Income Act, which provides for the retroactive determination of income relief, unnecessary but also problematic due to its constitutional dispute. By the way, let us say that the proposed supplement to the Income Act was 2.e, Mr Žerjav, a member of the Government, when there was an identical complication last year for the income assessment for the OMD payment, but he did not make sure that, last year, with such a supplement to the Income Act as is now the case for this year, he had eliminated the different understandings of Article 26 of this Act. Given that the Government will table a more comprehensive amendment to the Income Act, which we will be able to deal with at the September meeting of the National Assembly and because the acute problem of the 2008 OMD payment tax is in fact resolved, while for 2009 the amendments to the Act will be resolved so that the complications will no longer occur in the parliamentary group, we believe that our decision not to support the law is fully justified and reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I'm breaking this agenda. With the interrupted agenda, we will continue tomorrow according to the final agenda of tomorrow's agenda. I am also adjourning the 8th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock. Thank you very much.
