ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Nice greeting, Minister Katarina Kresal, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Vasja Klavor from 3 p.m. on, Mr. Janez Janša and Zvonko Černač. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Initiation of Procedure for the Complementation of Constitutional Law for the Implementation of a Fundamental Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Inseparability of the Republic of Slovenia, with the Draft Constitutional Law. The draft act was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. I give the text to the representative of the proposalers, Dr Vinko Gorenak, for further explanation of the draft act. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Good morning! So before us is the constitutional law on so-called deleted, and I will continue to present the applicant's position. First, a few words about why we're even proposing a constitutional law. We have been proposing constitutional law since 2003, regardless of whether our party was in opposition, coalition and once again in opposition. We propose it because it regulates the matter created at the time of the creation of Slovenia, that is, at the time when we adopted our basic legal act, the Constitution. We are proposing it because it regulates their status and situation in a correct and fair manner to all, including to the so-called deleted ones. We propose it because it also allows possible compensation to all those who were eventually wronged, of course, according to the principle of individual treatment and verification of the situation and performance, if you wish, of individuals at the critical time of independence and creation of Slovenia. We propose it because it is as correct and fair as possible as the 180,000 citizens who have arranged and listened to the call from Slovenia and its offer at a critical time in 1991. We propose it because it respects the Constitutional Court's decision in principle and principle, but adds a fair choice between the victims and those who speculated. We propose it because it respects Slovenia and the independents of Slovenia if you want, and all those who have sinned against the country of Slovenia at the time of its birth or have possibly bloody hands are excluded. We propose it because it makes it impossible for present and future politicians, with the reasonable conduct of the National Assembly, to speculate on this subject in the future. We are proposing this because it protects the Slovenian financial system from possible fractures. And the legitimate adoption of this constitutional law could be counted among all the anti-crisis measures of this Government. If I go back a little bit to history, let me remind you that this problem has arisen, the problem of so-called deleted, in the late 1990s, although it has its roots at the time of the creation of Slovenia. The period of war for Slovenia, its period of independence was the period when it was necessary to decide whether to stay in Slovenia, to live in Slovenia as its citizens, or to speculate whether Slovenia would remain a single country or not. The vast majority of these people, over 180,000, have chosen the right path. She decided to become a citizen of Slovenia. Among them were some who had not made up their minds for various reasons. Most of them for speculative reasons, some of them for possible injustices, ignorance, or inability to settle such a status. The Slovenian model for regulating these issues was already declared exemplary by the Council of Europe in 1995. He recommended it to all countries which had to regulate the status of individual groups of their citizens in the same way. In 1995, the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva addressed this problem in depth. No question was raised on so-called deleted, but questions were raised about the situation and status of certain minorities. They asked about regulating the situation of Croats, Serbs and so on and not about the issue of so-called deleted. The problem of so-called deleted was first created in civil society, five or six years after independence, at a time when it was already clear that Slovenia remained a separate country when it was no longer possible to speculate. It formed a circle of civil society, formed in the circles of the Helsinki Monitor of Mrs Neva Miklavčič Predan, who solemnly declared such cases in Slovenia 300,000, only to intervene with the Ministry of the Interior has it reduced this number by 100%. We got 150,000 so-called deleted. To re-intervention, the number has dropped to 80,000. With an extra $30,000 contract. In the final stage we received 18.305 and this year 35.671. This problem has arisen in circles, as I said, Mrs. Nevea Nadan Miklavčič. A little later, already this decade, Mr Krivic joined the Peace Institute, and Mr Todorovic joined. The Witnesses were bomb headlines in newspapers that made it uncivilized, and I don't know what kind of guilt it was. May I remind you that Mrs Predanova is the lady who sued Slovenia against the European institutions that sent Slovenia to The Hague in the case of Vič-Holmec, who solemnly stood before the cameras and defended the only convicted state official, Mr Šuštar. Let me remind you that Mr Todorovic is the person who said in 1996: "I did not ask for Slovenian citizenship because it would be non-civilisation." That's the gentleman who's already been paid in the first degree. Constitutional decision and something broader on the Court of Justice 18. 5. 2009, 15.36 for this payphone. Mr. Borut Pahor, our Prime Minister. Decisions of the courts may be subject to criticism by the professional and political public. But they're enforceable. The answer to all those who might criticize me is that I will continue to speak a few words in this direction. One of the courts in Slovenia. There was no war. There was no war on Slovenia, and that's why someone didn't do it. How can a mother who lost her son understand such a decision? How can a woman who has lost her husband understand such a decision? How can such a decision be understood by a child who does not have a father? It's an unacceptable decision, an incorrect decision, but it has to be respected. I wonder where such or other convictions are, such or other convictions for the worst crimes in this country. Apart from the case of Mr Schuštar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, they are not available. If the police do their part, if the prosecution still does theirs, there is no decision of the courts, one or the other. How do we understand the decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of a decision on which I am referring to the need to do something without a legal basis? So admit some status, issue some supplementary decisions, no legal basis. This is a decision of the Constitutional Court, worthy of criticism. How can we understand the decision of the courts, which decide several times that judges are underpaid, on the basis of the fact that hundreds of thousands of unemployed are approaching? How to understand the decision of the Constitutional Court courts prohibiting the referendum? These are decisions that are worthy of criticism, and we must respect them. How necessary it is, then, to intervene in a court of law! There is still a need for constitutional intervention in court, in the fact that we have ten times more judges than the Germans to the number of inhabitants, and the greatest backlogs. How necessary this intervention is! We must respect the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the constitutional majority of the National Assembly can upgrade it, frame it and place it in a just framework to all categories of people. Victims of war violence. Recently, I had a lady who received €8,000 for the three years of Mauthausna. Mr. Todorović at first stage 17, after the complaint, I don't know how much. Mrs Krasniqi - Mr Jelinčič quoted this, I think a day or two ago - I do not know how much, but tens of thousands of euros. Is that fair? That's not fair. And this National Assembly can end this by adopting a constitutional law. On April 1st, we heard some information about this woman, which is why 18 thousand 305 to 25 thousand 671. This will be investigated or investigated by a special committee of the National Assembly. However, we have heard about this booth that the supplementary decisions do not constitute and are not the basis for compensation. We have further heard information from the Minister of the Interior that most of the possible actions are already outdated. A few days later, at the end of April, in early May, the court in Maribor or in Ptuj said: "The supplementary decision is the basis for bringing an action for compensation. Depreciation did not take place on the date of the adoption of the constitutional decision, but began to take place on the date of the adoption of the supplementary decision." So, I don't know, on purpose, not on purpose, but that's what we heard. Let me put it this way. The problem of so - called eraseds is not the problem of those who protect them and those who oppose them. This side was never against them either. However, selection should be made between them. Also to pay possible damages to those who have been wronged. And we propose this by means of this constitutional law. And we'd do well to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak. The draft act was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Dr Paul Gantar, to present the views of the Constitutional Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Commission is in session 1 15. 4. 2009 examined the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft Constitutional Law, which was tabled by the Group of Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, in the National Assembly on 23 February 2009. At the beginning, a proposal was made to set up a specific expert group, in accordance with the practice so far, to prepare an expert basis for the consideration of the proposal. The majority of the Constitutional Commission rejected this proposal as it prevailed over the assessment that the proposed addition to the Constitutional Law was entirely identical to the proposal tabled in the previous term of the National Assembly and that the current section had already given an opinion on it. The members of the Constitutional Commission also received the opinion of the Government, the Council of State, as well as the material chosen by the Constitutional Commission of the previous reference when considering a substantively identical proposal. In the opening presentation of the proposal, the representative of the proposers stressed, inter alia, that the National Assembly is bound by the Constitutional Court's decision only as a legislator and not as a founder, which means that, by amending the constitutional act, it can upgrade the decision of the Constitutional Court or settle a certain matter otherwise. The decision is legal in his opinion and therefore these open issues need to be dealt with fairly and legally. They would set up uniformly for all categories of affected persons, introduce criteria, procedures, decision-making criteria on their status, apply individual treatment, settle the issue of compensation to those who have been wronged, all in the light of the economic capacity of the State, and provide for the possibility of revision of the supplementary administrative decisions already issued. The proposers are also prepared to seek an acceptable solution in the Constitutional process, which would have a specific two-thirds support for all. In its opinion, the Government took a negative position on the proposed amendment, since it should not interfere with the Constitutional Court decision relating to the field of human rights by constitutional law. On the contrary, the National Council supports the proposed amendment as a solution to the problem of the deleted, notably to the amount of possible compensation. After an introductory presentation by the representative of the proposer, the presentation of the opinion of the Government was decided by the members of the Constitutional Commission in the general debate mainly on whether to initiate the procedure or not. Three parliamentary groups have put forward their views on this. The SD Group and the SD Group do not really support the proposal and the SNS supports it. The representative of the Government stressed the way in which individual treatment is ensured and also took note of the preparation of an additional law which will address certain still open issues. Following the general discussion, the members, on the basis of Rule 175 of the Rules of Procedure, went to a vote on the Proposal for a Decision that the Constitutional Commission should propose to the National Assembly that, on the basis of a proposal from the Group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, and on the basis of Article 168(2) of the Constitution, a decision should be taken on the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal did not receive the support of the necessary two-thirds majority of the members present in the Constitutional Commission, since of the 13 members present there were six votes in favour, seven members voting. The Constitutional Commission therefore proposes to the National Assembly that, following a discussion on the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the following decision shall be voted on: "The National Assembly shall adopt the proposal by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, of 23 July. 2. 2009 to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for a decision not to adopt it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Home Affairs Minister Katarina Kresal, to present the Government's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u6	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The National Assembly has repeatedly faced the issue of deleted ones. This time we are discussing whether this issue should be resolved by constitutional law. The Government considers that such an arrangement is not appropriate and I will state the arguments which confirm such an opinion. The draft constitutional law had already been presented in the previous term of the National Assembly, which was also discussed by the Constitutional Commission. Back then, the idea was to solve the problem of deleted persons by constitutional law, subject to serious and justified criticism. The proposal that we are considering today is no different from that proposal. We are already opposed to the draft constitutional law for principle reasons. We cannot possibly agree to practice trying to interfere with constitutional law in the decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to the field of human rights. In a formal sense, the only purpose of the proposed draft constitutional law is to bypass the decision of the Constitutional Court, which means that it is not being fulfilled. Just naming a law as constitutional does not, of course, mean that a particular area can be regulated in contravention of the Constitution or in contravention of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The basic position of the Government is that the only correct way of dealing with the problem is to delete the one established by the Constitutional Court, i.e. by issuing complementary decisions and by common system law, and, more precisely, by amending the existing Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. The provisions of the draft constitutional law constitute, in a substantive sense, ordinary legal matter, not constitutional matter. In democratic society, in the rule of law, what Slovenia is supposed to be, ordinary legal matter is not governed by constitutional law, but by ordinary law. Therefore, we do not support this draft either for substantive reasons. I would like to draw attention to some of the concrete shortcomings of this proposal for a constitutional law. The proposed draft thus provides that a permanent residence permit shall be issued if the affected person makes a specific application within the time limits laid down in this Act. This provision is in direct contravention of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides that the procedure for determining and recognising permanent residence of persons who have already obtained a residence permit should be initiated on an official basis. So not only at the request of the victim. The proposed draft further provides that, in the absence of more than six months, the conditions of actual life are not met. This provision is also in direct contravention of the Constitutional Court's decision, which considers that the absence for a period of up to one year should not affect the interruption of actual life. The proposed draft further provides that the affected person may obtain a permanent residence permit with effect from the date of the decision or decision. This is also contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides for the determination of permanent residence deleted for the period from 26 February 1992 onwards. The proposed draft further provides for the complete exclusion of compensation liability, the non-recognition of all material rights and other benefits until the granting of a permanent residence permit. This provision is in direct contravention of the Constitution itself, Article 26. It represents the automatic denial of this constitutional provision and prevents proceedings before the courts, which are the only competent and professional institutions in Slovenia once again that can decide whether or not compensation is given. Finally, the proposed draft law provides that the Ministry of the Interior must reintroduce all decisions issued pursuant to point 8 of the 2003 Constitutional Decision. It is a grave denial of fundamental constitutional principles that guarantee legal certainty and a prohibition of retroactivity, i.e. the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts. This is contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution and contrary to the very developed judicial crackdown of the Constitutional Court. On the basis of these arguments, it is more than obvious that the draft proposed constitutional law, in its entirety and in its individual parts, constitutes a grave violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the division of power and also constitutes a direct denial of several decisions of the Constitutional Court and thus an unacceptable political play of the role of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you do not support this draft constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u8	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Members and Members of Parliament We have really been working through this to solve the problem we are talking about definitively. Let me substantiate this with some past actions. Following the formation of the Independent Parliamentary Group, in the previous term, we have proposed that, in our view, the four most important problems that need to be addressed within the mandate of the former Prime Minister, Janez Janša be included among the four most important ones. And we wanted to reach an appropriate consensus in this regard, and we would also take into account the Constitutional Court's decision. By the end of the term of office, several attempts had then been made to reach agreement with the Minister of the Interior on a proposal for an appropriate law to implement the Constitutional Court's decision and thus safeguard fundamental human rights. There was no positive response. Moreover, it has turned out that by seeking a broader political consensus, the Minister does not take seriously, nor does he intend to seek more solutions that could be adopted and supported in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court. The government then drafted a proposal for a constitutional law to try to win the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It has thus shown its underestimating attitude towards the Constitution, to the protection of human rights and to the principles of the rule of law. Also in this mandate, the former coalition, in particular the largest opposition party to the SDS, continues its already visible and well-known policy of dealing with the issues deleted. It appears that, from the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, they have learned nothing about how power is legally and in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court to resolve the status of a certain part of the work deleted without the need to adopt a constitutional law. The last excuse was that the previous government has always used the international public as a convenient excuse not to have to settle this issue. In the Group of Members, we are indeed happy and also proud that the ruling coalition has unitedly and resolutely committed itself to solving the problem after many years of pushing under the carpet, after many years of evading and even passing away without curves and circuits. This means in the manner set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court. And in this respect, we completely reject the constitutional law, as it has proved that the problem of deleted persons can be solved without blind manoeuvres by constitutional law. In the Parliamentary Group, we point out that the law's proponents have, in whole, in part or in part, summarized some of the referendum issues or conditions for obtaining the right to permanent residence contained in a series of referendum initiatives and requirements submitted by the SDS and NSI in the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court then found that they were inconsistent with the Constitution. In addition, we note that the solutions at issue are almost in every article of the constitutional law that we have before us. That's why we reject constitutional law. We reject and condemn this kind of policy. In the Group of Members, we would really like to point out that the entanglement of applicants, the need to limit compensation and the need for individual treatment is nothing new. Last but not least, we are convinced that the latter is in line with the Constitutional Court's decisions, and that if there are reasons to do so, we believe that they are not yet there, because the first compensation paid to the victims is not yet legally binding, so that we will agree, of course, within the constitutional framework, which, for everyone who has been harmed by the State's unlawful conduct, gives the right to compensation, which must be in proportion to the damage caused. However, we cannot agree to the fact that we would support a proposal for a constitutional law that is almost at all points contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support all efforts aimed at resolving the deleted problem, but we do not agree that the opposition with continuous legislative initiatives, which are being warned by former constitutional judges, NGOs, the Ombudsman and also many international organisations, are triggering the politicised threats that are being fueled and fed by the pressures of people and are being challenged also by the current crisis situations, which we have been and will obviously also be witnessing today. We will not really support the proposed Constitutional Law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u10	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision of the Constitutional Commission not to adopt a decision on the adoption of a proposal by a group of Members to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed draft constitutional law does not differ in substance from the proposal tabled in the mandate 2004-2008. In fact, the sole purpose of the proposed draft is to bypass the Constitutional Court decision on deleted persons. We therefore also support the Government's view that the only correct way of dealing with the issue is by issuing supplementary decisions, as the Constitutional Court has found and requires in its decision. We also agree with the Government's view that the draft submitted at certain points is not in accordance with constitutional decisions and the Constitution alone. Moreover, the draft proposed Constitutional Law as a whole, as well as in individual works, constitutes a grave violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and the division of power, while denying more decisions of the Constitutional Court. The motions for a draft Constitutional Law in the Minister's intervention showed her that she was not properly implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, and they would even like to circumvent the decision themselves by means of this proposal. Their proposal would cause inequality before the law or worse, inequality in constitutional and human rights. The applicants do not wish to correct the injustice caused by the unequal application of the law on foreigners to the deleted. The removal itself from the permanent residence record did not have a legal basis, so also for the return of the right to permanent residence, according to our own, the legal basis does not need and is sufficient for the Constitutional Court to decide. The fact is that these people have been wronged by the State and must therefore be corrected in a certain way. Decisions obtained by the affected return to their permanent residence so that they can then gradually regain and exercise fundamental human rights. The fact that the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision will endanger public finances makes no sense, since it does not speak of compensation in any single sentence, nor does the Ministry of the Interior deal with it. This invention, which has been made public by opponents of the situation of deleted persons, is intended only to awaken support for those who are living difficult to propose draft constitutional law. In doing so, the public shall be filled with astronomical figures and amounts relating to the amount of compensation. In doing so, it will be specifically in the eyes of applicants for compensation, however, that only those victims of the injustices they like will be recognised. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are confident that citizens and citizens will nevertheless realise that, with respect for this decision of the Constitutional Court, the way of effectiveness is anchored in all the following, with which anyone would try to protect his constitutional rights. If we are to defend and guarantee constitutional rights for all others, there is no reason to deny them to those who have been erased. The same applies to compensation. If it turns out that compensation would come to an extent that would actually be dangerous to public finances, our Group also advocates a decision to restrict them, as we have limited the victims of war violence and many others already in this country. For the time being, there is no such compensation, no one knows for sure, so the fantasy of this is a malicious structure that serves the premier political objectives of some opposition parties who have already been invaded by the electorate, but we believe that they will not be again. Nevertheless, as with other victims of injustice, it seems reasonable to limit the amount of compensation to the extent of the astronomical figures, as has already been said. The eyewitnesses, the blood hands, the anti-invasion action, the evidence of criminals and speculators are lies that have not yet been proved as such to anyone. Therefore, it is not acceptable as a basis to waive the right to regulate the situation of deleted persons. Last but not least, even if all this "pouring" about their guilt was such or a different truth, the erasure was unconstitutional and illegal. Citizens who possess such tales and such ways of punishing unproven guilt in general and collectively must be aware that on a similar list all of us can be found if the gentlemen do not like it and if it ever comes to power, which we must fear, which is unacceptable to us and we will never agree with it. Due to such intentions, intentions and, of course, the statements made by the applicants, our Group of Members of this exhibition cannot, of course, support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u11	The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, of course, these so-called deleted ones will have to be paid. We'll take the pensioners. Not only will they not get those thousands of euros a month, as promised by your president, but they will get maybe 100 euros, because the rest will go into the pockets of the insatiable swallowers who did not want to take Slovenian citizenship at that time. And I propose to all those who were honest and were in favour of supporting the country of Slovenia at its birth, those almost 200,000 to get out of Slovenian citizenship, to simply request that they be entered into the box deleted, because in this case they will be forgiven and they will not have to pay taxes, social contributions, nothing, and they will get money from the state of Slovenia, because we have such a coalition that they do not care about the Slovenian nation, but who "screw in the ass" of anyone who raises the tail a little. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, and that's what we are. This is our country and the voters seem to be rewarding it. So once again, I repeat, dear voters and voters, not a thousand euros in pension, a hundred euros of pension you will have if you are happy and the gentlemen of the coalition will allow you to do so, because they will share the money elsewhere. And when it's said that unproven guilt can happen to any of us. This has happened to me! For 15 years, your communist date dragged me to court. After 15 years, the court proved that I wasn't guilty, but the coalition parties, unfortunately left the province, were "floating" me in court up and down and down and down. And then something happened that changed power, because otherwise, as the gentlemen told me, I would get eight months in prison to get me off the political scene. That's what you do. That's why I'm afraid there's gonna be something else. And when some courts say there was no war in Slovenia, I'm not surprised. After all, Mr Kučan did not declare a state of war and did not declare a state of emergency. Ask yourself, lawyers, what does that mean? We can hang ourselves on the actual situation, not on what someone said, because they were afraid because most of the gentlemen in the coalition then sewed white "cote" together at the time to be bigger flags when they surrender because they came thin. And you were buying the wreaths of flowers to throw them in the tank pipe and sign some white papers, and I don't know what it is. Some of us fought. We fought for this country. And a lot of people lost their lives. But you don't care about that. You don't care about those who were in Mauthausn, you don't care about those who were in Dachau, Ravensbrich, that "you're all shit." But some, wiped out, cheaters, speculators, of course. This law, which we are filing with the SDS, is a law under which the case will be resolved. We'll look into every matter. Whoever the machine fault was, he's gonna get a settlement. And it's a good thing he gets it. But whoever speculated and cheated, he won't. And we will send the one, in accordance with European rights, where it came from. I don't know what human rights we're supposed to have here. Look at Italy, Italy takes care of its interests. Those who break the laws, thank you very much, goodbye. Even the citizens of the European Union get a leg right away and the Romanians get back on the plane and send them where they came from. But no, dear colleagues from the coalition take them home and "further them" and give them your rooms, your kitchens, your wives and daughters to be happy and saved. I don't know what you want. The Slovenian people are not stupid enough to inherit your babbling. And these babblings will certainly be punished in the next election, at least I hope they will. Beginnings. Of course you know where they started. Mrs. Neva Miklavčič Lodan started this. But the lady is a mental patient, this has already been discovered by the English intelligence service, as some SDV agents told me and then slowly "scanned" her from their lists. You take it as a sacred case. I don't know what. Constitutional Court. What about the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court has not been given from God to do what it does to him. The Constitutional Court has no right to judge and judge, they only determine whether it is in conformity or not, and the National Assembly has the right to amend the law, the constitution and everything. And that's the highest organ. I know you'd like to put up some new governor, I don't know how to write, but some old principles to do what you want, and as long as you want. But I think it's gone, and it's gone. The Minister said that the procedures of the old decisions already issued could not be renewed. How's that? If certain facts are later revealed and a criminal offence is to be established, they must be, but they cannot be. After all, if we take this famous, so-called Buto Kresniqi, it is interesting that all the certificates on which her acquisition of the EUR 64,000 was based were based were based on documents issued in the medical home of Dr Adolf Drolc in Maribor. And interestingly, it was in this very house that they discovered fraud when they were selling the documentation for 10,000 euros on which they then acquired citizenship. How is this, interestingly, compatible with one another? But you don't care. You don't care, because if you have to give it to someone, then you'll give it to him. If it's not Slovenian, I'm sure. If he's a Slovenian, you'll beat him over the head until he's breathing or almost breathing, because you need him anyway. They will be breathing out soon, because instead of caring for pensioners, as someone said, let them worry about why certain electrical companies send old people who don't legally find themselves, some 500 euro bills to pay them in one piece right away, or they'll just shut down their electricity. And tell me one single case that some power company came to turn off the power to someone who wasn't Slovenian or who had been wiped out! No, it's not, because they're protected. They have human rights and Slovenians have "fuck" eyes! Isn't it? Fine! You're a beautiful, wonderful coalition, a divine coalition! I mean, embarrassing, embarrassing! And once again, dear pensioners and pensioners, prepare yourself - 100 Euros of pension, if you're lucky, maybe 120.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Perhaps it is not necessary to warn colleagues and colleagues that we will hear many things in today's six-hour debate. A lot of things that will be true, and a lot of things that will be completely made up. I just want to find out that each of us is responsible for the statements he makes, and just think about it, because to interrupt anyone and warn them to speak differently, at least at this point it would be completely unproductive, and I will not start it. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't think you have the right to judge the debate of the speaker. I don't know why. If anything stabbed you and hurt you, it's your business. I was stabbed earlier, I was stabbed by lies, by falsehoods, even when Madam Minister spoke, but I was silent and did not interfere with its implementation. When I got my word on this, I said it. So please, Mr Vice-President, do not make valuable judgments on the thinking of others. This is not just my thought, this is a reflection of at least 60% of the Slovenian population. So please don't do this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. Your proposal was not procedural. However, as President, I have the duty to hold a debate under the agenda item and also to make sure that there is talk about things that are in line with the fact that it is not being offended or anything like that. And I just warned you not to talk about you specifically, because I know that you or any of us will take advantage of this item of the agenda for a number of inaccuracies. Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor as representative of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the constitutional law is a suitable basis for a definitive solution to the problem of the regulation of the status of former citizens of the SFRJ, as well as the implementation of the 2003 Constitutional Decision and therefore we support it. We only regret that the relevant constitutional law was not adopted before, in 2004, when we were among the first to take such initiatives. Only by constitutional law can the mistakes made by ministers of the interior, first by Dr Bohinc, be adequately corrected. With the adoption of the constitutional law, Slovenia once again gives the possibility to regulate the status of former citizens of the SFRJ within three months of the entry into force of the law. The law defines as the basic condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on Day 13. 12. 1990, so on the day of plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This date was also set as a milestone in Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Charter. From then on, all former SFRJ citizens knew that a new country would be created, and another was what they wanted. And they knew that in this new country they had to regulate their respective status, acquire citizenship or apply as foreigners or apply for temporary residence. True, some did not know whether they had seen themselves in this status, but such cases were just a few. It is also right to determine whether they have actually stayed in Slovenia all this time. In 2004, the then Minister of Bohinc reported in the information on the status process when the law was adopted to regulate the status following the adoption of the constitutional provision that out of the 25,000 citizens of the former SFRJ, only 4,200 of them had not yet been regulated, of which approximately 1,500 military personnel. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always supported solutions that would give everyone the opportunity to finalize the status regime, but we never admit it and we will not acknowledge it to the former aggressors of our country. We also believe that everyone, like anyone who wishes to exercise any right, must show their will and make appropriate requests. For all those who have not wanted or demonstrated their willingness to regulate their status in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia at this time, in our view, they certainly do not have any relief in the process, but in particular no compensation. We can assess that their behaviour or better imbalances, their inactions only point to the computational calculation and non-compliance of Slovenian legislation and, if you wish, decisions of plebiscite. In the Slovenian People's Party we also always respect the implementation of constitutional decisions, but only on the basis of relevant laws. The legislator and the founder are in our country under the Constitution of the National Assembly. In view of the different opinions of legal experts recently, we reiterate that we still do not agree with those who advocate the legal basis for the implementation of the so-called 8th point of the contested constitutional decision. We point out that, in paragraph 8 of the contested decision, there is no indication that it is not possible to adopt a constitutional law for the implementation of the decision, and there is no indication that there is no need to establish the actual situation in the process of issuing decisions on permanent residence, which the Administrative Procedure Act imposes in our legal order. In view of the fact that we have never agreed to the decisions in return, because they are also factually and legally impracticable, we also support the restriction or prohibition of redress. New decisions could unduly create a new legal basis for the enforcement of damages. This is irresponsible and unacceptable. We are also convinced that, in this part, the Constitutional Court has neglected or forgotten to assess the consequences for our country or has questioned the economic and political stability of the country. In doing so, we reiterate that we also respect the provision on compensation, in Article 26 of the Constitution, which allows and provides for judicial protection for all those who may have been wronged in the proceedings before the authorities in Slovenia. With the adoption of this law, the final solution would be almost two decades old issues and more than five years of unfulfilled constitutional decision, which, of course, is not the only one that has not been met with us. Remind me, for example, that the Constitutional Court declared the City Municipality of Koper unconstitutional. For this reason, we support the law and expect it to be supported by all Members who advocate legal order and equality in our country and a constitutionally defined division of power into three branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Nice greetings to the Minister of the Interior and to you, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that Slovenia is and must also remain a legal country, so our club is attached to the Government, which believes that such an arrangement as proposed is certainly not appropriate. We have heard many arguments that attach to this today in the opening debates. The draft constitutional law is complemented by the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 13, which stipulated that the citizens of other republics were formerly the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which had the day of plebiscite. 12. 1990, in the Republic of Slovenia a permanent residence was declared and they also lived here, evenly equaled in rights and duties with citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, except in the point of purchase of real estate, until the provisions of the law on foreigners entered into force for them. According to the constitutional law's proponents, the most appropriate way to definitively regulate the situation of citizens of other countries of the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia is indicated. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we do not support the proposal for a new draft constitutional law on deleted issues, because for principle we do not support the practice that decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the field of human rights are trying to interfere with the constitutional law. The only purpose of the applicants is to bypass the Constitutional Court’s decision on deleted, regardless of how the opposition’s colleagues and colleagues appoint a law, which certainly does not allow this area to be settled in contravention of the Constitution or the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, we are sure that the only way to regulate this issue is to issue supplementary decisions, as the Constitutional Court has also found in its decision, by means of a simple system-wide law on deleted ones. The provisions of the draft constitutional law on the meaning of the substance constitute, not constitutional matter, but legal matter. In democratic societies, the regulation of ordinary legal matter by constitutional law is not permissible. The proposed draft constitutional law in its Article 13 also provides that a permanent residence permit shall be issued if the injured person submits a special application within three months of the entry into force of this Act. This is certainly contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides for the view that the procedure for determining and recognising permanent residence should be initiated on an official basis and not only at the request of the injured party. Also in determining the condition of actual life, the draft constitutional law bypasses the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the absence of a period of one year should not affect the interruption of actual life. However, following the draft constitutional law, in the absence of a period of more than six months, the condition of actual life is certainly no longer fulfilled. The provision of the fourth paragraph of Article 13h that the Ministry of the Interior must renew the procedure for all decisions issued pursuant to point 8 of the 2002 Constitutional Court Decision constitutes an inadmissible violation of fundamental constitutional principles, such as legal certainty and the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts. The draft proposed constitutional law, as well as in individual parts, certainly constitutes a grave violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, so we will not support it in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club. We are still firmly convinced and insist on the view that the only real country is the rule of law and such a Republic of Slovenia is and must remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Social Democrats does not support the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, after the conclusion of the debate on the proposal by the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, the proposed procedure for amending the basic Charter will be concluded at this meeting of the National Assembly. First of all, two should be highlighted in our opinion, in order to support this position and also for the public. Firstly, this is a re-examination of the opposition's request to discuss the issue of deleted, which has been carried out very thoroughly in this mandate twice, especially when interpreting the Minister of the Interior and when proposing the establishment of an investigative commission on this issue. Therefore, in addition to other cases, as in the request to address the answer to the questions raised by the Member States and at the meetings of the home labour bodies today, we will be discussing, for the third time in this mandate, almost all day, a question on which all the issues and all the different points of view are clarified, on which we no longer have to say anything new, and in particular, on which we all know that our views are solid, that no substantive debate can change them. The details and minor lies that we will listen to again are no longer essential to anyone and even to the public. So it's probably right to say that we can't talk about the so-called deleted, but that it's actually people who have been erased from the record. This was not determined by any policy in order to win the votes of the electorate, as the Constitutional Court found. No matter what anyone thinks or what anyone says about the function of the Constitutional Court, at least as a fact, this must be taken into account. Another time. It should be borne in mind that this is not a question of citizenship but of the status of a foreigner and its associated permanent residence. It is true that these members, the then inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, did not apply for citizenship. However, I would ask my colleagues whether they had to do so. Could you, therefore, ask someone who really did not ask for citizenship but wanted to remain a foreigner and preserve the rights he had, declare him a speculator, perhaps even a criminal, only because he did not take advantage of the extremely favourable opportunity that Slovenia had given him to become a citizen. Answer that question. The legal answer is not questionable at all and is clear. I don't know what else to use. Whether it is possible to speak of the fact that the Constitutional Court is not at its 8th point and later in its explanatory memorandum, it has made it clear that in cases where the decisions have already been issued and where people already have permanent residence status or foreign status or citizenship status, it has not been recognised since 26 February 1992 from that date, and only that is the meaning of the supplementary decisions, nothing else. And this is what the previous government started and this current ministry is starting. Is it possible to hear that decisions on compensation are made? Decisions shall be taken at the first stage. And all Members and Members of Parliament know that a complaint against a first-degree decision is possible, as a rule, including an audit, and very often also a dispute before the Constitutional Court when it comes to human rights violations, as well as before the International Court of Human Rights. To say that one or two first-degree compensation decisions already constitute a decision on compensation is, of course, a pure deception to the public and Members should probably not do so. Finally, this certainly applies to our decision whether or not we will deal with the issue of compensation separately with the law. All of this is important to repeat, although it is not with the hope that opponents who have been wiped out will still speak differently because all discussions on this issue in this mandate have been forced at the request of the opposition but not at the proposal of the ruling coalition. Because it is important to say that, while the opposition is burdening the Government, the competent ministers and the National Assembly with ever-repetitive non-productive debates on this issue, it also accuses the Government and the government coalition of not paying enough attention to important economic and financial issues and measures to address the crisis. The debate on these issues, on which we have indisputable Constitutional Court case-laws, would therefore have been settled in every legal country long ago. It is requested by those parties who condemn the ruling coalition of undemocratic conduct and usurpation of power. Not to solve the problem that has been embarrassing Slovenia for more than a decade, but to spoil Slovenian elections and voters on the basis of half-truths, as they do on some other issues. In particular, when it comes to the question of a half-lived history, on which some Members and Members of the same parties even call for lustration, rather than renegotiation, but now on different ideological grounds. Another time. It is right to point out in the opening that we will be discussing the content of a constitutional law known to Members and Members for at least five years and which has not changed since the first draft, in practice, not even for a dot or a comma and which we have not only received in this respect but also in the previous term the views of constitutional lawyers on its constitutional compliance, while also conducting discussions on where the barriers to possible convergence of views are. It is correct to say this because I do not doubt that the text of the constitutional law will still be tried today to show, in this case too, how the opposition is willing to cooperate, how it is ready to find the points of reference and how it does not really want to solve this problem in a constitutionally correct manner. Therefore, I should like to point out that the proposed text after all the discussions so far has not experienced any corrections and that we cannot therefore believe that in the next debate, and therefore cannot naively agree to the opening of the procedure, so that the unwillingness for legal correct solutions is determined only after a few months and after repeated full-day discussions. In particular, not because we know and have already presented the views of the applicants. They, of course, not for the public, but told us four times in the previous term, when they led the Government and also the competent ministry, that they could not talk about any solution that would take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, so let's not say about the right of deleted persons to be recognised by them on the condition of their actual residence in Slovenia as of 26 February 1992. Therefore, only limited content is possible for them and they would agree in this respect, but not on the essential issues of the constitutional decision. The Constitutional Law therefore, while it is indisputably just a matter of legal content, deals with matters that they want to settle in the constitutional system. In doing so, it is very clear that they want to change the constitutional basis and decisions that we have already taken 25. 6. 1991. At that time, we also made a clear distinction between the constitutional matter and the law on citizenship and the law on foreigners, and the Constitutional Court always talked about whether the solutions were in accordance with these laws, not with the Basic Constitutional Charter. These solutions, as regards constitutional decisions, were more than democratic and indeed respected the highest standards of human rights. This is indisputable, and we can all be proud of the decision taken at that time to deal with the issue of citizenship. However, only a later practice of implementing the law on foreigners at that time has deliberately changed the good decisions and caused the illegalities that we are facing today. That is why we cannot and must not and must not change the constitutional law, except for one purpose in order to change the constitutional decision. For those reasons, there is really no need for detailed consideration of the articles of the law today. Nevertheless, it is right, especially since the views of opponents of the constitutional law will be re-emphasized and repeated, to highlight some essential issues. Firstly, even on the basis of the ordinary law, not only on the basis of constitutional, necessary and necessary individual treatment of each deleted. And that this is the former government, that this is the present government, and that every law will regulate it. Therefore, it is purely unrealistic to accuse anyone of making a flat-rate decision. It will be decided on the basis of concrete data and individual treatment. Second. The law, constitutional or ordinary, may provide for criteria to be provided for in order to recognise permanent residence and permanent residence in Slovenia in order to obtain this right. However, these criteria must not be contrary to the decisions already taken by the Constitutional Court. We also assume that the criteria can be established, but not explicitly contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is the content of the proposed constitutional law. Third. Any law that is customary, as we say, not only constitutional, can also determine, under strict eligibility conditions, the lump sum or the amount of compensation, but must not contain a provision which excludes any right to compensation without strict conditions, as proposed by this constitutional law. It is therefore not a matter for the coalition to decide any further on the issue of compensation. She said that this moment is therefore not mature, it is not possible, on the basis of one or two decisions of the competent judicial authorities at the first stage, to judge this, but we are firmly convinced that everyone can read this, that any prohibition of compensation is not possible because it would be contrary to the Constitution. Finally, every law, including constitutional law, must not provide that the right to recognition of permanent residence can only be recognised on the basis of a special role, since the Constitutional Court has already decided that this right must be determined on the basis of an official duty. This is therefore a number of issues that can be settled in the ordinary legislative procedure, not by interfering with the constitutionally guaranteed rights and expectations that the constitutional law will not be subject to constitutional review. On the contrary, we demand the regulation of those issues in the ordinary law so that the role and decision of the Constitutional Court can also be respected and that the legislative regime take into account the views already adopted by the Constitutional Court on them. This is the only way to respect the principles of the rule of law, which is the obligation of the national assembly in this case. The protection of the political responsibility of individuals who have caused the unjust situation cannot prevail over the principles of legality and the rule of law. Because of all the above-mentioned proposal to amend the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in our parliamentary group, we cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must protest, Mr President, because you have not intervened. Insistence, duality and hypocrisy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u23	I'm sorry, can you repeat the sentence again because I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u24	I must protest because you did not protest and warn. Indeed, duality and hypocrisy cannot be a value in this House, especially from the speaker's address, as Mr Potrč had previously done. Earlier, he abused the Rules of Procedure and said that he would hear many untruths today. And now, in his speech, Mr Potrč said that some Members and parties were calling for a renewed misinterpretation on the half-lived history, and he was obviously thinking that some parties and Members had tabled a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism for consideration. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mr Jerovšek, this is certainly not a procedural proposal and please, if you can stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u26	It is unacceptable to say in such a way that this is a misrepresentation, to adopt a European resolution that this is a misrepresentation. [[...]] This is a commitment to common human values and European values. And I believe that some are in the way of this value. But to talk about that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u27	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u28	Mr President, such a two-faced performance should be pointed out during the performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u29	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much. You took advantage of the fact that I thought you'd have a procedural proposal. Mr. Yuri, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u30	I propose, Mr President, that you disregard such procedural proposals, because this is a substantive debate, a substantive protest that has nothing to do with procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. I hope you heard what I said earlier. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u32	Good-bye to all of you! I'm sure some who predicted a lot of untruths knew what they would be saying themselves in a few minutes. And for every single thing I'm going to say, I'm also going to present the relevant documents. For this reason, I have also brought even one textbook of constitutional law once for a change with me, which will be a very instructive thing here in the National Assembly. What needs to be put at the heart of this is that we understand the absurd confusion of values that we have been deciding today and, unfortunately, we have been living for a long time, but the following must be presented. For the year of life, suffering in the concentration camp of the Nazis Dachau or the Italian camp in Rab, compensation in this country is limited to about EUR 1,000. For the death of a child killed after II. World War II, compensation is limited by the legislation of this country to EUR 800, and it is the life of a man, of the highest value, of the death of an innocent child. For the death of the fallen in the war for Slovenia, for the one who has given the most for us to decide here today, even on their behalf and on behalf of his relatives, the compensation is limited to EUR 3,200. However, for the one who calculated with Slovenia's independence, EUR 55,000 is in hand. Welcome to the absurd confusion of values that some call the rule of law. Where's justice? Justice as a value. Where's the natural law here? You know that among those currently most suing this country for the highest amounts of compensation, there is also someone who has proven to have participated on the side of the invader in the war for one of the northern crossings, specifically for Holmec. And sue this country for almost a million euros. How much will he get on his hands, ladies and gentlemen, who are here today to defend this because you are rejecting the constitutional law. Otherwise, those who have attacked our homeland of Slovenia as invaders cannot be legally eliminated. And you all know that very well, because that is also the essence of this story. So much as a starting point. Now, what is really the saddest thing about all this talk about constitutional law? When we tabled it, we said on the first day that this was the starting point, our starting point for negotiations and that it was possible to negotiate everything except two things: that it must be an individual treatment, not as you interpret it, does not mean that a decision is written for everyone individually. It is nothing, it is not an individual consideration, but it is for each individual to look at what role he was in during the war for Slovenia, whether he was working on the attackers' side, whether he did anything to settle his status and then decide on this basis. This is the essence of individual treatment, not that each file is individually examined, as you are now interpreting it. And in fact, the relationship to Slovenia and to Slovenia's independence is that separation that separates from each other in Slovenian politics. It's just that it's really a separation. Everything else is an ideological construct. You can't see that any better than that story. The essence of this is exactly the same ignorance and incompetence, which led, respected colleagues and colleagues, to this country's fantastic growth of 7.5%, at the time of the SDS rule, to a minus 8.5% catastrophic decline in the time of just a few months of your power. It's inexpert and ignorance. And exactly the same incompetence and ignorance you showed when you rejected constitutional law. What were really the two key arguments that we heard over and over again when we discussed this at a meeting of the Constitutional Commission, as well as in public talks, in the media? But they were also here in this House many times. There were two of them. First, to quote Madam Minister, I quote practically all members of the coalition: "... that all decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected and not discussed." This claim was made entirely by one of the Zares Members, who even said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court were discussed only in some North Korean or Cuba. This was said at a previous meeting in the National Assembly. What does constitutional law say about this, ladies and gentlemen? It's interesting not to talk a little professional once. I quote Richard von Weizsäcker. This is a long-standing German president, a highly respected international personality and also a great constitutional law expert. What he said about this: "The Constitutional Judges are not apostles and the sayings of the Constitutional Court are not the words of the Holy Scriptures," the end of the quote. That's how the German constitutional profession talks about it. Anyone who wants an additional quote has a very nice textbook right here in the parliamentary library and writes about it as an interesting one, it is clear that the amount and scope of the debate on the decisions of the Constitutional Court is in the general public, in politics and in the sphere of reflection of the democracy of a country. This is quite the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, as we have been listening to the incompetence and ignorance of the ruling coalition for months and months now. Not only will I use German resources, let me tell you what Slovenian constitutional law says, but again I quote from the textbook Restraint of Power of the Constitutional starting point of public law, which speaks of the mutual control of the branch of power, because for everyone who knows at least a little about constitutional law, it is clear: Of course, it is not unconditional and blind respect for the decisions of one or the other foundation of democracy. The foundation of democracy is indeed the mutual control of the various branches of government. And the mutual limitation of the authority of the various branches of this authority and only one is the holder of authority. That's the people. And the people, by the way, at the referendum a few years ago with 94.6% refused exactly what you are now doing vehemently. So much for respect for the principles of power-sharing, because the referendum in a country such as ours is of great importance, especially in terms of power-sharing and respect for some fundamental democratic values. But let me go back to the quote, this is said by one of the former Constitutional Judges of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, who wrote in his textbook on constitutional law: "It is also important to have a general and public criticism of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which can be expressed by anyone: politicians, media, citizens, and, above all, qualified representatives of legal science. This criticism is as effective as it relies on actual arguments" and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, it says here all the time that you have been deceiving the Slovenian public with your lack of expertise and ignorance, which you have shown so vehemently, and you have also shown a low political culture, because the basis of political culture is to check things out before you speak publicly about them. What, then, was the problem at the outset of the constitutional law? There was no problem in the text itself, the problem was that it wanted to avoid constitutional law and everyone on the part of the coalition was actually defending what one of the key people of this coalition said today that today and here these stories should be over, but let's just vote it off and it's over. This will not be over, ladies and gentlemen, this thing will return as a boomerang, it has already returned as a boomerang and will return as a boomerang for as long as it has not been regulated in some legal and just way. What is necessary as a starting point is that the Constitutional Court in that constitution, when it was decided a few years ago, had the most severe effect on constitutional matter itself, on the basis of the Slovenian Constitution, because it had been repealed by Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which was directly contained in the Slovenian constitutional basis itself, since the constitutional basis of the State of Slovenia is not the Constitution, which was adopted much later, much later after the independence, the constitutional basis was the fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, published at the same time as the Foreigners Act, which I quote, which was on 25 June 1991. This Constitutional Law makes it very clear that the status should be regulated, namely, "until the deadlines under Article 81 of the Aliens Act expire." This is a direct Article 13 of the Constitutional Law, ladies and gentlemen. And the Constitutional Court took the right to revoke it. I don't have the words! This is what should be discussed. And without this constitutional collapse, we would never have found ourselves in the position we are in. Only because the Constitutional Court has taken this right that it does not have. It does not have the Slovenian Constitution to reach into constitutional matter. And just because it overlooked some other facts, for example, that each of these procedures could be decided individually, it did not do so, for then this question that was constantly hanging in the air would open up: What was someone doing during the war for Slovenia, on which side was it? That's why we're talking about this story today. And if we don't put this at the heart of this, along with the confusion of values, which is due to your long-standing power of 15 on 60 bases, and yet again, it is not possible to discuss this constructively and professionally. Once we have clarified that it is necessary, urgent and welcome and even constitutionally proper to discuss the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that your lack of expertise and knowledge has led you to your claim that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not being discussed, let us look at another part of your claims. All the time, even at the very meeting of the Constitutional Commission, you have stated the following: I quote first, Madam Minister, that I will not be her Secretary of State, because today he is not at the meeting: "Decisions issued will in no way have any legal property consequences. The issue of compensation by issuing supplementary decisions has no connection." Ms Katarina Kresal's answer to my question of the mission. Mr Potrč said that "the complementary decisions do not have any consequences in the right to compensation", the quote. He had previously debated very vehemently and Mr Žnidaršič, and I will quote him: "The decision of the Constitutional Court does not speak of compensation in any paragraph, nor does the Minister deal with it." So this doesn't have anything to do with the decision-making, so compensation, or anything to do with it. Mr. Žnidaršič, at the meeting of the National Assembly. And so on and so forth. And then what happened, ladies and gentlemen? Only a few days after this was said, a court ruling in Maribor appears. And what did the court decide? In an interim judgment on behalf of the people, the Maribor District Court. It stated: According to the Court’s assessment, the time limit for the expiry of an application for review by one of the so-called deleted persons began to run when the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of 5. 3. 2004 found that the defendant has a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, with the judgment of the Court, you have been declared unprofessional and ignorant. And here's your key argument that you've been repeating for five years. For five years you have measured us, including me personally with Goebbels, whenever we have pointed out that when decisions are issued, when these decisions are served, there remains a basis for new lawsuits, because the deadlines with them begin to run again. And now, a key argument by which you rejected everything we have proposed, led by constitutional law, has been declared by the court to be a lack of expertise and ignorance of the ruling coalition. In any normal country, the President of the Government would immediately replace the Minister, who in this way has become Minister of Unskilledness and Ignorance. But that's not gonna happen. Because, unfortunately, I can show exactly the same quote for President Borut Pahor. He also said that the issue of compensation decisions could not have any connection at all. This will be done by the electorates, ladies and gentlemen, who are announcing the need for him to be replaced, will be done by the electorate. If you do not understand the message of the last elections to the European Parliament, you will understand the following messages so much more easily. Let's go, let's go. Look, even here today, the following was expressed: "We must be afraid that they will ever come into power again." This is a literal quote from one of the representatives of one of the coalition parties. That's all you're talking about, power. It doesn't matter if the species waiting at employment institutions are longer, it doesn't matter if the country has a catastrophic decline from plus 7.6% of economic growth in the past period to minus 8.5% of the decline, a catastrophic decline, one of the worst in Europe during this period. It's important that you buy new voters at the expense of taxpayers. That's important. What I certainly think about this in Slovenia does not need to be highlighted. But I would draw attention to another inexplicability and ignorance - and I will also end up with it - which has reextended and is repeated just like those two points that I have already argued. The compensation should then be limited to some future law. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who at least ever looks into the Constitution knows that there is an article in the Constitution that expressly prohibits any retroactivity of laws in Slovenia. That's what they say, back when these things become legal, there won't be any limit to anything else. Good morning! More than that, I'd like to remind you how these things were going. When we drew attention to this issue, it was said that we are not talking about JLA officers, but it turned out that at the very top of the society of so-called deleted you will find some who have been proven to have cooperated on the part of the invader during the attack on Slovenia. Then it was said, because there will be no compensation, there can be no compensation at all. The Court has shown that this is incompetence and ignorance. Of course, by issuing decisions, the deadlines begin to run again. Then it was said that no compensation had yet been paid, and then there came a judgment that explicitly referred to an deletion, a so-called deletion, which is not really, but you all know that. You said that because she's not yet legal, we've heard that before. What, then, when these things are legalized, will you then propose a law to be adopted to limit compensation? Then, ladies and gentlemen, it will be too late. And then all I hope is that you, out of your own pocket, will pay all the costs that you are now causing. And these are not only compensation costs, these are also the costs of judicial proceedings, because everything is now set up to end in court, and it is also charged with the words of things that you know for yourselves that they cannot do. The court cannot judge what someone was doing during the war on Slovenia if it does not have a constitutional or legal basis. Such a basis could only be established by the adoption of an appropriate constitutional law. At this point, of course, the judgment of the Celje court, which I have quoted several times, was not an enemy army by October 1991 JLA. With such a precedent, how should the courts then expel individuals who attacked this country with weapons? From this very clearly follows something else, which is equally unacceptable and is an absurd precedent. JLA's attack on Slovenia was an attempt at occupation, and the attackers were, under international law, invaders. And by rejecting our constitutional law, you are establishing a legal framework for the first time in the history of Slovenia to reward the collaborators. You won't find anything like that anywhere in the world. And, by the way, that also makes it very clear how huge the difference is between your words and your actions. In any event, even with the help of the textbook, even with the help of the judgment of the Court, all the key arguments that you rejected our constitutional law raise only one question: How will you vote today under this constitutional law? Once again, this constitutional law is just the starting point. If you reject it, you must be aware that, under the rules governing our work, no constitutional law can be imposed in this same case at all, which means that you have imprisoned this only possible protector and thus have taken full responsibility for all the negative consequences, for all costs incurred by judicial proceedings, by issuing decisions, with damages, with all of us. I hope you pay this out of your pocket if you refuse this constitutional law. But if you accept it today, at least leave the way open for us to sit together, as Dr. Drnovšek once called, and look at where we can reach consensus and draw up a compromise text of a constitutional law that could regulate this matter in a just and just manner. If you refuse this option, then it will be an act of arrogance and proof that you insist on incompetence and ignorance as the only leader of your authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the outgoing Minister of the Interior. I'll be brief, given that we've talked a lot about this in the National Assembly. It is true, though, that there are clearly some things that need to be repeated repeatedly, that they are more clear or that they are more understood. With the support of the Government, Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, who has left the Chamber at this time, decided to simply take the issue of the so-called deleted ones into her own hands and to begin to deal with this issue in a way which, in my opinion, as well as in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is not acceptable. In the previous term, a so-called or constitutional law on so-called deletions was introduced into the national assembly procedure. There was no consensus necessary at the time to adopt this law. Today we have reinvested it in the procedure as the Slovenian Democratic Party. In my opinion, this constitutional law at this point in this matter is the only law in dealing with this issue, and above all the fair way to finally resolve the issue of the deleted. But this government and the interior minister obviously made a different decision, even though they never entered into a coalition contract. Never. It has never been written that this issue of deleted persons will be resolved in the manner that the distinguished minister has brought about today. Which means, of course, the voters who gave their vote to them in 2008 in the State Elections were also deceived. But such deceptions, which we probably call now after a new error, are already practiced in this government. Even in spite of the clear will of the people in the referendum on deleted persons, the Minister and this government have decided to take this issue into their own hands and start otherwise to resolve the issue deleted. They decided to start issuing decisions to the so-called deleted ones, which therefore also meant making reparations to those who speculated in 1991, even though some now wish to show politically that this is not evidenceable and so on. The fact is that some of the people we are taking in the package today within the case of deleted were speculating, deciding whether to become citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whether to settle their status or not, because they did not know what would happen to Milosevic's Yugoslavia. In short, in 1991 these people, not all of them of course, but later on, have been a little bubbling up at this country, and today in 2009 they are looking for the same country's ratings, seeking compensation and a return to status, and even though they have previously resisted all sorts of whims, they have been very arrogantly exalted over it and they have not respected it. Of course, that does not apply to everyone. And that is why we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this issue of deleted persons needs to be addressed by constitutional law, it is said individually, individually, not packagely, as the government coalition envisioned. And I won't even think about it. One of those who had already granted him a payment or compensation recently said to the public that in 1991 he did not want Slovenian citizenship at all, that it meant nothing to him that he did not want this status to be regulated, and today the same person is demanding payment from the State for the mucking of this country. And that is also supported by the Government, which obviously through all these acts, which we have been witnessing to for some time in these eight months of rule, is of no concern to Slovenian citizens. On the one hand, we have a situation where people are really in the midst of a major crisis, in the great social distress that comes to us, who tell their stories, when they forgive them, when they have no wages and so on, but this government has only one goal: it is important that they regulate the status of deleted persons and that the deleted are paid their damages. I have no objection to anyone, but I believe that this issue needs to be resolved individually, individually, but not in the package at once. It is necessary to examine why in 1991, when the country clearly called on people to regulate their status, why they did not do so. And that's what we need to ask ourselves and clarify these dilemmas. And then we can talk about who owns the money. I am of the opinion that those who have been wronged should only be corrected. There is no question and no dilemma. However, I cannot take part in the implementation of this plan, which was set by the coalition, that even those who have openly opposed the independence of Slovenia, who have clearly speculated, not only should the status be regulated, but that compensation be paid for it back. I know I've said this thing many times, but I'm going to say it again, because I think it's necessary to do it again. On the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, the Ombudsman's report also addressed the issue of so-called deleted persons. At that time, on a committee in which the coalition has a majority, we voted that the National Assembly should adopt a constitutional law to regulate the situation of the so-called deleted. We have taken this decision. I think the coalition has to seriously ask itself here how she thinks about these things, why she's so separated within herself. I think it would be good for the coalition to reconsider its actions, especially where it gives tax money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Constitutional Lawmakers, Dr. Vinko Gorenak will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. First, a few words on the credibility of the Constitutional Court decision in the context of the division of power in that country. The Constitutional Court is not a legislative authority. The legislature is the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court judges the laws [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr President, now I don't know if Mrs. Bebler has a procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u37	Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The Constitutional Court, however, judges the laws and their conformity with the Constitution. In the present case, the Constitutional Court went over this threshold and put itself in the role of legislator and said that something must be done without a legal basis. That is why this issue is particularly important. And the National Assembly also has the right to say, by law, in our case, by constitutional law, otherwise, as constitutional judges have said. This is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Of course, I cannot agree with what the Minister of the Interior has said when he says that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are being respected, particularly where human rights are concerned and that the applicants intend to bypass the decision of the Constitutional Court. Yeah, but didn't that Constitutional Court decision on the majority electoral system interfere with human rights? She touched it. Voting rights. However, this National Assembly, our predecessors, many of you were present, passed some constitutional law that said something different, as gentlemen of the Constitutional Judges said. I can't accept what the minister says. Even though she is not here, I hope that her colleagues, as far as I know the system of functioning of the Ministry of Interior, are monitoring the work of the National Assembly, ask her publicly: What about her statement on April 1st that the decisions she issues have nothing to do with compensation? And what about that statement in which she claimed that most of the compensation claims had already expired since the date of the Constitutional Court’s decision? The Court of Justice in Ptuj ruled otherwise, entirely different. She also took note of the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Pahor, who, in one of the answers to the question, actually repeated her words, as ministers are preparing the answer, which is natural and normal. But he's offering something because it's not true. Let's be clear about this. Mrs Orzmova spoke about the fact that everything through this proposal of the Constitutional Law is on the table and that each article is controversial. Yes, of course, it has been a proposal since 2003, which can only be discussed if it is of the will. But it's not the will to discuss it. Mr Žnidaršič, you spoke of inequality before the law, that so-called deleted were placed by the Constitutional Law in an unequal position, so they are not the same before the law. The country, as you say, has caused them injustice. And you intend to limit compensation once in the future if there is a threat to the public finances system. The latter is not possible because you know that the legal provision cannot be applied backwards. As for the first two claims that the constitutional law places the so-called deleted in an unequal position and that it has caused them injustice, of course, I ask you if you think of Mr. Todorović, who said that it would be non-civilisational if he applied for Slovenian citizenship, and then something like this, that he is interested in compensation. So, if that's it, then you're wrong or I have a lot of arguments against that claim. Especially if we compare this inequality to that category of people you respect, and so do I. These were, say, closed in concentration camps and today they receive 800, 900 thousand, 2,000 euros. This Mr. Todorovic, as we know, is a few ten times that. If this is equality before marriage, I must tell you that it is not for me and I do not agree with you. Individual treatment, Mr President, you were talking about individual treatment, yes, because I know things, but this individual treatment has led to Mr Todorovic. If that is individual treatment, then unfortunately I cannot agree. Thank you very much, for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel that the opposition, in particular the SDS, has been very bored lately. There are many serious problems, and they suggest that we repeat the story that we have heard and that we have dealt very precisely with it in their interpretation against the Minister of the Interior. This is the exact same story, by proposing today a proposal that has not been implemented and adopted in the time of the Janša government, which I am very surprised to see. They had every opportunity at that time to hold this debate and try to gain the other side of the opposition for the constitutional law. And you didn't do it. And if you didn't do it then, you think you'll do it today when you're in a minority. That's ridiculous. You are aware of this, but you want to continue and continue to warm the same place without any valid arguments. Firstly, Mr Gorenak himself admitted in his performance that they were trying to play the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In other words, you have said that we need a constitutional law so that we can later change or correct what the constitutional judges have determined. This has not happened once, but constitutional decisions have different dates: 1999, 2003. Then there was also an explanation of the constitutional judges, what this meant, because the main dilemma was whether it was possible to implement directly what the Constitutional Court had established. The answer was clear: it is possible. It's possible. And yet, if you remember, the Government of Liberal Democracy, with the Minister of SD, Dr. Rad Bohince, then tried to do so on the midway by means of a so-called technical law, so that there would be no doubt as to whether the legal and constitutionally sustainable path is the path that is the direct issue of complementary decisions. And when it was just a technical law that started in a very selective individual way to solve this problem, the SDS, which proposed the referendum, of course it got it, with very low participation you got it, but in that referendum it proved to be the real side of your manoeuvres. This is not a manoeuvre that would try to ensure the constitutionality, legality of certain procedures, but in this manoeuvre the whole xenophobicity of your discourse has been concentrated. You think, and this is part of your cultural, ideological struggle, I think that human rights tell you very little, but this is your thing, you've tried constantly, and also colleague Irgle has proven today that you're exposing some, in saying, "excessive situations" and you're trying to prove that there was no deletion, so you're talking about so-called deleted. No, it was erased, it's proven. This has been demonstrated both by government authorities and civil society organisations as well as by legal facts, as demonstrated by constitutional judges. It's a delete. Mr Makuc also died because he was erased in Piran, and he had no right to basic human rights to basic health. It's a reality and you like to forget it. That's why you always get the same story about the fact that they were speculators, that they were unfavorable to Slovenia, that they were working with the invader. In 1990 and 1991, were you in the National Assembly or the then Republic Assembly? Me and other colleagues have been here and we remember all the assurances of a new democratic and independent Slovenia to all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia that they will not lose one right. And all those who attended the referendum and voted were confident that they would not awaken one justice. This does not only mean the right to citizenship. But it's also a right not to be defined as a citizen of the new state. It was also a human right. But because of the exercise of this right he should not have lost any further rights, it is the right to permanent residence. And that's all this is about. You like to forget that when we talk about deleted people we do not talk about those who did not get Slovenian citizenship for one reason or another, but talk about those who are at a certain point due to non-information, because of other circumstances, but also because of their own judgment, they wanted to remain foreign residents in Slovenia, with all the rights belonging to foreign citizens. And these rights have been lost. And today it is noted that this lost right has resulted in serious harm to some individuals. Excuse me, do you know what the rule of law is? Any legal State shall allow any citizen, our national or foreign who has been harmed, physical, moral or other harm, to sue and seek compensation from that person. This is the basis of the rule of law in every democratic country. So please don't speculate with this data that you're showing very demogosically, you're operating with numbers, with numbers that aren't real at the moment. You're talking about concentration camps. Yeah, that's what this is about. You know, when we begin, you probably listened, you listened to the minister today when we start on one small matter, and then in one small discrimination, things drag on, things develop, and we get to the concentration camps. In order to prevent further injustices, let us put an end to this story. We finally got the government, we finally got the minister, we finally got the experts who are implementing some constitutional decisions. These constitutional decisions were clear. Today I read that you would just change the law to implement the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Are you dealing with what you're getting yourself into? And there's no way you'll never get a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. You will not get it because two-thirds of the National Assembly and, I believe, also citizens of the Republic of Slovenia believe in human rights, believes in the Constitution, believes in the rule of law and believes in justice. So, please, we are spending taxpayer money here today with a barren debate, and I hope that once again, it will prove to the public how unconstant your positions are, how unconstant your proposals are, and how, unfortunately, boring. Let's deal with the real problems of this society, because we have a lot of concrete problems! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u41	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We are talking about a proposal to start a constitutional law process, but we are trying such nonsense that I am ashamed to be in the National Assembly. Really, I don't know what to say! From yesterday to today - I will stick to the content strictly. Madam Minister - I hope he at least hears me, is not a problem - I will say; Article 26 of the Constitution has mentioned and says, Article 26: "Everyone has the right to compensation for the damage suffered by a person or body engaged in such a service or activity by a public authority or a public authority by way of its unlawful conduct. The injured person shall have the right to claim compensation under the law also directly from the person who caused him harm." Now, listen to me very seriously - and where is the minister to hear me! We have administrative units - you know how much! There were chiefs of administrative units and officials of administrative units who, according to the Minister's statement on the basis of Article 26 of the Constitution, acted unlawfully. If the coalition and the Minister opposes the proposal for a constitutional law, it recognises the unlawful conduct of directors of administrative units, employees in administrative units. When Bogdan Barovich committed an unlawful act in his life - I did it, I am not ashamed, I am human! - I was punished; cash or otherwise. These people still occupy the seats of the heads of administrative units, of professional workers in administrative units, but the minister claims that they have committed an offence and because they have done so, today the state must pay compensation to those people who have been erased from this unlawful act. Easy. Look, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I confess, and I will be in favour of paying compensation to everyone, so that I don't know what kind of guilt it will be if all these people who have done it on the basis of Article 26 of the Constitution - please read it all - if these people are being punished because they have committed an illegal act, all the heads of the administrative units at the head of the Constitution, and all the experts, at the head of the Tribe Administrative Unit, are being punished for their unlawful conduct. When this is done, I will confirm all rights to the deleted. As long as these people, who are Slovenians today, this country, this minister, this minister, will condemn them to have acted unlawfully and at the same time appoint them back to their post and leave them to do so in fact, once again to claim that they have acted unlawfully, and until then we are all really mean to people, because people are not so stupid. Someone who has committed illegal acts is still the head of the administrative unit today, and all the workers are still - they have all been working unlawfully, they have not been punished, and we are pleading, and now, because of the illegal acts of those people who still occupy their seats, we will pay those who have been erased. But--but let's make a deal! Let the Minister abolish all the heads of the administrative units and all the experts when she does, I will confirm and we will give all the compensation, all the rights erased. But if she doesn't do it, then it's a lie. I know that all the heads of the administrative units and all the employees in the administrative units have acted fairly and by law and by constitution, and it is right that they are still there, and this proves under Article 26 of the Constitution that the proposal for a constitutional law is the only right that we can show to the Slovenians today. I expect an answer from the minister: or-or. Either he throws all the heads of the administrative units on the road because they've been doing illegal work and that the confessions are erased, or we can finally erase the deleted ones and leave the situation as it is. And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen. You know, he's said a lot about winning. Mr. Gantar said that we must correct the wrongs of those who were done to them. I won't forget that, I'll save my magnetogram and you put it in the box what he said today. Do you know how many misdemeanors were committed by the Slovenes and the Slovenes? He's the president of the National Assembly, and I'm gonna ask him every day to do what he said, including deleted, if you want. However, for him as President of the National Assembly, which I appreciated until yesterday, and I no longer appreciate him, the rights are only deleted and the Slovenes and the Slovenes are not. We heard yesterday, 170 companies went up the ass. Thousands of people go "in the ass"! They were guilty. And he said, "Finish the wrongs of those who have been done to them." But where did we set them up for the Slovenes and the Slovenes, the injustices that were done to them? Show me one law! Show him to me! And don't look down, that's true. Well, at least admit it. I'll leave the word to my colleagues and colleagues. But indeed, the absence of up to one year must not affect - the words of the Minister. Yeah, well, we can make it up, why not go away for up to two months or be gone for up to ten years? Who writes that? Remember, those who can read, those who like to read. Read the Night of the Long Knives. Read it, you know what it says. What did Hitler do? He burned the Reichstag himself to accuse others. And in the end, it says in the book, or in the movie, "every similarity is just random." There's a lot of things you can think of. I condemn Hitler as the greatest criminal, but also those who do the same or the same in another form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u43	Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, I would like to correct two references from previous debaters, as they are repeated from the meeting to the meeting. In particular, the first was under the syntagma of a valuable assessment that the government coalition deceives voters when they wrote something down or did not enter into a coalition contract and later realizes it or does it not. I would teach my colleague Irglovo that the coalition agreement is made after the elections, not before the elections, and let him take a look at these things or learn a little bit. And secondly, administrative units. When we talk about administrative units, we founded them in Slovenia in 1995. By talking about it, the law was passed in 1994, 1995 started to work and have since been chiefs. That's another thing. I would like to ask the great speaker, Comrade Grims, 521 times in this term I have tried to make it clear that the coalition or we Members are unprofessional, we have no idea that I will not continue to mention. At the same time, he invites us to sit at the same table with him and save and seek solutions. Yeah, with a pedigree like that, it's hard to sit with him and look for solutions. I have heard from the proposaler today that the problem of the deleted has arisen within civil society, six years after independence. Well, that's what I have to say, but it's just a little too much. There was no problem six years after the conquest. At that time, the consequences, the mistakes made by the State six years ago, were highlighted. And all of you today and when you talk about compensation all these years, you basically insist that the country made a mistake. By talking so much about these damages, you admit that the country obviously made a mistake at the time and that in judicial proceedings someone can really get some compensation back. That's why you have to ask yourself why. And instead of making this mistake at the time - as the proponents say, six years after independence - we started to eliminate or eliminate it, we started recording a ten-year follow-up in 1998-1999. And in this political sequel, everyone who has the opportunity to make a public statement at the expense of this mistake made by the State in 1992. So, although we have been dealing with this problem in different variants and variants for more than 10 years, in my opinion much too much, the problem has not yet been solved. Moreover, today we have a new attempt to stall this problem. We have before us a proposal to amend the constitutional law. Two days ago, we set up an investigative committee on this subject, and also by appointing this investigative commission, the proponents delayed for two months on some of the cases that proved not to be the case. However, as I read this proposal to amend the constitutional law today, there is something missing in this proposal, and this is a comparison of the analysis with international experience of how similar problems have been solved in other countries if they have. Always, however, whether it is a proposal for a dentist's law, it is an integral part of this international comparison. Today in this proposal, and I think this is the first time this has happened, we don't have it. And you know that, the motioners, because you have proposed a change to this law. I do not support the proposed law for the following reasons, and I will repeat some things, because, as my colleague Irgle said, some things need to be repeated repeatedly because otherwise it becomes a lie from the truth. This is a proposal which is identical to that of the previous term, the last thing that has been amended, where more than half of the other signatories are signatories to this proposal, is that it is very interesting that neither the comma nor a single sentence has been added in this proposal, not a single word, not a single other position or opinion. So that new half of the applicants signed is cloned by the first half that signed the same proposal three years ago. Since I do not agree with the proposaler's opinion that the Constitutional Court's decision, as you wrote in the explanation of the bill, is legally controversial, and because I believe that the Constitutional Court's decisions relating to human rights cannot affect the constitutional proposal, I am here rejecting the Government's position and fully agree with the Government's position. More simply, I refuse to try - I stress - and I repeat that the Constitutional Court's decision is to be bypassed in this way by a proposal to amend the constitutional law. Or even more clearly: I object that this legislative body, which is this National Assembly, would thus destroy the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Last but not least, you have set up a commission of inquiry simultaneously, where you will be able to identify all the irregularities and all the errors that have been made, but with one small difference. You've only taken a period of the last four years, but the problem has been erased at 16, 17 years of age. And here, of course, the question is whether you really want to put on a pranger those who caused this "forsyth saga" in 1992, those who have committed this mistake, whether you will put on a shameful pillar and try to politically account and discredit all those who have tried to solve this problem in recent years. Of course, I'm more inclined to have a completely different purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u45	Dr. Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u46	Short and gentle, let's be rational! The problem arose in 1995, 1996, but before that the Council of Europe considered this issue to be a model solution and recommended to all others and nothing else. You say it's mean, etc. I'm going to say, the problem of deleted, so-called deleted, could have been solved from 1996 when it came into existence, until 2004, when you were in power and we weren't. As far as the commission of inquiry is concerned. The Commission of Inquiry will count the so-called deleted, which is also right because this is a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u47	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Too bad the Minister isn't here to listen to any other arguments. Well, if I go in the right order. First, what I would like to say is that the problem of so-called deleted is not there because it is not deleted in Slovenia. I've told you many times, and I'm going to say it again today. All those who were entered into foreign records on their own in 1991 were informed of what they had to do to have all the rights - such as those who were normally granted citizenship. I was then chairman of the executive board, and we were responsible in each congregation for receiving this notification. And on that notice, it also said what room they were going to check in with, how much they were going to pay for it -- that was, after the current couple of cents. And to bring one bill to pay the rent, or to pay the rent, or to pay the waterworks, or to pay the canal. One bill! This is said to have been registered in Slovenia for one month, they were granted all rights, but no proof was required to give them any proof that they could speak Slovenian. Nowhere in Europe has any country granted all rights, including citizenship, on the basis of one account which I have mentioned. Nowhere! Because, the distinguished speaker before me, on the other hand, has mentioned what international practice is and I will say international practice. The biggest problems related to similar problems were in the former republics of the Soviet Union in the Baltic countries: Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Of course, Latvia is a particular problem because the largest Russian minority was one third of the population. What did they do there? They didn't give them one citizenship bill, but these people had to change their names and surnames to get the rights to get the documents. They also abolished their schools, of course in a special way, in their language and in 2004, when they were accepted into the EU with us, they did so. They had to change the names and surnames from Slavonic to these Hungarians. That's the only way they got their citizenship. Did anyone change our last names? No, in addition, the media introduced "those soft ones", the other way around. That's why we don't have them deleted and they can't be there. The question of whether someone has made a mistake or if, because of that, I don't know, the anti-state element or any other negative conviction, because he didn't take citizenship at the time - of course, nothing is wrong! Only he cannot now sue the state for the rights he would have received if he had taken citizenship. That's the difference, and that's what we're trying to tell you! No one has to take any rights, but he cannot then demand the rights arising from the right which he has not exercised. That's the problem. Next thing you know, I'll tell you what I want to say. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has on several occasions decided on the so-called deleted, but in those decisions there is always number 18305 written down - I think that this number has always been written. If you're talking so much about the Constitutional Court ruling, why aren't you talking to 18305? The Constitutional Court also wrote this, repeatedly - how could you now violate the Constitutional Court's decision and find that there are 25 or 27 thousand, 25671? How can you violate the Constitutional Court's decision? The Constitutional Court knows! If they wrote that there are 18,000, then there are 18,000 and otherwise there can't be! Why are you here violating the Constitutional Court's decision and doubting that the Constitutional Court wrote something? Because there's something wrong with that logic! You only found this year that the Constitutional Court had written something wrong because it had found them too little! Interesting! You just can't believe it. The fact is - why is such a law needed by us? Because of what is happening now and what you would like with some subsequent supplementary decisions, this is unfair to those 180,000 people who did not have Slovenian roots and took Slovenian citizenship, as the Slovenian state suggested in 1991. It's criminally up to them. At that time, some even measured them, those who did not want to do so. Now they're even supposed to pay them because they're Slovenian. That's gonna be a little hard. And when I said earlier that there were no deleted ones, even so-called deleted ones could not be. I would say that the so-called deleted have indeed emerged from civil society, by the Helsinki Monitor, which I think is now gone. Someone mentioned that he had health problems, that's another matter. But the Helsinki monitor invented "so-called deleted" 11 years ago. This expression began to appear at that time, but before that expression was not present. Interesting! The Helsinki monitor is gone, and I don't know if you'd show up with at least this sort of eraser. This monitor is no longer written about, but it is true that something else is written about Helsinki. Helsinian television also has some similar publishing sites and is spreading on the Internet. And the Slovenian media, of course, is taking on a lot of this. It's interesting that this is all connected to Helsinki. Moreover, such a constitutional law is also needed to protect the financial system from breaking, this is the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia, from breaking. Because the fact is, if what just turned out to be how many so-called deleted persons could sue in court, then we are talking about a few billion euros, gentlemen and ladies. A few billion euros! I hope it'll work out differently, but the procedure has begun, the procedure has run out. You know, when the trial mills start grinding, when this thing starts, it can't stop. If there is, then the law states that it is not possible to act in return. And then it's time for something to be done. Since it's such a big sum of money, then we'll have to take it somewhere. And it is now quite clear to me why the president of the party who promised 1,000 euros in pensions to pensioners and more than that, now that he is in the government, cannot make this happen. Because this government has a priority of so-called deleted and there is a need for billions of euros and therefore pensioners cannot receive thousands of euros of pensions. That's the problem, because the government gives priority to the deleted. There is a lot of talk about human rights in connection with so-called deleted persons. There is a human rights problem and human rights are being violated here because they have no rights, and now they will sue and get money. Ladies and gentlemen, what about those people who lost their jobs? And they don't have human rights? Or do they not have the right to a supplementary decision on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court that they will once be able to get money so that they can live because they may have paid for 30, 40 years in all the cash and all the taxes required by the Slovenian State? They do not have the right to any supplementary decision, but to what thousands of euros, but the so-called deleted ones, who have never, have never paid in any cash register and have not wanted to take on Slovenian citizenship, but who could have received tens of thousands of euros? But these aren't human rights? But these people who haven't lost their job don't have children, their children don't have human rights to get that kind of compensation? No, you don't! Those who have never paid for any cash register in Slovenia have human rights. I'm sorry, but there's a double personality here that just leaves me speechless. This is how I support this constitutional law, because it is the only thing that can solve this matter in a normal way that we are involved in one way or another and will have to solve it. It has to be saved, only moderately, so that pensioners can also have normal pensions, so that workers can have salaries, so that we can have social security without violating these rights because we will have to give billions of euros for the so-called deleted ones. I support this law. Now just to conclude: when mentioned by the distinguished interlocutor, just before me, why did we not arrange this in the previous term? Yes, Your Honor, it has also been mentioned on your part that this law is exactly the same, as it was in the previous term, to the comma. And even talking was about clones, those who weren't in the previous term here. Yes, Your Honor, what greater proof is there that we have tried to do so and that we have proposed such a constitutional law? But obviously we didn't get any support on your side because it takes 2/3 of the majority. Your Honor, we've tried, but we haven't found any interlocutors with you. We haven't found any support for you and now don't tell us what you didn't do or what you made it impossible for us not to do. We tried, repeatedly, but it wasn't on your part to understand. Today, even one of the interlocutors said, you'll never get 2/3 of the majority. Yes, it is said that in advance you prevent everything from being prevented in advance! And you're simply offering billions of euros to a Slovenian country to someone who didn't want to take on a commitment or, if you want, citizenship. This would also give us an obligation as a citizen to pay in some cash registers. No! No! But these people, of course, want to make money like that, so to speak, take it. Our people, who pay, say, forty years in retirement, medical bills, but now they're on the road without pay. There's nothing human rights here. And I just don't understand you here. The only solution to this problem is constitutional law and, of course, I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u49	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I must deny some of the grave lies that have been said in this previous time of discussion. Mr. Petan is lying when he claims that someone is offering billions. We've never offered anyone a billion damages. Mr Petan is also lying when he claims that our President has promised a thousand euros in pension. Never did our President promise pensioners thousands of euros of pensions, the poor have changed that promise, and those who wanted to reduce our results in the elections, those who heard his statement when he said that if someone could have a billion assets, they should have thousands of euros of pensions. Which, of course, was not a promise, and as a lie, it turns into a promise, and we cannot allow it. Come in. It is precipitous, uncultured, slutty and subtly that Mr Jelinčič throws everything, the communist cohort, into the same basket that is supposed to haunt him 15 years after the courts. I was a member of the Union of Communists, just like Mr Janez Janša, but I believe that neither he nor we have ever persecuted him in the courts. He had to walk through the courts on charges that were there, but certainly not on my part, and not allow me to be pushed into any conflict, completely innocent in that sense. It is true, however, that Mr Jelinčič represents a bottom of political culture in terms of expression. And, of course, the way he cares about the pensioners within a point that has nothing to do with this thing. It is important to tell Slovenian pensioners that if they think they will get better with Mr Jelinčič, then he is there and they can vote him. I am sure that, however, DeSUS was far more serious and within a coalition that could or could not do anything, in all governments, he tried to do something for the pensioners, while Jelinčič, who is actually sitting in the opposition all the time, could not and did not do it. And because of this, of course, the obvious is completely unfounded to us in this sense. I would also like to reject all those who say that the speculators were against taking citizenship. Even if they did not want citizenship, their right to permanent residence had been erased, and in this sense the repeated lie could not forever be the one to be held among Slovenian voters as truth. For the Slovenian voters will also slowly find that this law has come into the parliamentary procedure - not to succeed, because they already knew in advance that it will not, but that the same people will be able to repeat the same lies and with criminals and those who have fought against the independence of Slovenia, that they will be able to fight in this basket of those who have fought, even though no proof has been given, also confuse 7,000 women and children within the number of deleted; at least 7,000 women and children who certainly have nothing to do with crime and the fight against self-determination and so on. I don't want to say what bitterness at the expense of the independents of that time, although there is evidence that many did not fight against the independents for independence and threw the rifle - not into the corn, but into the potatoes and went home, but it is already another story and I don't want to repeat it. However, I would like to say that it is rude for gentlemen who consider themselves Christians to be so blotted out just because they do not like it and because it could bring them political points. I think that this is low-level and that it cannot be caught long enough for this to be an important benefit in the next elections. But I support their rights, whether I ever get one vote or not, because I want to support the rule of law for everyone, not just for those who like them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u52	I would like a procedural proposal, if allowed, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u53	Of course, if this is going to be a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u54	Of course he will.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u56	Please note such remarks, insults, to your colleagues. I don't think anyone in this room has the right to insult. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] If you will allow me, Mr Žnidaršič, I very much appreciate you, allow me to say what I think is right for the President to see and to ask of us as the first of the same. [[...]] You have no right to insult anyone. In the debate, my President pointed out that citizens and citizens were promised many things, including a better life, when they were independent. Today they have a worse life and have no rights or those written in the Constitution, that is the right to work. That's what he was talking about. What you've done wrong as a member of a Communist party or a good party, I leave it to you, and I believe it's not the subject of today's discussion either. There's something else I'd like to point out. This independence of Slovenia has also been paid with the lives of individuals. And today to give compensation and rights to those who have been on the other side, including by allowing them to pay bribes to our official authorities in the official departments of the congregation that issue permits - 10,000 euros is necessary for citizenship - is an unsustainable, illegal and corrupt act. And because of that, we also demand what we demand today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. I don't think that was a procedural proposal. But I think Vice President Potts himself said this morning that we will hear a lot of things in today's debate. We're moving on. Please, procedural proposal, Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would like to highlight the reason for my procedural proposal. I think it's right to warn those who use bad words and who insult people without evidence. In doing so, I must say that I have used the evidence myself from the magnetogram to intervene in my debate on Mr Jelinčič's debate is nothing fictional. He attacked me as a member of the party in his debate and lied about our minister promising a thousand euros in pension, which is not true. And that's what I'm trying to say. My proposal is to stop those who speak across and in general, rather than speak concretely and in accordance with the truth - I used it myself from Mr Jelinčič's magnetogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I will be very brief and concrete, Mr President. With regard to Mr Žnidaršič's hypocritical accusations, I would like to ask you to prevent this in the future, as it is becoming a practice in the National Assembly to criticize and thus speak ill of absent persons. So, if such a practice were to be done, I am sure that Mr Žnidaršič, if my President were here, would keep his mouth shut. [[...]] But this is your job, Mr President, to stop such attacks on absent persons, because if it goes that way, we'll all be waiting for someone to leave, and then we'll spit on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm sure you'll follow what you've said, and if the president interrupts you, you'll stop saying bad things. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. First, on behalf of all those who carried weapons during the war for Slovenia, let them express their indignation and disappointment at the benevolence of the words of Mr Žnidaršič, whom I welcome in his departure from the Chamber. In fact, the hints about the cowardlyness of those who stood against the tanks that stood against the planes, I'm sorry, it goes beyond all limits. Here I think that, on behalf of all those who have sincerely participated in the war for Slovenia, on the side of those who have built this country, I can demand that Mr Žnidaršič, for his rude, low-level suggestion in support of the so-called deleted, now I think that it is also obvious to the public as to what is in fact his words, at least to make public excuses. I think it would be in the interests of his client, personally, but especially in the interests of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I make this public, and I expect Mr Žnidaršič to do so, and this is also a fundamental matter of political culture, even if he was condemned in defense of those JLA officers who once attacked Slovenia, but what such an infinitely insulting thing is. Now you can imagine how all those who lost the war on Slovenia feel about their health or the relatives of those who gave the most they could, so on, their lives. Now, let me draw a few points around this story. I could just continue with a quote that strongly refers to what just happened, which is a quote by Professor of Constitutional Law and the author of the Slovenian Constitution right when it comes to human rights, that is Dr. Tone Jerovšek, who said: "Political demagogs who burn for the human rights of some, and others, if only they beat themselves, have come to a very correct decision. Its consequences will be far-reaching; they are already catastrophic for the reputation of the Constitutional Court. No one believes her because she's legally insufferable, except for the blind and the blind. Anyone who does not see attempts to break democracy and institutions will, of course, sleep peacefully." Ladies and gentlemen, this is really what this story is about. One of the key people of the coalition has exposed that political part, so it is not worth adding anything to it. However, it is certainly worth saying hello to the absent Minister at this time, probably waiting for her to write a bombastic speech, as at the time of her interpolation, the day later, of course, with the judgment of the court, her incompetence and ignorance was exposed, since it obviously does not bother anyone in the coalition that it was an important part of her defence that the issue of decisions had no connection with damages. The courts have now decided that the deadlines should begin with the issuance of these decisions and therefore the decisions are a necessary and sufficient condition for the initiation of proceedings before a court for the imposition of damages to so-called deleted persons who are not at all. So much for the expertise and confidence of Madam Minister. I hope that they will write her a nice speech and that she will read it very nicely at the end, as much as she will honor us with her visit to this hall, or she will leave the dirty work to others in the coalition, just as we have witnessed before. I think it's worth taking advantage of this moment, too, to say a few more things about constitutional law. For this is a story which would really be more enlightened in this House, because it requires public benefit. I have previously quoted a quote that is extremely important, because it exposes as incompetence and ignorance all that vehement assertion that decisions of the Constitutional Court are not being debated here, which have also been made practically by all members of the coalition. General and public criticism of the decision of the Constitutional Court is also important, which can be expressed by anyone: politicians, media, citizens, and, above all, qualified representatives of legal science. This criticism is as effective as it relies more on actual arguments, and then continues, it must not only be directed against the saying of the accepted constitutional explanation, but must be directed primarily at certain parts of the explanation. This is said to be the subject of public controversy. I would add another quote from the same textbook, which is very important. It is the principles of the division of power. That's what really lays the foundation for democracy. The special division of power means the introduction of a referendum as a form of citizen participation in the management of public affairs and thus in legislative regulation. This is therefore the constitutional framework of the referendum, which is a valuable democratic acquisition known by the Slovenian Constitution. Now let us put this in the light of today’s constitutional law and, of course, the conduct of those who are being rejected by this law on another occasion. You know that in the referendum, that is, the form, the important form of the division of power, as set out in this book or constitutional law, was voted on by the majority electoral system. However, of course, most Members began shaking their pants in this House so that they did not know what to do. And what happened? Precisely those Members, who today were at the forefront of the fact that they had called for unconditional compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that this could not be at all the subject of a debate, let alone negotiations with a constitutional law, were at the forefront of amending the Slovenian Constitution by constitutional law and it was written down by a proportional electoral system. They have twice violated the principle of the division of power, but the worst part is that they have overtaken the fundamental democratic principle by which the people are the bearer of power, in fact it is the bearer of all authority, all the rest being the exercise of this authority, the sole holder of which is the people. And so much for betraying all those who reject the agreement and talk about constitutional law. What was once said to be vehement? Yes, the text of the postponement did not have any corrections and you would argue that this is an argument to reject it. Yeah, well, please, who said no to the conversation? We offered them the day we put this text in. We said that day: "Everything can be subject to discussion, we are for the principle to be found in an individual procedure, if someone has been really wronged, to correct it, but those who have calculated with Slovenian independence, but cannot benefit from it," I hope that the words of Mr Žnidaršič as one of the key people of the current coalition have clearly now opened the eyes of the public to that very point, it is the benefits of those who participated as invaders in the attack on Slovenia, and of the shame of those who have conquered Slovenia, what Mr Žnidaršič has done in defending the first. It is a shame for the Slovenian Parliament and for the party to which it belongs not to be told. But I'd like to warn you about something else in this constitutional law. The fact is that only by constitutional law can this be settled in a just and just way, the whole of this issue, for all of the same principles and also legally irrefutable, because that law can at any time be judged by the Constitutional Court, even after 10 years, because it also happened by this original decision. However, I do not believe all those who, in so doing, vehemently claim that the Constitutional Court would again take the right and intervene in constitutional matter. Such a composition as it was then, such an ideologically manipulated composition, will certainly never again be at any Constitutional Court of the State of Slovenia, and this is a great happiness for Slovenia, and certainly this right will not be taken by the Constitutional Court to take any right that it does not have under the Constitution, no one will take any more. Now, however, the situation that I am alerting again is extremely complex because of a single provision regulating our work. If you reject this constitutional law today, no constitutional law on this subject can be put into this mandate. Some of you will take a breath over this, czech, her, thank God, we've gotten rid of one topic. You didn't get rid of her. Believe that this topic will be presented much more precisely because it is not regulated by constitutional law. This topic would have long since been on the agenda if Mr Rob had not once gravely insulted Mr Bohinc, with whom we had jointly written a draft constitutional law that had already been prepared for an agreement between the then government led by Mr Rob and the opposition at the time. But then he cut it off, obviously under the influence of the radicals, and that's why this darkness is open, otherwise it wouldn't be this topic. That is also why this experiment is ridiculous, as some of you have made very clear, yes, but that is the only reason this story ends today. It won't end where! This story will now be transferred to the courts, with lawyers serving, those with nothing will require the free legal aid paid by citizens and citizens, the procedures will be long-term, extremely expensive. Even if no one ever got any compensation, in the end it's going to cost the country huge. And this country where you've been horribly deepened by the crisis to minus 8.5% of the catastrophic economic downturn. And in the end it can happen, and it will probably happen, in the light of these first judgments, which are, however, that there will also be payment of compensation. Can you imagine the burden you put on the next generation with inexperience and ignorance? Because it's not really what some of you said, "yes, because this is the same as it was, because everything is the same as it was when you were interpreting against Mrs. Kresal." No, ladies and gentlemen, two things are new: the first is this judgment of the court, which has clearly stated that they constitute the basis of the decisions issued for the actions, because from the date of the service they begin to run anew, because people should not have known before that they were wronged, and now they are declaring that they have been wronged by these decisions. Well, let me show you with a case. As far as I know, one of the key officers who participated on the JLA side in those northern border fights - there, as you know, JLA also gravely violated human rights, shot civilians, were dead, shot at civilian facilities - one of them had long ago regulated his status in Slovenia. That means you're giving him a direct basis for the compensation lawsuit, and we're back there at the beginning. What a death in the war for Slovenia is worth - EUR 3,200. How much will those who have suffered so endlessly be compensated for having been transferred from one registry to another, while those who have committed crimes against the civilian population have participated in the war for Slovenia? A very interesting question, you will agree. That I will not be too long to remain an opportunity for my colleagues to express their views, I am merely quoting to the end. "Dear Mr President, it is time for an agreement, Slovenia needs it, our rule of law needs it, it is a matter of national interest, and it is only right that the parties forget their differences, sit together and try to find a solution. I'm sure you can manage enough wisdom and political power to agree. Slovenia will become a more mature and credible country. With deep respect, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, President of the Republic of Slovenia." This, ladies and gentlemen, is the political legacy of Dr. Janez Drnovska. The point that I have pointed out that if you reject this constitutional law in such a text today, it is unlikely that it will be adopted, but if you confirm it today, the starting point is open for further discussions, this means the possibility of achieving what Dr. Janez Drnovšek has said and what we have called for from the first day on which we have introduced this constitutional law to find some compromise text. If you refuse this option today, then it means not only that your possible vote against constitutional law will now be found by constitutional law and even by the courts that the key arguments on your part were merely an expression of incompetence and ignorance, so that on your part it is not only arrogant, but also that it is consciously and intentionally destroying the political legacy of Dr. Janez Drnovšk, to whom you like to refer. I must say in person that I am very sad that this is the case, but it will, in a way, also like the vehement words of one of your key people in the coalition, reveal what this story is really about. We live in a country where Orwelling becomes a very interesting political language, which is used by virtually all the current authorities, and the opposition has only one power to translate this Orwelling language into Slovenian and to show what it is about and, of course, this also adequately underpins the argument either by constitutional law or by what judgment of the courts, which shows you as unprofessional and shows your ignorance. Therefore, consider how you will vote today, since this decision is far more important in the long term than it seems at first sight.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u63	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say, I feel this feeling today, too, which is called sadness. Because today's debate, which I hear again from the same people, is nothing more than a great sadness. And then I hear about the conversation, about the arrangement; for the conversation to be heard, and also about the agreement, but some obviously listen poorly and do not want to listen. And it is obvious that it is the frauds, speculators, criminals and liars that walk through Slovenia, and it is the first-class demagogues that follow this House. We have extraordinary sessions, interpellations, investigative committee, before us today a proposal for a constitutional law, all on the same subject, because we have a very grateful topic, every year, on every occasion, they come along just fine. And a few minutes ago, that was the point: you didn't get rid of that darkness, and we'll serve it on the tray again and again. That was said! You don't want to settle that question! No, we have not solved this issue and this subject, as has been said out loud, and we will not be saved. Why? Because this is an appropriate topic, as I said, every year at every opportunity - already seen and heard. And it's obviously said twice in the mill, but it's said at least a hundred times in this House. For today, as has already been said, they repeat one and the same themes, one and the same things: how will the voracious compensation be paid; how will it be done to those who have a few hundred euros a month; how will those who are hard to endure from day to day who are worried about the future; how will they take care of the pensioners, the workers; how will they be deprived of their rights at the expense of those who have been erased. This is really a first-class and first-class demagogy. And the purpose of the constitutional law before us today is not to regulate this issue, but to overturn the decision of the Constitutional Court. This has been said a hundred times today. And this issue cannot be settled in any other way than by consistent respect for law. The law which you so like to invoke is neither nor can be left nor right: it is not right, nor can it be preceptive, and lawful; neither can it be red, nor black. And the law cannot be measured by the result in the elections, nor can it be measured by such or other numbers, by the numbers on damages, by the numbers on deleted; no, with these vats, unfortunately, cannot measure the right. We can talk about whether it is fair, because today we have mentioned some crazy philosophical debate. We can also be philosophical in this House as to whether the right is fair. And if you read a philosophical discussion, you will be able to read, among other things, that it is righteous for everyone to repay what we owe him. It's just one of the concepts of justice. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm afraid I'm not talking to you. We have no dialogue. Now I have a chance to make my point. You'll have it later. Thank you very much. And it has been said, like so many times, about this fantastic economic growth -- how stupid we are, how we don't know anything. Please give yourself a nice look at the graph, the GDP growth, you probably know what it means, and look at America, the UK, the euro area, and look at 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, and you'll see that others, obviously, have no knowledge, no vision, virtually they don't know anything! Only the government, which was in charge of this country from 2004 to 2008, obviously knew something and was concerned about public finances. So in gold, in fantastic times, she saved and laid good foundations on which we can build today. I'm really grateful to the previous government for that. The talk was about respect for human rights. Thank you for really following my speech. [[....]] Human rights in democracy are not self-evident. Their realization requires the will and commitment of the authorities to respect human rights. I see the other side has read the coalition contract very carefully. A programme, an alternative government programme of Social Democrats, which we wrote before the elections, has been cited several times in the National Assembly. And yes, in this programme we have written the issue of deleted and we have written: The Social Democrats will in the future also advocate consistent respect for fundamental human rights and strengthen the conditions for the exercise of equal opportunities for all citizens of our country regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other circumstance. A certain human right cannot simply be excluded and thrown into some empty space. As has already been said in democracy - and we say that Slovenia is a democratic country - even in a democratic country, human rights are not self-evident. And today it was said that the Commission of Inquiry, which was established in the National Assembly, would "number deleted." Also used was the term "will have to do selection." Do you know what you're talking about? And in what way do you say it? If you don't think there's anything completely at stake about these things, then I think you have a big problem. And like I said before. It is not and cannot be left and right, it cannot be characterized by such or different numbers. But one thing is true is that ignorance of the law harms the most to those who do not know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u65	[[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I don't know if I could give you a replica because I listened very carefully, but she didn't name anyone. [[...]] [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Let's do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u66	I would kindly ask, Mr President, that the Rules of Procedure be complied with in the same way for everyone. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear when you have the right to an explanation and if it is a misquote. And in this case, what I said was completely upside down. I said you're coming back with the darkness erased, not that we're going to bring it back to you. Look at this contradiction of your own words, and this can be proved perfectly by the case. In the same breath, when you reject our constitutional law, with which I have said, you could settle this matter once and for all in a just and just manner, already predict that you will put in another ordinary law with which you will then try to regulate these matters backwards and limit compensation and everything else. That's what you're saying. You're gonna open up the subject, not us. That was the point of what I was warning you about. This comes back to you like a bad student to a professor, if he throws it away, it always comes back like a boomerang. That's the subject. Because you do not pursue it in a just and just way, it always returns and opens up to you. And the second time we're talking about growth, because you've misquoted me here, you know, what I've shown before, I'd agree with you if this growth was the same in Europe. But the growth of the previous government, when I was also a member of the National Assembly, was twice as fast, was twice as high. This is also an added value, an added quality of those who exercised power at the time. Now, the fall, the decline, the catastrophic decline twice as fast, more than twice as fast, is more than twice as bad as the European average. This, you will admit, also points to incompetence and ignorance, and I add, to the indecisiveness and late action of the current ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u67	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Actions deleted are a legal fact and let's stop blinding ourselves to them. Mr. Žnidaršič said that "for now there is no talk of these damages, there is no compensation." That's not true. We have legal actions. We know that. And, Your Honor, let me remind you, we are in the National Assembly, and the National Assembly is not a market. We have committed ourselves to citizens and citizens to do what is first of all for their benefit. And if we're talking about amending the constitutional law, supplementing it, then let me also remind you of the constitutional right to work. One hundred thousand people will soon be out of work. And, of course, by preventing what you intend to prevent today, we will give this initiative to the deleted, who have fought on the other hand and some of them have bought citizenship. Let me draw attention to the legal fact that among the corrupt staff of the report for foreigners in administrative units, as well as among the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there were many who were organised into a criminal association that demanded 10,000 euros each for documents that served to obtain citizenship. Let me also remind you that citizenship was worth only one bottle of beer immediately after the war for Slovenia alone. However, many have despised this and are today seeking redress rights. If we're in a state of law, then we have to take care of our people first. And if we are European comparable, let me say that in Switzerland, which I think is a country to which we can compare, the procedure for obtaining citizenship is significantly different from ours. Today we will grant citizenship, and some are already acquiring it, including those who have been hostile against Slovenia. At the same time, we have written down in the law that, of course, we can never lose our citizenship again, we have already talked about it. At the same time, we accept that from the first census to the last census, we have identified 7 thousand more people reported, some of whom were born 10 years ago! and these will also require compensation, and also for these Mr Franz Žnidaršič insists that they must receive compensation. If, of course, the hole is even bigger in the state budget, then I would ask that all those who are so vehemently defending the rights of foreigners who have come to their enormous earnings today, that you also define here today that you will be part of this guilt for budgetary mania and, of course, part of the costs that will be required to pay for these damages, so-called damages or lawsuits, will be paid on your own. It would be fair for you to take responsibility in person, just like supervisors in companies. I will carefully save this ballot from today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u69	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Miro Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. It's civilisational that injustices are being corrected. Let us remember only one major case in Slovenia to correct injustices, this is denationalisation. This is still going on for almost 20 years, and let us also remember that the parties have been transitioning against this correction of injustices or have tried to hinder it in every way. Denationalisation takes place from case to case with a lot of evidence. It is necessary to bring a variety of documents, evidence and so, although, of course, these denationalising excuses face great difficulties, as many documents are still deep in the Udbov archives. It is also civilisational to correct injustices against all those who have been wrongly erased, but again, from the case to the case of documentation, with proof, with patience and accuracy. Let us also remember how a syntagma was established in Slovenia at the time of the denationalisation that this correction of injustices should not cause new injustices. We can't say that in cases of deletion. The correction of the wrongs that have been done to those who have been erased does not create new injustices, it must not cause new injustices, but only if these injustices have been corrected by those who have indeed been wronged, but not just so, on average. If there are people who have gone from a country that has been hidden in this body, then we cannot say that there have been any injustices committed in the past period. In the case of Holmac, who I have been monitoring as a journalist, I can say that the army, the Slovenian police were being shot by an aggressor army or that this attack was ordered by a man who is now known as the so-called extermination in Slovenia and will be in the future, I am sure, quite well compensated. And in this attack, two police officers died in this aggression against Holmec. What will the family of the two police officers who lost their lives on the Holmac say? On the other hand, we have an example on Reht, a nearby caravan. There too was the commander of this Ravlje guide who came from the former Yugoslavia or from a Yugoslav republic and surrendered, later took citizenship, today serving in the Slovenian Army. What will he say to those who today have no right to enforce no compensation like his colleague five, six kilometers away? And here I think we must be very careful about this, because some in this story are absolutely speculators, but there are many who have been wronged. Among those who will be able to receive compensation today are those who were shooting at the Maribor road in Dravograd during the self-conservation war in Slovenia, and I was there. They left behind a real mess. In the house near "colenbrandt", they shot down the library selected by Ivan Cankar and demonstrated in their symbolic way what they wanted to do in Slovenia. Will they also receive compensation? And these people suffered a great deal of material damage on this side of Maribor Road and elsewhere in Koroška. What did the insurance company say? The insurance company Maribor, the Triglav gentlemen said, "No, you don't get compensation because it was a war." The prosecution in Slovenj Gradc, the famous prosecutor in Slovenj Gradc, sought out for the first time the executioner of one of the territorialists who fell in Dravograd, and for the second time the perpetrators of the damage in Dravograd. The prosecutor's office in Slovenia Castle found that there was no war in Dravograd. The decision was: we have not found the perpetrator - ergo, it is an unknown perpetrator. So, who attacked Slovenia at the time, we simply don't know this from this logic of the Slovenian prosecutor's office. And the unknown perpetrator has apparently stopped looking for Slovenian justice or law enforcement. I agree with those who say that we must also ask ourselves about righteousness in this matter. Justice is a fundamental legal value, it is also one of fundamental ethical values, and we must ask ourselves whether, in all this case, which we are talking about here in the National Assembly for years and years, this principle of justice has indeed been respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u71	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, I was told here in this hall that I was picking up political points when I raided the Ministry of Finance because of the catastrophic preparation of the Public Finance Act. And when I said that a clear, very clear break with stories, in the future, with stories about managers' purchases in Slovenia. Today we have an example, in the sky, of how we can easily get political points, as we call it, of over 20,000 new voters. That's unacceptable to me. They are also unacceptable, according to my assessment of the priorities set by our government. The priorities are more than clearly deleted, lawyers, widows of military officers and so on. Of course, the crisis is a second-class topic. In the last two sessions, i.e. in two months, we have dealt with 48 points in this house, of which 41 are laws. And of those 41 laws, respected colleagues and colleagues, only four of them smell a little of the benevolence of the financial economic crisis. Within two months, four of the 41 laws, which have little smell of wanting to alleviate the financial economic crisis in Slovenia. Please be so self-critical and admit that this is too little and that this is unacceptable and irresponsible to citizens and citizens. I think that there is no one in this house and not in all the country that doesn't want and doesn't want the injustices that may have occurred in this issue of so-called deleted ones to be eliminated. Personally, I want to be honest with myself. However, it would be fair and correct for all Slovenes and Slovenians to deal with these cases individually, i.e. each, of course, even more so now that it is more than clear that the consequences of the issue of supplementary decisions will also be compensation. I'm not going to speculate on how tall, how tall, because that would be irresponsible. But I guess you'll remember, a while ago, we were here looking at old farmers' pensions, where there was a proposal for a little repair. And that proposal by the coalition, including DeSus, was strongly rejected. I know the case of an 87-year-old woman from Prekmur who, after working in the fields from her youth to this country, has €170 pension for her family. And today she must, because she is forced to do this to survive, to work in the stables, in the garden, and in the fields. Can you imagine that? 87-year-old wife. Does that seem normal to you? On the one hand our loyal, good working people, even such, of course, who fought for this country, for this Slovenian nation. On the other hand, among the so-called deleted, even such, I do not claim that all, including those who merely speculate. Shame. Because of these facts, I support the adoption of this constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u73	It's Mr. Ivo Weighle's turn. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u74	Mr. President-in-Office. So, first of all, why we thought it important in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we tabled this constitutional law. I will repeat something that I have already said in this National Assembly, namely that the Constitutional Court has deleted, and several illegal and unconstitutional manoeuvres have been needed. First, to determine the unconstitutionality of Article 81 of the Aliens Act, which is part of the constitutional law and is not in the judgment of the Constitutional Court. To silence the fact that, under the Foreigners Act and Article 13 of the Constitutional Law, they were obliged to submit applications until the expiry of the terms of Article 81 and to arrange for one of the statuses offered. To silence the constitutional possibility of Article 157 of the Constitution, which provides that, if no other judicial protection is provided for, in a legal dispute, the competent court shall also decide on the legality of individual acts and acts which prejudice the constitutional rights of the individual. This decision, respectable to me, is not legal, and I am convinced that on the basis of such a constitutional provision, which, in my opinion, has a politically motivated foreshadow and cannot be a recognition to the Constitutional Court, it is one of the great disgraces that this institution, called the Constitutional Court, has used for pure political purposes or the acquisition of voters at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. Mr. President, I'm going to quote four. 3. 2009, Constitutional Judge of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Matevž Krivica. He wrote the following: "I appreciate the principled first reaction of Mr Pahor to our call for reflection on the moral duty of the State, that the vast multitude of those who have been erased who cannot even dream about compensation claims, because they have no money or knowledge of it, offer at least some flat-rate compensation." Further: "So don't mind me giving you this well-meaning warning, first of all all my repeated repetitions and boldly underlined warnings since the conclusion of the collation agreement, that any advance limitation of compensation is ecclatic, unconstitutional. Since the damage was unlawfully caused by that State itself, it is, under Article 26 of its own Constitution, obliged to repay in full." And to conclude: "To the Society of the Deleted, we say that the vast majority of those affected in the lawsuit can't even dream, and we invite the state to offer, if anything to its honour, at least some lump sums to those who don't want to" - those who don't want to be written down - whether they can't sue. Well, as I mentioned at the outset, at least Pahor reacted in principle. But we'll see the sequel soon." Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! This was recorded by the Constitutional Judge of the Republic of Slovenia. And then here in this National Assembly, let me ask someone to explain whether we are so incompetent in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we understand what is written here. And you're trying to convince us in all ways that the compensation will. Matvež Krivec, the Constitutional Judge of the Republic of Slovenia, wrote here very clearly, explicitly that compensation will be that compensation must be, and that it is a moral obligation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will quote the lady who wrote in Supper 1. 4. 2009 as follows: "We know how things have been going on, and I myself have spoken to the so-called deleted in the years following that, after the state of Slovenia has already asked them to arrange things and offer them new hands, but they have not done so. There were many who did not have completely clear concepts of citizenship. In the discussion, they mentioned that they had their own nationalities, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., and they did not need Slovenian citizenship, as they did not have it until now. I explained to them that the allowed citizenship of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic is no longer there, because the country has fallen apart and the republics have become independent states and that they must therefore now regulate their citizenship in the country they live in, but have only waved their hand." Dear colleagues and colleagues! These are deleted. These are the people to whom you attribute the omen deleted. So this country invited them several times, all those who lived at the time in the Republic of Slovenia, to arrange it. They have not done this on purpose, and today you expect Slovenians and Slovenians to pay compensation to these people, based on what Mr Krivic wrote. This is absolutely unacceptable. Now, a few more words from some speakers, I will not mention them, that is, some of the speakers from the Social Democrats. They said that the social problem, the unemployed, the low-wage workers and all those, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who live extremely hard, that it is a demagogy for them, that we "start" a demagogy in the Slovenian Democratic Party and speak falsehoods and repeat lies. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I do not know if we live together in one and the same country. 90,000 unemployed. Do you have any idea how many workers there are under 500 euros in wages? Look at your pensioners and your pensioners! We have introduced a law to give them certain resources to make it easier for them to survive this critical situation in this country - none of which, you have voted against, you simply care about these people. Today, however, we are listening to SD, Zares, LDS, DeSUS as to how urgently these people must be compensated, because this is the key and first problem of the Republic of Slovenia when we face a catastrophic economic and financial situation. And I am sure that in this country we must once understand what our first and key task is. And it is clear what our first and key task is - that we will not have 90,000 unemployed in the institution, that people will not have 500 euros in wages and pay European prices. Then you're talking, you're preparing one marriage, or I think you've already prepared it, for 120 to 200 Euros of a supplement to anyone who's socially at risk. On the other hand, every day I listen, you have adopted a law or decision that annual vignettes will cost almost 100 euros. Look where we came from with gas prices, oil derivatives! Now, let's just figure out what people have to pay for fuel and for heating and how much money they spend on transportation every month, and let's also calculate 50 euros, which will pay more for wine, add this together, and you'll see how much you've given to these citizens with these 120 or 200 euros. Nothing at all! And this is the deception of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Here, when it comes to compensation for the wiped out, which will be huge, you don't care. Then make your decisions on the current tape! For this very reason, we have tabled a constitutional law in the Slovenian Democratic Party to resolve this problem once and for all in a manner that is decent and necessary to solve this problem. And that each case will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have never opposed the resolution of those problems and the 'guilty's' that this country has made to eliminate those injustices. We never objected to it, but - individually! And we'll insist on that. And I am sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party's approach to solving this issue is clear, principled and fair. Once again, Slovenian taxpayers will not pay for what you invented, which was invented by the Constitutional Court by constitutional law. They won't pay for it. Today, I hope that you will support this constitutional law and prevent this mess at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers and those poor people who are barely surviving from month to month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u75	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, if there were any in the Chamber, and honourable Members! Human rights are universal, but they are not self-evident. And every human being, whether we like it or not, has the right to be treated as equal and equal. But not all these people are granted these rights. And speaking of deleted persons, I don't know how many times, but I have been following this issue since 2002, I have to say that I am actually defeated as a man by cynicism, by arrogance and by the lies that accompany this issue. I am even more defeated than a Member of the National Assembly, who has the opportunity to arrange things that have been poorly regulated, which have been illegal and for which the Constitutional Court has ordered the National Assembly to abolish them. And since some of you like to invoke the Constitution, not for the first time, but I fear that I will have to repeat this again, that the rights to work in this Constitution, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are unfortunately no longer recorded, but the right to free choice of work is enshrined in article 49 of the Constitution. This is an article that speaks of freedom of work, that no one has the right to force anyone to work. That's what's left of the former right to work. However, Article 26 of the Constitution provides for the right to reparation. And if there are big stories about how many are unemployed, how many are poor, I have spoken many times in the National Assembly. And lastly, we have also heard the testimony of this government that it is too busy dealing with the unemployed and that it is overly generous, rather than being involved in creating conditions for management. The two laws that have been adopted have been 'adopted', as they say, and have been adopted by the social partners as a suitable solution. But I'm sorry, but now I'm going to ask you a question that I, your honor, have. Crane, don't mind, not you or anyone else: Would it be helpful for those 17 - year - olds to be wiped out in this country and whether the problem is solved or not? Only the problem of the deleted cannot be the cause and cannot be the cause of a bad life, for the difficult economic conditions, for the injustices that they are. But if we know of any injustice, then it is the responsibility of the state to remove it. And with regard to what is possible, I would like to hear again and again in the National Assembly, but I would like to draw attention to some things. Someone remembered the times when they changed people's names. You know, I remember the early 1990s when some people decided to change their last name to look, from their own belief and decision, and they turned their original soft cz into hard because they were stigmatized. Just to think about what we are like to each other, because in this country we are citizens and citizens by nationality and origin, and the speech is only about honest Slovenians and Slovenians, but in this country there are also members of national communities and also members of ethnic groups as well as the peoples of the former republics of Yugoslavia. Mr Gorenak enthusiastically reiterates how a minority civilian group has actually pointed out the problem of the deleted. For me, there is no civilian group and a minority initiative and it is not true that only she has warned. The question is, what was the issue of citizenship in the Organization of the United Nations? They did not know at the time of this problem that some people who had their permanent residence in Slovenia had been deprived of this right until then. Therefore, knowing that there has been a problem for some time does not necessarily mean that this problem has not happened before, but it is known that our conduct on matters is limited and is what it wants to be. Today, some still mix citizenship and permanent residence. Again, there was also talk about not wanting to be a citizen, and several times we mentioned cases where some wanted to be a citizen, and their application for citizenship was rejected. So don't throw everyone in the same basket. Now, actually, I'm going to do what I'm going to do in today's debate, but not for the first time again, it's the most disturbing. There is no President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities right now in the Chamber so that she can tell her in the face that she is lying. But it is a lie because some decision with the Commission on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities puts it in a false context. The Commission, which examined the Ombudsman's report, also received a draft conclusions for the meeting. There was no decision in that motion for decisions requiring the adoption of a constitutional law. The Commission has seven members for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, and it is true that the relationship between the coalition and opposition Members is 4:3, but when the President put this motion to a vote, there were three opposition members and two coalition members on the Commission. Therefore, the decision that the Commission boasted that it had adopted was not a decision to indicate the inequality of the positions of the coalition, but only points to the fact that, at that time, the coalition did not have all its representatives at the meeting of the Commission, and that is the truth. And it is unacceptable that the President of the Commission for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities is so gravely lying. I think she's gonna do it again. In the National Assembly, I heard her say it twice. I don't know how many times she's said that in other places, because she's not in my habit of spying on people. But it's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. That's not a lie. That's a lie because he knows what he's doing, because he wants to prove something he can't prove. I would ask that, however, by this debate today, I should be able to avoid a repetition of this fact, because the Group of Social Democrats is considered to have always advocated a law that would correct or eliminate the injustices that would follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I do not know how many times we have justified why this law cannot be supported. Because it is impossible to believe that the applicants would want to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, because the applicants constantly question the correctness, appropriateness and I do not know what else is involved with the Constitutional Court and its decisions. Because I proved on one occasion, but on more than one occasion, I could prove you're lying - how can I believe you have pure purposes? I'm very sorry, dear Dr. Gorenak - just take your time - but I can't believe you. That is why I will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Before I make a motion for a procedural question, it was true, Madam Magistrate, that you mentioned a Member who is not here and made a lot of words, just - that is to those who raised your hand for a procedural question and you probably want to warn me with this - this has been happening since morning all along. Even before the secretary was in there, it was flying over the minister, so I didn't interrupt. The first, however, asked for a procedural question, Mr Gorenak. Here you go. I'm sorry. You raised your hand for the replica first. I thought it was a replica because I'd get it as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Of course, I have to respond to this last performance. I can, Mrs Potrata, agree with you that human rights are universal, but one of them is also the right to equality, equal treatment, etc. Now, if you think that the right to equality allocated in this Chamber is the person who came to me in the office of the Member to tell me that she received three thousand and something, or as far as possible, Euros for a few years of Mauthausna, is the same as Mr Todorovic. If this is how you take equality, I must tell you that I do not understand the principles of equality resulting from the Constitution. And this hall, this National Assembly, is the one who can regulate these rights. And the Constitutional Law would regulate this right if it were to limit compensation; perhaps as much as they get those from concentration camps. That would be fair and the same. But today it's not the same. Well, I can't agree. I see here a great connection between Mr. Žerev's old lady, who mentioned her, and today's topic. This lady, too, is likely to have fewer and more work to do in some way as a result of the behaviour of Minister Kresalov. There is another connection between her because Mr Todorovic will take it away. Maybe because he doesn't want Slovenian citizenship, which he's long since said he's interested in compensation, he'll buy some villa on the Heritage, maybe. But this lady will also contribute from Mr Žerjev as a taxpayer. Minorna - yes, a minority group called the Helsinki Monitor, but I add, also irresponsible! In fact, this irresponsible group with Mrs. Predanovo felt on my own in the case of Vič-Holmec, when the independents sued in The Hague and sent them to The Hague, despite the fact that the entire Slovenian judiciary found that there were no crimes at Holmac. And that is why this lady is not only a representative of the minority group, but she is irresponsible. She is also irresponsible because she stands in front of the camera with Mr. Schuštar, State Secretary, and defends him. He was convicted by Slovenian courts. Of course, you are wrong when the claim that in 1995 the Human Rights Council or the Commission in the United Nations Organization in Geneva did not know this. You're wrong about that. I myself led the Slovenian delegation in 2005. Believe me, I studied everything that happened in 1995 because I expected all the questions on this subject. The delegation was headed by Dr. Shelikh. And it was very clear that there were no problems in this area, since the Council of Europe had already said before 1992, 1993 that Slovenia had adequately addressed this problem. Then why wouldn't the UN know about this if the Council of Europe already knew? So that's not true. We agree, however, that the party does not point to throwing in the same basket and that is why we are proposing a constitutional law. So that the speculators don't get anything and the injured get everything they're good at. So we can absolutely agree on that. As far as lying is concerned, I wouldn't, I hear them too much every day - but, on the other hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u79	Mr. Mag. Cranes, you've already raised your hand, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u80	I'd like to ask the replica. I was named.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u81	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u82	Perhaps I was not clear enough in my debate and this was why the colleague intervened. So, I think it would be right for the Slovenian Government to deal equally with some other cases that are in the sky. It would be wise to take care of the real, loyal, conscientious, working Slovenians and Slovenians first. The raise of the farm's pensions was rejected if it wasn't systematic, there was no money, and so on and so forth. I used the case that's real on purpose. That's true, that's not a lie, that's the truth, that's the truth. One hundred and seventy euros of pension - peasant age - seventy-seven years-old female. So, no money, no system solution, and the vehemently coalition rejected that proposal. Today we know well that the consequences of issuing complementary decisions will also be compensations - but money is not a problem here, and there is no problem here! In short, I would like to make it clear that we have two different approaches to solving similar problems by having an interest in one and taking the devil's interest in the other and waving our hand at the other, if it isn't systemic. That's not right. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u83	Ma'am mag. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u84	Dr. Gorenak, you know, when I talked about the Organization of the United Nations and about the fact that the bodies on which the opinion was formulated were based on how the State of Slovenia granted citizenship, all the reactions to this from the former Prime Minister of Mr Peterlet, who I also listened to talk about deleted persons, and who else, always related to how Slovenia regulated access to citizenship. What I keep repeating in deleted cases, and I don't think we want to know, but some people know and deceive that it's not a question of citizenship, but that it's a question of universal human rights, of residence rights, that's for me as well as the right to life. Whether he has a permanent residence or has a temporary residence, this person must have this right. The right to citizenship, however, can be a choice because even nationality can be decided whether to be a member of a nationality or to be a member of a country. This should also be allowed as a free choice within the framework of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And when I talk about how we knew or didn't know about these things, of course, I also refer to the Council of Europe, and to the Commissioner for Human Rights, and to the ECRI Commission, to Amnesty International, and not least to the report that some people so like to quote, this is the report of the US Foreign Ministry, where this problem is being perceived. And what I'm saying is, the people in this situation have problems, they have problems, they're poor, they're suffering, some have died without correction of the injustice, and the responsible state should take care of that. And that's all that's about whether we want to admit it or finally be able to admit it. What hurts especially is that we then play with patriotic emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u85	Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. See, there is no problem, of course they have this right or had this right to accept citizenship or to remain foreigners. All you had to do was say this or that. There was no other problem. And with 180,000 they said they got citizenship for x tolars. Foreigners could also have been created, the law allowed it, so they could have been defined as foreigners living in Slovenia, but I claim that these 18,000, now 26,000, did not believe in Slovenia. They left, they weren't here -- a large majority of them. The flowers, the player and so on - we know that there are exceptions, they absolutely have to admit everything, but most of these 18,000 are "boiled" and went to better places because they wanted to live there because they did not recognise Slovenia. When it is, just remember when there was a war in Bosnia and those areas - in 2003, 2004, and then they came back because Slovenia survived. And here's the problem. All these organizations, which you are, of course, talking to, are absolutely talking, and in 2005 in Geneva, they asked me what was going on with that question. But since when have they been beeping? They've been there since 1996, but they didn't. And of course, it wouldn't even be this problem if that historical fact that he said, "Slovenia won't survive," which most of these gentlemen, I'm talking about most -- people are looking at us, I'm aware that there are injustices among them, they need to be apologized, and they also have to be compensated -- most of these gentlemen have to say, "No!" Because they didn't believe in this country and they left this country, and when it started to crack in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, they came back. And that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u87	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So many things have already been said on this subject today, I would point out only one or two things so that we will not repeat ourselves and one and the same things over and over again. In particular, the representative of the Government said that all beneficiaries, i.e. deleted, should be checked in very restrictive procedures under the then legislation. This is the acquisition of permanent residence, citizenship and so on. And it is here that reasonable doubts arise as to the credibility of the documentation that the deleted applicants are proposing. The proof that I should only remind myself of the recently discovered corruption in Maribor, Ljubljana and elsewhere will be found in the ranks of state officials who are and will in some way be indirectly involved in these procedures of regulating the status deleted. In the country of Slovenia, paper obviously carries everything. If you have enough caviar in your pocket, you can buy any document and here are deleted quite good masters. Unfortunately for them, however, they have apparently been counted after our own self-sustaining war, but they have also successfully persisted and, above all, with the paid support of some Slovenian - under the terms - "fighters" for the rule of law and for the ruling political parties. Undoubtedly, the proposer will lose this matter of submitting this proposal to supplement the constitutional law, but the political power ratio in this national assembly is currently the same as it is. Unfortunately, this relationship with the opinion on deleted is not the same between Slovenians and Slovenians. Any public opinion research is and will show a completely different relationship between the Slovenian people, maybe 90:10, 85:15 and so on, so where is the credibility of the political decision-making coalition in the case of deleted? Whom, in fact, is represented by the coalition now and here - only deleted, not obviously by the Slovenians and the Slovenians who fought for this country. And apparently, he doesn't even represent his constituents if we take that public relations into account. Is that moral, politically responsible? Let us ask the Slovenian people what they think about deleted, their naturalization, damages, etc. But you certainly do not hope to do this and you prefer to ignore and deny the opinion of the majority of the population of Slovenia. And it's not good, it's not fair and it kind of means treason to the Slovenian people. This way, too, you will not gain credibility by insisting on solutions to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I am afraid that I was right when I pointed out in the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we will not hear much new. I'm afraid I was right to find out with concern that we're going to continue to say the same thing and to adjust the evidence for the claim we're going to make. Perhaps by the end of the debate, which I hope will not be long, I will be correcting it with some minority, which can only be made clearer today than in the debates so far, if we know how to stress it properly, so let me say the following. It is my belief that the original sin of 1992 and the way the Aliens Act are implemented. I am one of the few that we have voted in Parliament at the time when laws were passed, for all three laws, for the Basic Constitutional Charter, for the Citizenship Act and for the Aliens Act, but we have warned in the Foreigners Act that some groups in particular or through the Members should not have been deprived of the right to permanent residence of anyone - and the government has assured us so. That is why you have not convinced me so far that there was no original sin here and that now you want to cover in every way the wrong decision that was made at the time. Not in the basic charter of independence - there was nothing wrong here. Not in the system of citizenship - the system of citizenship has been extremely broad-minded and properly implemented. In the case of the Foreigners Act, in the view of the Constitutional Court, and otherwise you have not convinced me so far, it was not properly enforced because it was expected that those who were already foreigners, because they did not live in Slovenia as Slovenian citizens, should be re-established or acquired within a very short period of time. And when the deadline was not fulfilled, this right was withdrawn from them, they were deleted from the permanent register of the population, their personal documents were destroyed, and they became really deleted here. These are specific stories, Mr Gorenak, which we know. You're saying they've been called on several occasions to arrange this status. In the debate on the interpretation of the Minister, I asked you to provide appropriate documentation to this effect so that this could be ascertained. You didn't give it to me. Please give it again. I don't know about her, and I don't know about the public calls in the media, except for any personal calls that have been made to anyone, "let me arrange the status of a foreigner so that we can get a permanent residence." It wasn't that simple or it was, and you don't want to say, you don't want to submit documentation. Present her! All the documentation I know so far does not talk about it, but it does talk about how it happened overnight, in a way that when individuals came to regulate certain things on the appropriate state authorities. However, they wanted to arrange for the renewal of the driver’s license, and another document was destroyed. They wanted to extend my ID, and I couldn't do it without having to repeat it. Let's find out for once. You do not want to admit that in 1992 the implementation of the Aliens Act was wronged. And that's the basic problem that we're emerging from. This is also a fundamental problem which I have raised in my own interview with the former Minister of the Interior when we were talking about whether or not we could talk about constitutional law. And he said it was possible to talk about everything, but to admit that in 1992 anything was wrong and that, therefore, the status of permanent residence with 26 February 1992 was regulated - what the Constitutional Court demanded - we have no authority to do so and we will never agree to it. And then this is where the conversation stopped, because it was a fundamental difference. Another thing I'd like to say. I don't think it's right and it's nice to try to connect the feelings of the Slovenians against the deleted with the self-sustaining war and with the many serious problems that this country and its people have with it - at the prices of gasoline, if you want to, when working, at low pensions, at low wages, at problems that await them, because they have neither wages nor pensions, do you want to connect it. It's just not right. And in this part, our warnings are that you're trying to knock on people's emotions in an inappropriate way, correct. I don't think that's right. Let's talk about one problem, not everything, and mixed up. It's like a third. Why isn't it right? Because then we can also talk about what we have done in the field of the regulation of many other injustices that have been committed in the previous authorities, denationalisation, victims of war violence, correction of injustices, which you do not even recognize and do not want to admit that much has been done, but then things need to be compared and said that today we are adopting laws in this House that require additional indebtedness of the Slovenian compensation associations because we do not have the means to correct the injustices and denationalisation that this law has adopted that some injustices have been caused then, probably without need. That some of the decisions we made were more broad-minded than others, then we can talk - only "doesn't fit" with them. "It doesn't fit" with it, and so far I haven't done it, but if you want to, then you need to have a full conversation. But I am one thing - and I must say that I will most likely conclude with this - today I have learned something far more specific than I expected you to say. I had a written question. Tell us once who the speculators are. And Mr Gorenak, if I understood him correctly, told me this at the end of the debate: the speculators were those who did not believe in the Slovenian state and did not want citizenship, but wanted some uncertain status. This precarious status, however, was the status of a foreigner who had previously been recognised as taking time to decide whether to be citizens of Slovenia, or citizens of Bosnia, or Serbia, or Croatia or whoever they were by then. If that's what this is, then it's something new to me, and then it justifies to me an argument that legally doesn't seem right. In fact, it's legal for someone because he didn't want to be defined as the country that was coming when we Slovenians had a different relationship to her than those 200,000. And that's what they're about. 175 grand in citizenship, everyone had a reason for it. C.I.A. 25 000 decided to stay here, but they wanted to stay here as foreigners, not to be allowed to be expelled from this country by taking away all their documents, and some are true, even physically - to send them to the border and send them across the border. And here's the basic problem. And if this is really a majority opinion, gentlemen of the opposition, then let us also think about it. Because here we are on the verge of understanding the rule of law and the rule of law and human rights, and I am not sure that anywhere your interpretation will be adopted in this way - yes, in specific cases, because it was an action against the country. But where someone didn't know what to do for a lot of reasons, you say: that's why he was a speculator and we don't have the right to recognize him as a foreigner and have the right to destroy his documents. This has been the case, my dear gentlemen, for my understanding of the law far beyond equality, through the exercise of human rights and also of the rule of law. And if I understood correctly, Mr. Gorenak, then I would imagine if you would continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Gorenak has the floor as a proposaler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much. For a little while. Look, destroyed documents and so on. Everything that's been published in the news media has already been destroyed, annulled, embroiled, and so on only these matters have I seen in the public eye. But I didn't see anywhere in public with the law once and today a certain way of destroying. It's a penetrating. So all that's in the media is a fake or an EPP for so-called deleted. The Slovenian state and Slovenia in the former Yugoslavia destroyed the documents by piercing them and you know yourself when you return the old passports, take new ones, pierce them today. And no one writes destroyed or anything like that. I'm not saying it wasn't happening either, but if it was coming, it could only have been through a hole in any particular case. As for the feelings of the Slovenians, so, Mr Potrč, I know that at the time of the independence of Slovenia you did play an important role, not least you were the President of the Assembly at the time. [[And yet, before and at that time.]] I respect this matter, but you have to say, you've been as safe as you can be, being guarded by the police and so on, which is normal, which is right, which is the only responsibility. Many Slovenians, including me, and at that time, among other things, in what ditch, up here, we were in arms. It will be difficult for anyone to convince me to believe that those who went against these invaders were listed by Mr Friday a little earlier, a particular case was listed; it will be difficult for you to convince me that any way you say these people will have respectable feelings for these people. No, you can't convince me. And as long as this nation lives, as long as these people live, who have experienced it. I myself experienced the death of two police officers in Holmec, Celje and Slovenj Gradec working together in the police sense at that time. All that screaming, mother, and so on, it just doesn't work out for me and it's not normal for me to have a respectful attitude towards these people today. I can't have it. Speculators, as you said, are a new term. See, you spoke as if Slovenia had captured 18,000 or 25,671 people in Slovenia and destroyed the documents and banished them. That's not true. That doesn't correspond to the actual state of affairs. She's absolutely out of line. Slovenia has asked you people to come. There were 180,000 of them. And you didn't come. That's problematic. The former Director of the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who was suspended during this government, has been involved in citizenship and civil affairs since the traineeships, and has been set up politically, Mr Vukko, as you know, was at the time of independence and at the time of these events the principal Department of Internal Affairs in Velenj. He's going to tell you a little bit, now that he's been suspended, I'm not going to point out that he's been sending three letters home to people, so come and sort it out, they haven't come. Ms. Metka Lumbar, Administrative Unit Ljubljana, said this: At the then City Secretariat for Home Affairs in Ljubljana, we ordered a copy of all persons who did not have the status. We have sent invitations to all of these and informed them of the amendment of the legislation. We sent 7,000 invitations, most of them back with the code "unknown" or "moved". About 2,000 of them were engaged. But 500 to 700 responded, and we helped everyone. What does that mean, unknown or evicted? That's proof that these people weren't here. They're gone. They left because many computers, for such or other reasons, would be better for them in another country. And that's why it's not right. That's why I'm saying they're speculators, and they're really speculators. That is why we also propose by constitutional law that we should look at what someone has done. And if there have already been speculators, which is unequivocally, a large majority among them, we claim by constitutional law that they have no right to receive compensation. This is problematic because someone was a speculator because someone has been somewhere in Bosnia, Serbia or anywhere for three years. You know, then he comes back and says, "Indemnity!" Look, it's not. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak, for a fairly correct explanation. I just want to say the following. In my opinion, after reading the books that were written according to the accounts, he was called to the appropriate state authority, but to have his documents pierced. This is my attitude; it can be different. Whether we can do this or not, we can have a different view. I think it was the Constitutional Court who found that it was not properly done under the law. And from here on out, there are debates and differences that we have. As far as compensation is concerned. I never said neither about nor against compensation, because I think these things need to be thoroughly studied. And I have only proposed that we find out, because we certainly must not violate Article 26 of the Constitution, and we must certainly not allow that country to give these rights disproportionately to other rights that it has granted in the event of some other injustices, and that, in order to say so domestically, it would be impoverishable or unable to fulfil its obligations to pensions to anything else. But this is not the time to talk about it. And all I'm saying is that it's unfair to intimidate billions of euros if we know at the same time that we've spent billions of euros on some other things, and I'm not going to say unjustifiably, but we've spent and we're ready to do it. Otherwise, there's only one other thing. When these decisions were taken, I was still a delegate to the Social Political Assembly, and indeed the leader of the parliamentary group, and was therefore obliged to meet very often in government premises with the most responsible, leading many things. I participated in the drafting of the Constitutional Charter because I was also a member and formally also Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission, and I did not have any special protection rights. That may have been before 1990, and this security in the previous system was much, I'd say, less strict than it was later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Much has been said about this subject in the National Assembly. Some of us who have been new here, you who have been here for years, we almost resent that you haven't settled this problem. And I am increasingly aware that those who compare us to kindergarten do. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want the long problems of former citizens of the SFRJ to be definitively resolved for two decades, so we are convinced that this can only be done through constitutional law. We, too, want to finally settle the status of everyone and determine whether some may actually have been wronged. As each person is special, there are also reasons why some did not want or could arrange a status, for each individual. It is therefore necessary to identify the reasons and situation for each individual, that is to say, the facts and the actual situation. In view of the problem of the amount of possible compensation, the Constitutional Court has not been established. If we solve this problem from case to case and find that someone really has been wronged, he should also receive appropriate compensation. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, however, according to colleague Guido Kres, all the inhabitants of the then Republic of Slovenia have been since plebiscite 23. 12. 1990 knew that a new country would be created and that it was also a new status since the declaration of the State. We have become citizens of a new country, foreigners have maintained the status of a foreigner, and former Yugoslav citizens have had the opportunity to decide what they want to become. Members of the Slovenian People's Party supported the establishment and signed themselves under a request for a parliamentary inquiry to finally investigate the data and procedures that have been mentioned and biased in the years since independence, as the individual political options have answered and have responded to those who have declared themselves deleted. Finally, it should be resolved to the extent to which there are truly those who have been unable to regulate their status and how many those who have even participated in the ranks of the Yugoslav People’s Army at that time. It is also known that there are quite a few who have gone across the border to war in the Balkans. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated a legal basis for the enforcement of a constitutional decision, so we have always sought to finalize this matter with a new relevant constitutional law, to comply with the constitutional decision and to resolve the status of former citizens of Yugoslavia. We note that all those who did not regulate the status within the statutory time limit were legally transferred to the records of foreigners in 1992 on the basis of the law on foreigners, since it was only in 1999 that the Constitutional Court repealed certain articles of this law. Therefore, it is not possible to say that they had been illegally erased because they had no status in the new country at the time, and therefore they were only obliged to arrange it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot agree to underestimate the values acquired by independence. We cannot allow our country to be on sale, that some so easily promise and scatter tax money when they promise rights and damages for so many years ago. We cannot allow our country to try to show itself impatient and as a country that does not respect human rights. We cannot allow the international institutions to be mucked and accused by a country that has peacefully allowed all these people to live without regulated status all these years in Slovenia. And we cannot agree to try to devalue and deprive Members and this National Assembly of their constitutional function, the legislator's function and the founder's function. For all these reasons, we support the Constitutional Law, so that, in the same way as in the case of independence, a constitutional decision is now implemented at the constitutional level, since the decision on status in the new country is constitutional matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! I come alone from Gorenjska and I am traditionally a man of savings. Therefore, it seems to me extreme damage without having to spend money on something so loose, unprovable and all aspects of the disputed as they have been erased. I would like to remind the government if it has not by chance noticed that 8.5% of the decline in economic growth has been recorded, people are on the road, instead of "proleters of all countries, unite" they now have a new call "with red government in red numbers". Because 8.5% of the decline is twice the size of the crisis in the European Union. We've been listening to a lot of things today. If there are injustices, injustices do not come from the sky and so on, but someone causes them, not even an abstract person such as the State, the legal person of the country is the natural person they manage, and so on, and someone has obviously made mistakes in certain places. However, on the other hand, the calculus of some needs to be taken into account. Today, we have also heard that you can expect 50,000 euros for "muddy" transactions, three years of suffering in the Third Reich concentration camp or Italian fascists, and it is a miracle that you have survived three years at all, from 3 to 8 000 euros. A little payment for suffering, a lot for the week. And given that the "Knowledge of Harvest" project is now under way in Parliament, it seems almost grotesque to me that doctors of science who are trying their entire lives with research, studies, and great knowledge is to create huge capital from nothing. And let one more of these come, and within the framework of the "Knowledge of Harvest" project, tell us how to make a good profit out of nothing. As far as I know, a working visa lasts several months to one year, a tourist visa, I think it lasts six months, with all the countries of the Western Balkans, except Croatia, there is still a visa regime. And I want to know how these people have lived with us for decades, either illegally or with some paper that might not be what they want, but they had at least something arranged. I can't get past their irresponsibility. When the document runs out, when you lose it, you're obliged to arrange it. We know information about some, perhaps the elderly, who have been less informed, but today we have heard that there have been additional actions, and perhaps some that have been cut off due to fighting in the bloody Balkans. However, I cannot help but mention some of the acquaintances, former colleagues who were at home in Parachin, for example, who made a vehement statement when asked whether they would go back to Slovenia, said no, but only in the tank in Slovenia. So with the aggressors back. And such calculators, when they calculated that there would be a large Serbia from the Black Sea to the Adriatic Sea, there were quite a number of such calculators. With the fall of the Milosevic regime, they realized how wrong they were, and now, of course, the opportunity to "hit and rush" at free money. Above all, I am disturbed by the deleted relations, the relationship to some 200,000 loyal citizens from the republics of the former Yugoslavia who have faithfully arranged everything necessary. In a joke, my former associates told me that it was a shame, because I did not make sure that I was erased myself, that I would live in Slovenia as smoothly as I had already lived, and now I would benefit from some 50,000 euros. I think that these 200,000 citizens from other republics may be justly offended. We have mentioned similar cases in the European Union. I'll only mention one. In Riga, the capital city of Latvia, is the Holocaust Museum, where terror is highlighted by Russian communists. In Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia lives for several hundred thousand Russians who did not want to take citizenship, have all the other rights, but their case is not ragged around the world, only sometimes in honor of bilateral relations is attracted to the plan - 200 thousand Estonians, 400 thousand Latvians, etc. Let's not talk about any other things. I would also like to add one thing to it because it was presented today. I'd like to fix our colleagues from Dessus. In Slovenia, they have billionaires and because we have billionaires, according to their president's announcement, pensioners would be entitled to up to EUR 1000. Now, I don't know, there's still open stuff here. Let them reconcile these two apparent contradictions. There was a lot of talk about lies. If you accuse someone of being a liar, it's also outside, on the road, in the inn, it could be a pretty serious accusation. Perhaps in my vision this was more self - criticism, perhaps in the sense of this proverb: “Take the thief! And the debate on lies in this House, where it became a standard, is a waste of time to discuss lies in Parliament. Above all, I am concerned about all of this, in the case of the deleted, I am concerned about the part of the Slovenian protagonists who bind themselves to them, who expect God to know any material benefits and to close the matter with the English proverb: Birds of the beast fly together. We also have a suitable Slovenian: the same birds are flying together. For me, almost the same problem as profiteers, speculators in terms of deleted, their Slovenian assistants. That's what worries me the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u100	No, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u101	There's no replica, you weren't named.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u102	Yeah, not directly, but indirectly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u103	She's not here. I'm sorry. Mr. Ravnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you for the opportunity to speak here. It's really boring today. I no longer expected anything new to come to light, so I am listening to the news itself, which Mr Ziherl is only able to talk about Latvia, which is a well-known country with the largest share of the Nazis in addition to Koroška, during the Reich. And of course, even today, as serious people can say it. Secondly, today I am meeting a number of experts on a variety of issues. The majority of experts are in constitutional law. Those who talk about it without knowing what it means, what a constitutional decision is, what is the situation of the constitutional judiciary in our country and where else it is, are muddy. I saw a third line of experts among the selectors. There one of my fellow Members explained that selection was needed. He's already completed this selection. And now I'm going to say something complementary. The only thing I see in the selectors, who should have added something, is that when they repeat the same law that they have been dragging here and there since 2003, they should have at least completed it by the definition of'speculant'. This is a great understanding of today's debate and we have been given an explanation of what this is, perhaps Zicherl's definition of what he is most concerned about in this world. Maybe he'll be a selector in this area. We also have many experts in unemployment, especially among those who have not yet crossed the factory threshold or any material production department. That's right. That's where you have him, yes, and he's spoken before.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u105	Mr. Ravnikar, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u106	Then we have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u107	Please don't be insulting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u108	What am I, an insult?Oh, my God! What am I insulting?Oh, my God! [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Not due to material production [[...]] [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Yeah, it's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u109	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u110	My socrates from [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u111	Mr. Ravnikar has the floor, please don't disturb him.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u112	But Zicherl, who affords everything, has now. But it's also my compatriot. Then we have the criminal law experts here. My fellow Member, Györek, which I am not accustomed to with him today in this debate and in this event recognized as yesterday a young man there on the other side, who is constantly wearing only black robes, yesterday was a crime, [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Today was [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u113	Mr. Ravnikar, second warning. Don't be insulting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, Comrade Györek recognized national treachery. Yeah, let a man file a complaint like I told him yesterday. Let him press charges. And there's something else I'd say to all the guardians for proportionality. No one, and no instance, cited there, a respected colleague of Dr. Gorenak, who performed on behalf of the proposer and said that he was being addressed by people. However, he did not mention such a case as I would now like to cite it. On June 13th, the newspaper Good morning was quoted, and I did not hear that anyone would be embarrassed to say that "domestic life is worth more than partisan life, that the descendant of the fallen partisan goes 800 euros in compensation and the fallen patriot goes 10,000 euros" and, of course, money is needed to cover such imbalances. No one's ever done that before. This was arranged within a certain period of time, and be proud of those who were able to share in it. I just had to deal with someone else at the time. Now this is all I'd suggest to you. Since 2003, you have already translated similar words, justifications in which there is nothing new, you qualify with a variety of professional skills, in which mostly there is no salt or salt for "the parish". Let's get this over with. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you. I would ask Members and Members to maintain some level of cultural speech. Mr Györek made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I see, Mr President, you are at least linguistically literate, because he was seen here by some of my colleagues to the right, that linguistics are quite foreign to them. But they understand everything else, including constitutional law. Man also understands that he has limited memory abilities. If the 90's name cannot be remembered between us, I would ask him to look at this or at least take a linguistic book so that his abilities, as far as vocals are concerned, are not limited to Slovenian, because European languages also include a few more vocals. Maybe it's too hard for him. But as far as treason is concerned, my view of what a solution means to be erased in this way. I also insist on this and have also justified treason in my speech. It represents treason because it is not in accordance with the majority opinion of the Slovenian people. Please! If you do not take into account the opinion of the majority people in Slovenia, then this is a betrayal for me. Yeah, then what's that? Then, obviously, we don't have the same opinion here about this notion of betrayal. If you do not represent the opinion of the majority of Slovenians, and much more of the work, that is 90%, this has happened in our Slovenian history, in World War II. Please, then why shouldn't I say, I define it as treason. Is that a sin? Thank you. Mr. Ziherl also responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you. Some additional information because some listen with their ears closed. There are three Baltic States of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. In Latvia, Riga is a museum of the Holocaust, where everything, from Nazi crimes to communists, changed very quickly between 1939 and 1941. But today, so many years after the war, even those who have not experienced these horrors will say that under both totalitarianism was the worst, the worst under Russian. So much for that. Otherwise, Estonia, where there is a similar case with 200,000 Russians who normally work and do not want to take citizenship. I don't know, it's a similar case. They just don't run circuses like that. How many times has someone gone into production? I have 21 years of work in Savi Kranj, where I spent most of my time in production, because otherwise I don't know how to optimize on new introductions, etc., rubber machines. I got the name of a technologist, a specialist, in between, because I was good, I also became an innovator of the year, etc. Then three years of work in Terme and, among other things, I can smoke a beach. Swim not only in Jesenica, but also in Thermal for the production of stone wool, i.e. production with all the stench, heat, dust, etc. The work in the office was only so much for the end, and for coffee to drink the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since I have little time, I'll just say what's on my heart right now. I understand the plight of some who in the National Assembly are cheering for erased for any reason, but I do not understand that some hope to insult the independent who have actually put their lives on the altar of the homeland. Some have also died, and here in public in the National Assembly, insult those who are not affected by acts of bravery or by their knees. You know, if you've got friends like that. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye. The topic we are dealing with today, one would like to see constitutional matter erased, not at all a priority of this position, of this government. I observe that the main priority themes are the opposition. I therefore find it difficult to agree with the price that has been given here today. I would therefore also like to explain some of my views and arguments that have been put here for this topic to be addressed. Among the reasons given for the need to resolve this matter, as proposed by the proponents, the sustainability of the finances, which should not be done, was also threatened. Perhaps you will recall some of the laws that have burdened our country's budget much more. Here already mentioned the imbalance between compensations for these or those, in one way or another, fell. I will probably remember denationalisation, which has really burdened the Slovenian budget for generations and generations. But we all understand that such a burden was the only logical and honest one. The country had to return to those who had been taken from them by her predecessor. And that's just some kind of justice. He must have put a heavy burden on the state budget and on the law of Jasbinsk, sold the property to some and distributed the citizens of this Republic to those who bought or could buy apartments and those who had to be in charge for the rest of their lives. Is that fair? Probably not, and it did damage to the state budget. Among the arguments you mentioned here was the price of gasoline, the price of vineyards, by people who, on the other hand, signed themselves under laws that would easily and generously spend millions that the state does not have, because it gave up for denationalisation because it gave up Jazbinski's apartments, etc., elsewhere. The arguments that have been given here are why the law has not been upheld, which would allow all the poor to receive such and such allowances to those who have low-income farmers and others. Yeah, where's it coming from? On the other hand, guilt must be cheap, gasoline must be cheap I don't know how people imagine that we still have our own fiscal policy, we have one coin of money and that's not the problem. [[...]] We don't play monopolies. We have a country. That is why I think that these mixtures of pears and apples and universal human rights are also completely depressed by some social rights. The rights of the unemployed are not linked in any way to the rights of the deleted. Those people who have paid contributions to social and health insurance will also receive all the rights from these contributions. If they do not currently have a job, they will still once reach the age limit and will be able to enforce all of this. Comparing these rights suggests a clear misunderstanding of our system in general, what human rights are and what social rights are. Of course, the state is not as responsible for the unemployed as it is for the deleted. Why? Because it wasn't the country that threw the unemployed out of work. The employer did it and someone else did it. However, those who were in the state administration lost their jobs and probably lost their jobs because of the misdemeanour, because the state administration is making it very difficult. Probably the one among you who's been sitting here a long time, you know better than I do. When we talk about the injustice that has been done, we need to know, and it seems very important to me that the injustices have been done collectively, and they should now prove their innocence individually after this proposal. I think it's true in every state of law that a person is innocent until proven guilty. And guilt must be proven individually. That is why, of course, the aggressors, described in broad and flat-rate terms here, were probably not brought before Slovenian courts because individual guilt could not be established. That now everyone, because we all know JLA was an aggressor, is saying whoever was ever on the job one day at JLA is an aggressor. That's probably how you can't share your guilt. Just as guilt probably cannot be inherited, so it is possible to increase the number of deleted ones. People who did not have an orderly status that was erased had children just as much as they did because they lived. So it is possible that we now have ten years deleted. Is that fair? But it's fair that guilt is inherited. Looks like someone's been detected in the blood. What kind of country do we live in? Is that some kind of "blue-bodden" ideology or something? Are we a tribal group or are we a modern state of the 21st century? Of course, children cannot be blamed for the alleged sins of their parents, and apparently some here are not going to get away with it, or they will never get away with it. Too bad, but they should be able to do so, because there should be reason and an argument to make wiser decisions in this House. The deletion, which was made, could not, of course, be made by the authorities of the Slovenian State. However, I cannot agree that if we acknowledge the deletion, we also acknowledge the guilt of all the people in the administration who carried it out. They performed it, they didn't imagine it, they were informed about it, they were at work, and they were conscientious servants, which we can't tell them. Of course, we can tell them that they did so with greater or less joy, but this is not something that can be punished. Those who actually imagined this and had this register, which was the Ministry of the Interior. They were then employed, but I apologize if I know too little, Mr Fatty, Šter, Bavčar, I don't know, maybe the President of the then government knew about it. This is my fault, not with the chiefs of administrative units or their predecessors who performed such a service. That is why I think it would be good to limit this debate to what this is really about. And if we are already dealing with some international comparisons of our situation, of course, it is interesting to hear the supposed opinions of some who are saying, yes, it is a pity that I have arranged my citizenship if I do not live smoothly forward. Does anyone really think that those people, those twenty-five and a few thousand wiped out, lived uninterruptedly in Slovenia? You could have heard a lot of personal stories about how this life was. If this life was normal, then of course I also have to say that the life of the previous seven-and-a-half-year-old must be just as normal. I don't think we can put suffering on a scale like that and declare something normal, but something doesn't. It also seems to me that such arguments, which have been given here, are so demagogistic, are probably not the right thing to convince us, a two-thirds majority in this House, that we will go one such sensitive thing as the Constitution, to change. This would probably be the case if the real purpose of the proposal we are considering today was to use any more rational arguments. The international comparison with the Baltic countries was, of course, interesting. They say the Russians have all the rights, they work very well without citizenship. That's what it's all about. If our deleted should also want to remain in Slovenia without citizenship and to live and work on a normal basis. And that's what made it impossible for them: normal work and normal life. And I understand that it is difficult to have a respectful attitude toward the people with whom someone was looking over the rifle pipe, and it is also impossible to expect that this would be the case, but on the other hand, it is equally impossible to expect that this nation would ever reach reconciliation if at least part of him who is still alive looked over the rifle tubes. If we do not find forgiveness here on one side or on the other, we will not come anywhere, not in relation to events from fifty, sixty and more years ago, not in relation to events from eighteen years ago. And once again, what was done in the erasure was a collective injustice, but innocentness should now be proved individually by these people after this proposal. It's not true and the wrong world is at least in the rule of law. The guilt must be demonstrated individually. And one more thing needs to be proved individually, including this damage you're talking about, the compensation has to be proved individually. If it is true that someone lived in Parachin and transported around with a tank or would like to, then it will be difficult to convince Slovenian courts that he is indeed entitled to compensation. And I'm not sure that any flat-rate compensation is good if it's determined. Why? Because some, even those of the minimum standard, would not deserve it, even by some or most in the National Assembly. Some others, however, are far more than just what would be determined by such a lump. And the Constitution, at least in my opinion, is like a house of cards. If we try to move one piece, then these dominoes can start falling apart and we will start discussing once again freedom of religion, freedom to have a woman with her body, the electoral rights of women and many more. I don't think that would be wise, which is why the two-thirds majority is what is needed to make such changes happen. I think that today's bill we are discussing is proof that this purpose is not real, which today has proved to be a priority of the opposition, which I regret to have no better work to do. I do not want to deal with this subject anymore, I believe that the Slovenian government is doing well, I also believe that the Slovenian courts will still deal with it satisfactorily, because I am one of those who believe in this country, who believe in its institutions. Not as has been said in this debate: "For me, the decision of the Constitutional Court does not apply." Is that possible, people of God? I hope that at least the tax administration's decisions are in force and that it is trusted by some other institutions to trust the police, the military. I hope this man trusts the National Assembly because, after all, the National Assembly pays him. I think it is necessary to have a little more respect for this country, especially if the love for it is as great as the words at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As has been mentioned several times before, the adoption of a constitutional law in the most normal way would allow for the resolution of all open issues concerning the so-called deleted. Today, however, we are witnessing much worse, much more harsh, wilder and more collegial rejection of all arguments and graves and wildly defending all those, especially those who, at the time of independence, went over the conquest, over the Slovenian state. The fact is that there are quite a few of them in this category and that they are defended in all possible ways from the current coalition. Today, all the dogmatic instruments that have accumulated in these long-standing parties have been used for this defence. In fact, I am not surprised by this kind of behavior, for today, in the early hours of the morning, I watched the repetitive Journal of June 18, 1991, seven days before its independence, which was reported by a meeting of the leadership of the then Liberal Democracy. And what terrible things Mr Šetinc said there, Mr Školč was present, Mr Kovac, I have seen them. All those faces that are still in power today. Of course, it was again mentioned that even if we were to eat grass, I do not know what else, that famous thesis of the then Liberal Democracy, which has now spread into all the branches of the current coalition. And I have to say that I have to respond to some of the shows by warning you that you've lost your head. To attack the Member, the President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and to tell her the lie that the MP from the coalition, where they got the Minister on the lie, clearly denied the truth and subverted the lie when only the President of the Commission told what kind of decision was legally and legitimately adopted. And Majdo Potrato will lift this sky. She shouldn't have said that. But she is still in the position of president when she has hampered all such democratic conclusions. She was working from dogmatic tendencies. After it was said here that some Members are calling for a renewed misinterpretation regarding half-time history, and in this sub-tone it was meant to refer to a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism: that this resolution of the European Parliament is a call for defiance. Then it was said here that absolutely no procedures should be reviewed. That's not unconstitutional. I think it is always possible to revise procedures where the law has not been respected. But why are you so hard on me? Because I saw yesterday, too, that it should not even be checked if Ultra's credits were secured. This can't be revised. He can't look at himself. The same logic, defend it, if I say so here now, tycoonism, and defend the issue against Slovenia in return. And this marriage is also a mirror of patriotism, patriotism. These ferocious upheavals from your benches testify that you still have a mindset, as I observed at the June 18, 1991 session, which the tone of which is echoed in the fact that on June 25, 1991, something terrible is being prepared for the Slovenians, a terrible decision. Tones and undertones were like czech, how some allow themselves to declare independence of Slovenia at that time. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, it is no wonder that some of these so-called deletions have also been said by the crackdown on the politicians of those left-wing parties that there will be nothing from this country. That it was a miserable country, as Todorovic says, that he was ashamed of such a country. And some of you are ashamed of her today, these countries. You're ashamed of her! That's what you say in your debates. No wonder some have succumbed to this. And the latter were later wronged because they themselves were not guilty because they were acting on the basis of the murmurings of the congregation of that time. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] The valves. That's why I'm calling for catharsis. I'm calling for a catharsis. Today we need a catharsis. Do not act against patriotism, against Slovenia and against this country [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you. Mrs. Potrate called in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was appointed, so let me say in advance, it is my great pleasure to see Mrs Irgle's face so that I can now tell her what I told her before that she was lying. She lied to me once again in the part where the decision she had proposed was not made during the announced conclusions at the Ombudsman's report, at the time that the two members of the coalition had left the meeting, and so was the vote three for, two for, two for, two against, two against, two against the coalition. However, when she was discussing today, she explained that the coalition had supported her proposal to adopt a constitutional law. Mrs Irgle is the President of the Commission, who should protect human rights. I don't take the right to take a personal view of things so that he can't see the truth, that guilt was done to those who have been erased. This is a thing she's gonna have to do with herself. What I have to say is, as a member of this committee, I object to the untruth - or because it has been said here as a matter of fact, it is a lie! And Mr Jerovšek, I didn't act wild. Katharza would be very welcome, but she's bound up in a catharsis of tragic guilt over Aristotle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I think that, given that I have not had the opportunity to replicate, I will take advantage of the procedural proposal and I hope that you will take it into account, Mr President, that such discussions, which come from the mouth of the distinguished Mrs Potrate, since I am the President of the Commission myself, will no longer continue. I know that the previous chairman was in great distress because he should not have stopped her when she literally broke out of what I said, which was pure truth. Respectable Purity! I have a feeling you've graduated from the gentleman's office. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u128	Mrs Irgle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u129	A dove from a lie. [[...]] And that's the main problem!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u130	Mrs. Irgle, obviously it's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u131	Here's the main problem. And to me to see at this moment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u132	Procedural proposal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u133	That I'm lying, it's totally unacceptable. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u135	In this committee, most of them have coalitions, and I haven't lied to anything, and that's clear!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u136	Well, that was abuse, that wasn't a replica. Mr. Potts, you've already spoken, even though you're on schedule. If you want to sign up, you can continue the discussion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u137	'Advertisement from the hall, incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u138	He didn't name you and you weren't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u139	Let him ask me if he meant me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u140	He wasn't. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] Yes, then go ahead, you have a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u141	I would just like to explain to Mr Jerovsk that I did not think about the European resolution, but I am referring to the debate of the distinguished colleague Irgle. At her round-table discussion on totalitarian systems, where she stated, I summarize by the media: "Communism was in some respects the cruelest totalitarian system". I'm guessing she meant Slovenia. And I must say that, if so, then it is an extreme non-truth and I would ask the coastal Slovenes, exiles and many others - or they agree with such a finding. We'll probably talk about this later on on your proposal. Thank you. The ad in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u142	Well, please, let's stick to the agenda. The word is Guido Kres. Please. Please, Mr. Kres, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm really wondering where we went today. As the word "treason, betrayal" was mentioned today, this word was repeated in the manner of overheating the atmosphere. We in the Slovenian People's Party could also start by overheating to start insulting. And in this way, when we use it here, sometimes I like to say "Hadhu policy" or "holiday policy," and that's what we used to do. We in the Slovenian People's Party will simply not be able to work in this way. We want all citizens and citizens to be provided with security. But at this point, when we are in such an economic political situation as we are, I think we should calm the matter down and, above all, look in this direction, so that we can be strong to overcome economic problems and also to the great political thing that we have with our neighbour. If we're not going to be united here and if we're going to be in here like this, I don't know, it's just going to get bad for us, in my humble thinking. Today, someone has stated that we do not say anything new about the so-called deleted. I don't think there's anything new to say. Above all, we want this issue to be resolved politically. In our opinion, the path is open to speculators. That's all I want is for there to be no possibility of speculation. This is the way we see it, and that is why we are also discussing it today, and that is why we support it. Of course there's a chance we're wrong. We'll have to get to the end sometime. I cannot agree that we could not reach this two-thirds majority and really talk about it and resolve it in a way that Slovenia is in a situation that does not matter even if it is economically more pink. You know, "sharp" is when you have it, not when you don't have it. It's too late by then. I want to say in this sense that we are spending too much and pulling this state treasury on all sides, but a little unbalanced. It wasn't long before we talked here about how to fix the farmers' pensions, and there was no money, and it was pretty much rejected. In this case, we are not talking at all about people not being justified in not being wronged. But we're afraid that this is really going to go into speculation and some amounts that will really be inappropriate to what we're talking about. At least that's what we hear. And when we talk about correcting the wrongs, about correcting the wrongs of the people who were displaced, we could make arrangements there somewhere, and we could get some numbers. It is most likely that those who will receive compensation from this will not be satisfied, I am sure that this is never the end, but somewhere a reasonable limit can be achieved. And that's what we want in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, you have already received all the announced and present discussers you wanted to speak to. I ask, on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, does anyone else wish to discuss the matter? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening an application for the rest of the time. It's 13. I think anyone can get five minutes. Mr. Levanic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I have listened to the debates in the National Assembly most of the time today, and I must say that I am extremely disappointed because the level of debate here is really below the level. I hope that together, given that we have a primary responsibility with our work within the National Assembly, we will correct this behavior. When the debate was mainly about the deleted and how we are going to resolve this issue, it is clear that the Constitutional Court has made its point and that the current government coalition wants to resolve it. It is not true that there are billions of damages, it is not true that people who have been against the independence of Slovenia are being rewarded in the first place, it is not true that those who have fought against the Slovenes and the Slovenians who speculated, etc. It is already possible that in a group of deleted persons appeared someone who may have speculated who did not want to take citizenship. That's what we're gonna find out from across the street. But it is also true that many people have been wronged, and this must be corrected. Whether you want it or not. Regrettably, this proposal for a law is a misrepresentation of the Constitutional Court's decision and, of course, that is not right. We're all aware of that. Above all, those who know what the purpose of the rule of law is and how we will solve this in the future. And it is not true that it is said that, above all, the situation of deleted persons will improve, that this government is only helping this social group in these difficult circumstances, and that others are essentially leaving behind. It is clear that a number of measures have been taken to help some to maintain their jobs, especially to enable the economy to make greater investments and thereby greater supervision. At the same time, it is also necessary to resolve the injustices that occurred more than a decade ago. I would also like to say that when we all have big mouths, we need to help the economy, but we have to ask ourselves how we are going to help the economy. Or will we help in the same way that part of the elite will gain the largest share of the capital and thus exploit the people who are employed. Are we going to help the economy in such a way that we are going to exhaust good companies and that they will be such businesses if the crisis occurs again in a larger crisis and they will not be able to function effectively? Will we help the economy in such a way that policy interferes with decisions made in the economy? Are we actually going to want to build all together on one corporate governance that will bring one different version when we come out of this crisis? Together, we must realize that people must be put first. That's not what happened now. Forming the facts that we are essentially helping one social group and not the other, but absolutely not. So I would ask you to operate here with arguments, because a lot of people have the idea that when the situation is resolved, everyone else is being wronged. Of course that's not true. It should be borne in mind that in this mandate, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice are dealing with matters under the rules that none of us would want any financial means to be given to any speculators or to those who in fact do not deserve it. The regulation of the status of financial consequences is crucial and will be discussed later. Above all, each of these people will have to prove this right in court. If it is proved that he was wronged, then the right to compensation cannot be denied. You're admitting it yourself. But I would like us to talk about what is true instead of politics and instead of the city of denial of truth. I would like us all to look together for the right way to propose better measures, measures that will really help our people and in a way represent the truth from the debates within the National Assembly. I would like to speak instead of eight hours of talking about three-quarters of things that don't hold, and maybe just a quarter of the truth that is changing, and that we're not all gathering political points just because we're looking at the next public opinion research, but because we're just trying to work something out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u146	Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u147	I must say that I am pleased that today I have had the opportunity to listen to this debate, which took place in the Hall of the National Assembly, via radio in the office, because I was able to turn off the radio when words that were not worthy of Members in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appeared. Words that explicitly humiliated people who had no opportunity to defend themselves because they simply did not have the opportunity to come here to the hall and say things to a man who used expressions that could not be different from expressions that arouse hatred on the basis of the fact that man in 1992 did not feel the need or did not want to, or could not ask for citizenship, but wanted to remain an immigrant as a resident of our country and together with us to create certain conditions in this country. The lies I heard today about these people not being here at all, returning letters to their addresses, as if the people who said that weren't at the center of what happened 16 years ago, 17 years ago. And it's as if they didn't know that these people were often constantly registered at a certain address, but they lived elsewhere because they had to move from the rental apartment to the rental apartment and they kept their original permanent address, a permanent residence, because they just didn't have a choice and so often the mail was coming back, not because they were in Bosnia or Macedonia or what I know where. So bad and ugly, evil and evil, the enemy was said today that I must say that today I was ashamed to be a member of the National Assembly. Because when people listen to such things, they do not separate those who do not speak hatefully to other people, from those who say so, but say, "You are all Members and Members of the National Assembly." That is why I say explicitly today that I do not agree with such a way of speaking, especially about people who cannot help themselves, who are weak and need more help, but not that we walk on them and spit on them and spit on them with the manure we see at that moment. What's been heard today is the normal psychotic behavior of people who need the help of proper doctors, I can't say otherwise, because as much hate as I've heard today, I have to say, it's amazing. And because of the need to vote on this proposal by the most powerful opposition parties, surely, believe me, for these very reasons, for many other reasons, I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Presidents, it is often the case that a procedural proposal is being misused to discuss and today I will use the debate to make a procedural proposal. I think it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because you can take this as a debate, a constructive debate. First of all, I would suggest that, as the National Assembly in such discussions, certain Members and Members should be able to find, for example, a slice of sugar cake or a lot of sugar, because such sour, bitter words need a few extras, because otherwise I think they leave negative energy that remains in this Chamber for a long time. I suggest that at some table you actually make sure that we serve with a slice of sugar cake, I think that the debate will be at least a little sweeter or a little less bitter. However, the second proposal is, in general, necessary after an efficient use of energy in order to provide a static electricity catcher in the middle of this hall, and to set up a static power plant, because the atmosphere is sometimes so electrified, otherwise unconnected, but so electrified that they would probably produce several kilowatt hours of useful electricity. I am convinced that the static power plant Jerovšek could significantly help to produce electricity from Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u151	Dear President! The debate that I have just listened to is true for me too, not only that it was not substantive and was not linked to the topic that we are talking about today is quite ridiculous. Especially if it's someone who has an omen in front of him. I must also say that before that I tried in one debate how it is not true, how nothing is true. Everything that's been said here today is not true. I think it's funny that we're talking about something out here. So the debater who spoke before me said that what we were saying was not true. So we're talking about something that's not, if nothing's true of what's said. And I'm sure that at least a few things that have been said here today are true and true. One of these key things, which is true and true, is compensation erased. There'll be damages. I read it today. Mr. Levanic, I don't know where you were when I quoted the Constitutional Judge, Mr. Guilty. I quoted from the document, where it was clearly written, from that document of his, a letter. It is also stated that it calls upon this government and this coalition to enter into a coalition contract not only that those who will receive compensation through judicial proceedings will be compensated, those who have been compensated or all so-called deleted, and that the state will be aware of its morals and decide to grant lump sums to all these people who do not have the money for the lawsuits. This was recorded by Mr Krivic, Constitutional Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I can get you a document on the table, Mr. Levanic. Well, then, please, don't say what it isn't. There has also been much said in the previous discussion that the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled this constitutional law and is leading this debate only with a view to buying votes. Dear colleagues, are we in the last election year? I'm seriously asking, do you think your coalition will last just six months or four months? That's how you predict, I'm just beginning to understand. If that were the case, we could say that someone is trying to raise votes. However, since we all know that this mandate has only just begun, and I am sure that it will last for four years, we have taken this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to resolve this problem in accordance with some of the standards that exist in the democratic world. And the constitutional law is the law that would satisfy this issue, where things could be resolved in such a way that people in court alone could prove what was wrong with them. I say again, and I'm pretty sure it hasn't been erased. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also convinced that if anyone has been wronged, it will be corrected. I am absolutely certain, however, that Slovenians and Slovenians, taxpayers, will not pay compensation to those who are not entitled to such compensation. They won't pay! However, if you think someone needs to be compensated for which he is not entitled, and you are always trying to achieve this, then please, the "complete" coalition, the "complete" government, and ask Mr. Pahor to pay their wages for these people to receive these compensations. Let them do it! Not at the expense of those poor people who have 500 euros in wages or even less to pay compensation because you in the coalition have imagined it. I have already said today that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted, was a politically motivated act for me and did not convince me. She didn't convince me. And no one in this country or in this National Assembly can prevent me from giving my opinion, even if it is a decision of the Constitutional Court. I have a right to say my opinion. And that's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you. Gentlemen, no, there are no replicas in the rest of the time distribution. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President France Tsukati. First of all, I must protest that you have not given me the opportunity to propose procedurally at a time when this was necessary and necessary. Otherwise, summer is a reliable time for very heated debates, and today has also shown this. He showed how and how we can communicate with each other Members who sit here for hours and hours. A few hours ago, I was met by a colleague who works here in the National Assembly and said that you Members were aware that you had been discussing these deleted for almost three months. But not three months on time, but three months on hourly items, if we look at when the topic has been deleted, that's what it's been since the year 1992. At the same time, I must say that I will always defend the rule of law, the consistent protection of this rule of law and certainly not support such a constitutional law. And that I most deeply regret and condemn the use of all legal instruments. However, in any way, of course, I must also touch on the fact that here my colleagues are very fond of using some notices and mail that have been famous even quoting some of the public administration workers, let's say, specifically, Matt Lumbar, as she has stated, after three times, she has sent letters and messages to some, but they, as you say, are speculators to overlook it. In the legal country, of course, the letter shall count if it is not answered once, the second and third times must be sent a letter with a return note. That's right. But if a returnee is sent, it also exists in the file and must also be given in the file. We know that under administrative law this counts and nothing else. Just like that, because I imagine, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, that you probably don't imagine your life without the documents you have, without your ID, without your driver's license, without your medical license, without your passport. Just imagine how and how we would live without these documents. It just tells you because I, like, met some of those who, thank God, had women who had their records and could only live in one way. But even for 15 years they were without such documents because someone in the nomenclature had just issued instructions that such personal documents should be pierced. And the pears and apples, I mean citizenship and permanent residence, lies and truths. I will repeat, we can and must not mix these two terms here and in this Chamber as Members, because they are completely different. Speculation in this way could, however, stop once if we want to end things in one way and as well as possible, even in this way. About the injustices and the repair of the injustices. The victory of Jelinčič said that the lady only received EUR 3 000, because she was in Mathausn and I do not know what millions to be paid or what all these poor people were erased from. I tell you, there's no injustice and there's no payment that could actually be paid back for some of the troubles and everything they've been going through. My mother was in Ravensbrück, and she didn't even think of asking for compensation. She said, okay, even if I didn't know how much I got, I don't want that money. Otherwise, during the time they received it, they could have rejected it. So much for injustice and not to do any more wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Levanic, do you have a procedural question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I must warn you, Mr President, that you have violated Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, because any Member who wishes to speak about the use of the Rules of Procedure has to take the Chair's word as soon as he requests it. You have not done so and you have violated Article 70, which says: "Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater," I am talking about the replica, "as far as this debate relates to his debate, if anyone thinks that he has misunderstood it. The replica has to be limited." All of this is contained in Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, and there is no record that there is no replica when the remaining time is allocated. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and, of course, when someone is misunderstood, that this debate has the opportunity to explain. I believe that you are all who are chairing the National Assembly at some point also members of certain political options, but this should not play a leading role because we all have the right to give our opinion. I'm not going to replicate now, because that's not my right, because I didn't get the replica, but I'm going to tell you that I was misunderstood and that I should have this right to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr Levanič, I propose that you propose to the College or the President of the National Assembly to change the practice. At that point, I'll do the same as Vice President. The word has Mr. Kampush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u157	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleague and colleague, Honourable Minister. I don't have an enemy in my life, and I'm very happy about it, but you wouldn't even allow my enemy to say such harsh words, so bitter, so bitter and so unfair and so unfair and so unfair. It makes it very difficult for me to imagine that some of these things are available to you. However, it was clear from today's discussions that everyone - either at the beginning or at the end of their discussions - mentioned that we were all united, that we needed to come to a solution to this problem, that is to say, to a solution deleted. Of course, when I listen to you, you're all trying to prepare or point out details in particular, and of course it's no wonder you can say that the devil is in detail. I must tell you that neither of you is the judge of what happened to the deleted in Slovenia. The judge will be the only one who will come so far as to be able to judge each individual as to what was the situation and what happened to him. I suppose we're going too far and I don't see any reason why this debate today would not be concluded in this common good thinking because people have experienced injustices, a lot of bitterness. I suppose we will be able to go so far as to allow each individual to be judged and, of course, to come to a solution in the end. In Slovenia it is necessary to establish a legal situation and deal with some important things. So when we resolve this, I assume that the economic crisis is the only one we should pay the most attention to. And of course, at this point the situation is such that in Slovenia a little more work is being established, companies have somehow started to exist and they no longer feel the lack of work as they did a while ago. Of course, there is a financial crisis that covers all companies that are horrendous. Now we have financial discipline and so on. It is anticipated that this financial crisis will slowly begin to move on an individual, and it is the individual who will feel the most and the worst. We are already at that stage that individuals are no longer able to pay the credits they have been hired, are unable to meet financially and are approaching individual financial bankruptcy. This is the most important thing for me that we should devote more expertise to and focus on these topics, which are extremely important for our future and for all those who are in such a state and for all those who might be better suited and quicker to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u159	Your Honor! Discussions in this Chamber today do not contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly, Members and Members. And also because of the low level I didn't want to get involved in this treatment, because of the easy tampering with words such as liars, traitors and others, but believe me, I believe in the rule of law, I respect the Constitutional Court, so it's seven hours away from being thrown out and paid by taxpayers. You have also abused suffering and fallen into a self-serving war, including their families. You were talking about paying for all the serious stops in the camps, and that's abuse. Unfortunately, you do not like the word partisans out of your mouth, nor do I ever see you at any memorial events related to the glorious period of national liberation struggle, so today some of the nonsense that has been expressed here does not fall within this agenda. But for all I'm saying, I won't let anyone confuse me with a traitor or a liar and similar nicknames. If you are prepared for anyone to use that word, please state your name. How can you expect me to vote in favour of your proposals, which are eloquent, of course, in narration, with threats of compensation, with the announcement of a complete breakdown of the financial system in the country and other nonsense? I believe that one of the inn discussions, as some have led them here, raised their voices, shouted and roared literally, but this does not belong to Parliament. I also believe that, as my colleague Mr Pojbič has repeatedly said, he is sure of a lot of things, you are sure, because there is also such an order from the summit and that your conviction is as it is, and I respect it. I'll vote against it. I publicly stress that these primitives have not touched me here today in this Chamber, so I am not changing my position on the rule of law. Actually, God help you!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u161	According to the starting point given to me by a respected forerunner in the name of the good God, I will add something from the Scriptures myself. For the Bible says that every father of a lost son is most happy when he returns. And so in this spirit, on behalf of all of us, let me welcome very nicely our lost Minister of the Interior, who returned to this place after more than five hours of absence, when we did not have any interlocutor at all from the Government in the entire debate, which is also a very interesting information. I certainly do not condemn her in any way, which is also in harmony with the Bible’s tradition. On the contrary, I must say that I understand it very much, because the two key arguments with which it defended itself during its interpretation, namely, for the first time not to discuss constitutional decisions but to be implemented, and for the other, that the decisions issued had absolutely nothing to do with the possibility of making reparations, for at that time they revealed themselves as unprofessionalness and ignorance that there would be no mistake, for all those who might not have had the opportunity to hear it before. As regards the claim that constitutional decisions are not being discussed, I quote the textbook on constitutional law, which touches on the constitutional starting points of public law, namely "The general and public criticism of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which can be expressed by anyone, to politics," that is, to politics even in the first place, "media, citizens and, of course, qualified representatives of legal science." So much for the incompetence and ignorance of those who claimed that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should not be discussed. Secondly, as regards the claim, which you have all repeated indefinitely, how these decisions, which are being issued, have nothing to do with the possibility of the imposition of compensation. I quoted this earlier, even in writing, here it has everything from Mrs Kresalov to Mr Potrč and others. Once again, I quote the ruling of the court, an interim judgment on behalf of the people in Maribor, which reads: "After the Court's assessment, the deadline for the expiry of the application in question began to run when the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision, found that the defendant has a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia." This is said, quite contrary to what we have been doing for five years, even at the time of the debate on this constitutional law and at the time of the interpretation, we listened as a holy mantra in the National Assembly by the entire Government and its Members. By the way, the matter will be even worse, let me mention that in the same judgment, the court also stated this: "After the court's assessment, the State's unlawful conduct caused damage, which the court will assess below when it also carries out the proposed evidence..." and so on. In short, whatever the end of this story will be, it is crystal clear now that any claim that these decisions, which you so vehemently issue and defend, have nothing to do with compensation is merely the product of inexplicability and ignorance. By the way, as far as all the big stories you've started to reopen are concerned, I would point out only this: that there have been mistakes, this is always possible for someone to be wronged, and that is why we have been in the SDS since the beginning, and with this purpose we have also tabled a constitutional law, defending the principle that possible injustice should be established in an individual procedure and also correcting it. But you can't do this all the time. And there was this fundamental difference between us all the time. For if you give things at once, then the decisions will also be taken by those who, as I mentioned earlier, participated on the side of the occupying party, JLA, during the war on Slovenia, in the attack on Slovenia, but today will be able to exercise the right of compensation on the basis of these decisions. This is neither legal nor just. About the amount that these compensations mean, some of you said vehemently before, none is large enough; but I did a good enough comparison at the beginning. To conclude, all I would add is that you also know well that many of those stories have been fabricated, which proves what the Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs himself said at the hearing for the Minister when she said that they wanted the so-called deleted to force very high damages, and I quote, "when the pressure was exerted on the authorities, they just had to invent some things." It's a quote from her [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Mencinger has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I must say that I am pleased that colleague Breda Pecan said that she is being framed by some impatient debates, probably thinking of gentlemen of her own kind back there and of colleagues who have performed so impatiently here today. If she meant her own kind, then it's positive. From these discussions today, I have not understood some tolerance, some willingness to think constructively, which would lead to a goal that would lead to a solution. You have barricaded yourself on the trenches and strict defenses of all, including those who were among the invaders of the country, who said that Slovenia would be a miserable country where the inhabitants would eat grass. And I'm not surprised that you're in such positions, and I'm not surprised now that I understand Mr Luksic's statements now that the party of Social Democrats has missed the opportunity for intellectual reconstruction, in Saturday's interview, that she's gone low, that reason has become a third-rate member of the party. Of course, I am not surprised that I then read that Mr Lukšič's appearance on the posters of Work is already an advertisement for Mr Dimovski's future client, in which Mr Lukšič, too, says in some media, intends to enter. I have to say, at the time he was [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u164	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u165	That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u166	The agenda is well known.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u167	When Mr Lukšič was still an ideological party and personal adviser to Mr Pahor, Mr Pahor defended the constitutional law for the solution of the deleted. Impatience, the dogmaticity that prevailed when you gave up intellectual transformation, of course led the client to different positions. You've been very explicit about these positions today. Intolerance has become the trademark of this party, the humiliation and insults of others as well. That is why, of course, I must tell my colleague Yuri, who has apostrophated me and who proposes to static energy hunters that it is his great accident, that there are no hunters for "Jourry of stupidity". The Jurij static power plant has an extremely low potential energy supply and thus shows that the country's large investment has not been paid off. In fact, it has increased only the public debt, but the benefits of this power plant will be greatly improved if it succeeds in converting to a new fuel called "Jury of stupidity". There's a lot of this fuel, and it's cheap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. After such pearls of parliamentary debate, of course, it is difficult to add anything, but the fairy tales have been much today, and let's go to the facts. One key evidence is the opinion of a German constitutional expert, who speaks of the decisions taken by the Constitutional Courts to benefit from the debates. I agree. I have a copy of Radio Slovenia, Events and Reflections, 7. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 4 / 15 Most frequently cited by the opposition, constitutional experts, including Dr. Tone Jerovšek, they agree that, of course, complementary decisions are the right and the right path. Dr. Tone Jerovšek, as quoted most often, said, literally: "We are in the course of time and, given their different, more extensive interpretation of this decision, we could say that it would be possible for those with regulated status to issue supplementary decisions." Of course, Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Dr. Miro Cerar and Dr. Pirnat spoke about this. Many times today there have been sounds of self - conquest, self - conquerors. Since I was one of them, I would ask all those who comment on this to say, at the beginning, when they present themselves, to say, this and this, at the time I belonged to this headquarters of civil protection and this unit. I must say that a number of those who should look at where the end of the Danube or Celovska is physical or with thoughts at that time, I am sure that many are at the wrong end. I must say, the debate between us is the most noble one of us, and he spoke of the depraved and the scum and confused the terms of Dachau, Mauthausn, and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] With the same expressions that we heard here today, those who sent people to camps, operated and named them in 1941. We thought that this story would never happen again, and the debate on deleted is the subject where we simply need to cut it. There were also many interesting opinions on human rights, but some confused them with economic and financial theories. Public finances were also at the forefront. I've already told you once this week that this concern needs to start right after independence. To clear up this and other original sins and, of course, to finally answer where millions and millions of German marks went from the arms trade. Because there were many references to duality and how it was done at the time. We have several ten independents in Slovenia who have not been granted citizenship for the prize because they fought for this country. But of course, there's other information. [[Source: Youth 2004]] "How could some JNA officers who participated in the aggression against Slovenia get a job at the Ministry of Defence and Citizenship after the war in June 1991, but a few ten territorialists who defended Slovenia against the JNA officers agreed among the deleted and are still without rights today." The loudest, once again, probably for the past decade in this National Assembly, I call and ask that the names of those who have shed the blood of the Slovenes and the Slovenians and are among those who have been erased for God's sake. Apparently, they can't tell themselves those names, but they can tell me them in the hallways, quietly, and I'll be able to do so much bravery, and I'll point them out with my finger, my name, and my name to get them out of these status quos. However, I am pleased that the ministry, when issuing these supplementary decisions, also checks the stories individually, and that not all of them were received at once and all in the package, but that the problems are investigated, as is fair and right. There was also a lot of talk about compensation for survivors from Nazi, fascist concentration camps. These are, of course, internationally-legally determined and are not individually determined in Slovenia, as some of you have mentioned. Above all, let the teaching story be that whenever the opposition is in crisis, they will warm up. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you. Madam Minister has the floor. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u171	Please, Mr President, warn my speaker and express your protest over his words, because it was a typical abuse of procedure. In fact, he asks a rhetorical question, which, of course, we do not have the opportunity to answer, because the debate is closed, nor is the possibility of a replica anymore. And how can we do so? This is a pure abuse of procedure in this case and, of course, this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u172	Mr Grimes, I've heard a much more insulting statement at this time, and it's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u173	All right, Mr. Preacher, he knows very well, too, that in the case of individual names, there were also lawsuits, even absurd lawsuits. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u174	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u175	Of course, because I gave it to warn my forerunner that it was about, in his words, an abuse of procedure, because it is essential for the public who is following us, because otherwise it gives the impression that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u176	And I think that's what you've done. [[...]] Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u177	All due respect! I could talk about the same things as two months ago, but I won't. We could talk about compensation again, but I won't. The fact is, so far no one has been judged by law. As long as it's ever going to be, we're going to pay it as a state of law. I understand the pain at the stand of the opposition, because the issue of erased is slowly but steadily withdrawing from the agenda. And that cannot be prevented because the Ministry of the Interior, at least under my leadership, will fulfil its obligations to the end. Unfortunately, nothing is sacred to you, everything is allowed on behalf of political objectives, including hate speech, which has been incredibly large here today. The words of speculators, aggressors, criminals, guns, criminals, our people, everyone else. What aggressors, what ours and others, what criminals? I would like to point out that anyone who is known to have committed a crime and apparently today knows more than we do, in accordance with Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act, this must be reported to the police immediately. I call on those who know this to do so immediately, otherwise they are themselves violating the law and their obligations. The law and the Constitution, the Constitutional Court and the law, are categories that define us as a developed democratic society. A society where there is power of argument and not an argument of power, where politicians speak wisely and prudently and where they do what is right, not what sounds good. Not only the war for Slovenia, but also today's debate and tomorrow's decision on constitutional law is the fight for Slovenia, it is the fight for the rule of law, democratic society. A lot of fighters are the same today, but the fight isn't the same anymore. The rest is hatred, narrowness, politics of the worst kind. But it's one good thing from all this debate. Some of the MPs even turned into a library. They took some kind of legal book into their hands. Not enough. The quotations were incomplete, the conclusions were incomplete, the conclusions were wrong. Today we have heard twice the lesson from the book Restraint of Power, page 22, Mr Sturm, which speaks of the permissible general and public criticism of decisions of the Constitutional Court mainly by politicians. Unfortunately, Mr Grimes has silenced that last conclusion of this quote, which, at least I feel like it has to be said. The correct conclusion of the quote would be, "This criticism is as effective as it is based on actual arguments." And the text: "the less foam he has on his mouth, the more critical he has." I couldn't agree more with Professor Sturm's comment. Regrettably, however, the Constitutional Court's decisions have little more arguments and too much foam on its mouth for a proper debate. And there's another quote in that same book. German legal expert and human rights expert Mr Dieter Grimm says, the beginning of the quote: "The Constitutional Court has very rigorously controlled the intervention of the State when it comes to personal or political freedoms or when fundamental requirements for equality and freedom are not respected. Inadvertently, the Constitutional Court has brought an important part of the political and legal decisions under the supervision of the Constitution and has, as a result, subjected them to judicial judgement. True, but this leads to a reduction in Parliament's power and the power of the court, but on behalf of human rights", the end of the quote. Today, this debate has once again exposed the attitude towards democratic society, the rule of law, human rights and people coming from the republics of the former common country. Today's debate had little to do with the content of the constitutional law, especially the political lynching of people who were deprived of fundamental human rights by erasure. And I hope there was one of them in all this at least a little shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you. And the words of Mr Gorenak's proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Of course, I must respond to you at the end and again, Madam Minister, to plead with you, today I have already twice, I do not know whether your colleagues are working or what, please tell me already what you were saying on April 1st, whether you have made a mistake, whether your legal knowledge has failed or whether you have been politically ill-intentioned. You have said that your supplementary decisions are no basis and have nothing to do with the damages, which you keep repeating, Mr Sayovic. The court in Ptuj wrote to you that the injured party had only just found out that she had been wronged when your decision was made, that is to say, Bohinc's decision. And secondly, you said the damages were outdated, but they weren't, the court said that the limitation period would begin when you issued the decision. Tell me what happened to you that there hasn't been an answer in so long. Of course, we can agree with everything you say about the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court, the critic of which I take the right, I do, because it was also given by your President of the Government. You asked me to resign one day on May 5th when I was talking about another decision of the Constitutional Court. Of course, that is true, but the Constitutional Court went over the edge, taking the right of the legislative branch of power when it said that the decisions were issued without law. After all, will it say tomorrow that Parliament is being abolished or what? I don't know if they know the relationship between the branches of government. That's one. Secondly, to talk about arms trafficking, dear Mr Saiovic, since you have been sitting in this Parliament for 10 years, you have probably already been a member of two or three investigative commissions that have identified this or, at least, could have been if you had called. You've been investigating this since 1992. Find something, for God's sake. Maybe you don't want to find out. I don't know what the problem is. Because you can say, Janez Janša, of course, the arms trade. Yeah, we'd find something. You had time. And you're nothing. Then you'd better save the Finnish TV in the middle of the corner. Status check, of course, status check by the minister, you speak. Mr Todorovic also had a proven status, but he did not. And he also got a decision. In 1996, he said it would be non-civilisational to ask for Slovenian citizenship. And don't tell me about equality, if someone from Mauthausn gets 3,000 euros or something over, and Mr Todorovic 17, not yet legally qualified, I agree. Interest is one way or another. Is this the rule of law? Not for me. The comparison of compensations does not hold. And, of course, ma'am, as it is, only Mrs. Potrat was, and Mr. Potsch were my interlocutors in the course of the morning, I think that is correct. We told each other our own. You've been listening in an office, that's your business. There was no hate speech, not on my part, even though you were looking at me. But I've made it very clear that 180,000 people have settled their status. That 18,305, now it's 25,671. And that among these people there is a large majority, I am talking about a large majority, not all of them, I am not talking about a player who has played Rozleta or whatever, and similar cases that you have listed, which I myself know and acknowledge, but a large majority of them have "pulled south". And she came back when it started raining down there. And that's not hate speech, that's the truth. But this truth will at least remain for me and for the vast majority of Slovenians. I'm sure of it. And it's not right to speak any other way. Let us admit these matters, accept the constitutional law and resolve matters individually, but not as for Mr Todorovic. But, but, with thorough checks, what someone did and who was a speculator and who wasn't and what else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I'm closing the debate. [[...]] The representative of the proposer spoke and concluded the debate. On the proposal for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the constitutional law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, on Friday, 19. 6. 2009, in the context of the votes. Procedurally. Here you go. Then there's Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u181	I think, Mr President, that at least, given that my predecessor is very insulting, "whatever the lady is over there," I think the least is because I am in the Chamber and I have the opportunity to defend myself - I demand that you tell him that in such a humiliating way about his colleagues and colleagues he has no right to express himself. Nothing else!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. The content of the many debates between us that I would not exclude myself, because I also spoke three times, was unkind and incorrect. If I had interrupted everyone, the debate would have lasted so much longer. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u183	In view of the fact that the time for discussion is not yet over, and the provision on time-sharing does not limit the allocation to five minutes, but the time available to you today, and you have decided after five minutes, I see that the Minister also wants to come back, I suggest that you do this once again and call if anyone wants to discuss and share this time available, including government representatives and representatives of the proposer. For those five minutes, which is, is some arrangement in an informal sense, but time can be divided to a greater or lesser extent, depending on how much it is available. But the fact that you've set five minutes is something that doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest you do this or at least give the Minister the word he wants, at least that's how I understood after waving to answer the questions that were asked later. Well, I suggested to everyone because it's according to the Rules of Procedure that you can do it in any case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u184	Mr Anderlich, I didn't set them for five minutes, but they were determined by another chairman, which is not essential. But time is set if it hasn't run out yet, once. And once time had run out, then she had the opportunity to speak to the Minister, then to propose the law. And I propose that we conclude the debate as I have decided. It could have been five and a half or six, but it wasn't, it was five minutes, and it wasn't split all the time. I agree with you, but that's how it was decided. Has anyone else asked for a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I note that we have concluded the debate and that we will decide on the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the constitutional law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia tomorrow, Friday, 19. 6. 2009, in the context of the votes. Thank you very much. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary School. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Majdi Potrat for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 6th session, on 28 May 2009, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Primary School, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The College of the President of the National Assembly approved the reduced procedure and the law was therefore dealt with under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The Legislative and Legal Service did not have any specific comments from a legislative technical point of view. They shall determine whether it is merely a matter of terminology change and shall leave it to the Committee. The Committee also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 May 2009. In its opinion, the Government stated the reasons why the proposed solutions were not supported and considered that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport has also not supported the law in its opinion. It considers that it is not just a simple replacement of terminology, which assumes that the term "standards of knowledge" would be replaced by the term "expected results". They point to a possible conceptual confusion in the curriculum, so they do not support it. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. Representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council and the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of Darko Meni presented in the introduction a supplementary explanation of the bill. He said that in the Basic School Act it is necessary to harmonise the professional terms as set out in certain valid curricula last year. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Sport said, in an additional explanation of the opinion of the Government, that it was clear from the legislation in force in the field of primary schools that curricula should include, inter alia, knowledge standards. The Expert Council, however, adopted at its 114th meeting a decision to agree with the proposed launch of updated curricula, but also to lay down some additional content to be carried out by the applicants for the introduction of the 2009-2010 curriculum, which has not happened. The presentation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was accompanied by a reminder that it is not within the powers of the Legal and Legislative Service to assess or propose an amendment, to which we are also alert in this report in Article 2, and which was also mentioned in the opinion, constitutes only a terminological or substantive derogation from the decisions of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Since the opinion of the Government was rejected, it was proposed that the law should be dealt with in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure and, accordingly, it was proposed that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. In the debate on this decision, it was heard that it was not only a terminological change, but a fundamental conceptual question, and also a judgment that the Government had a conservative approach to introducing innovations in education and that it expected changes from the Ministry. At the end of the discussion, a proposal was adopted to conclude that the Law on Amendments to the Law on Primary School, which is being examined after a reduced procedure, was not suitable for consideration and that such a decision was also proposed by the Committee for its assessment by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the Darko Menihu Act for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished secretary, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, welcome. Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Basic School Act, EPA 300/5. Novela Law on Primary School is needed for the benefit of our students and students. With the amendment of the law, we propose an update of the curriculum. The Law on Primary Schools, which was adopted on the basis of the ZOFI, provides that curricula should contain standards of knowledge and therefore the Basic School Act should be amended as the expert board of those curriculums decided at the end of June 2008 at its 114th meeting. However, the Minister should publish them in such a manner within a period of six months. Minister Lukšič did not want to publish them, nor did he want to introduce a new law that would simplify terminology in curricula and the Basic School Act. In our view, the non-use of the new curricula adopted in 2008, which stem from the failure to adopt or not to publish the new law, has caused harm to young generations. The new curricula are more modern, are significantly more burdened by fact-finding knowledge, allowing more time for students to process and problem thinking and substance strengthening. Teachers need to process the core part, and in the second part they are available to choose for themselves what to deal with. So it means more autonomy for them. The Council of Experts shall be responsible for the establishment of curricula. The Council of Experts has already established curriculums for primary school, as the Government acknowledges, in June 2008. Both the Government and the Minister by not publishing and resisting the professional council, which recognised the curricula as appropriate and therefore appointed them. With an unheard-of arrogance, it is said that it abolishes the professional council, which consists of experts with the best references. He despises and mocks from a number of professional subject committees that have also prepared curricula and professional institutions such as the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in accordance with Article 29 of the ZOFVI, is competent to propose curricula to the professional council, as well as the types of committees led by top experts from individual colleges and schools. In the old, now-used 1999 curricula, which will be applied in contrast to the expertise of the general education council next year, the standards recorded are covered with learning objectives, somewhere completely and some as a standard of knowledge are somewhat more broadly explained learning objectives. In fact, the basis for evaluation is the observation of the student’s achievement of the learning goals and the evaluation criteria that each teacher or professional asset does in its own way follow. In the proposed amendment to the Basic School Act, which updates curricula and is evolutionaryally oriented and will be rejected today by the reacting ruling coalition, two levels of expected results are recorded: the expected results after three years and the expected results needed to advance to the next class. What kind of school do we really want - a school where we will ask students with new and new facts, or a school where students will have time to think about new facts, take a critical distance to them, internalize them, and, above all, focus more on "how" and less on "what" because it is the latter in immeasurable quantities in encyclopedias and also online. Last but not least, as I have already mentioned today, once again, by adopting this new law, we will update the curricula for quality education, which is certainly what students and students, teachers and teachers and parents deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Igor Luksic to present the Government's position on the proposal for a decision of the home working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you very much to the chairman. Dear Members and Members. I therefore give the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act notes that it has been applied by the applicants to those provisions of the Basic School Act relating to the term standards of knowledge and the proposer in all those articles to replace the expected results with the deadline. So this is a conceptual difference that, as we see it, is also observed by the proponents, otherwise we would not go to propose changes to the law. So it's a conceptual difference, and there's absolutely no minor correction where we just change words. The definition of knowledge standards in curricula refers to one of the most sensitive areas of teaching work, namely the area of verification and evaluation of knowledge. The bill that we have on the table is therefore not merely a formal coordination of the diction of individual articles. The curriculum is not substantive, but process-oriented. Therefore, it is so important that knowledge standards are clearly defined and are based on operational objectives at the level of achievement that they are verifiable and can therefore be the basis for verification and evaluation of attainable objectives at a certain level of knowledge. The development and individual differences between pupils and pupils, the hierarchical building of content and life, i.e. the possibility of transferring knowledge into practice, must be taken into account by the professions in the design of standards. Knowledge standards in learning plans serve as a teacher's assessment of knowledge and national knowledge testing while at the same time allowing for the international comparability of the achievements of our students. So when we talk about the conceptual issue, it's the whole building on which our system is based. The expected results can thus only be a guide for the teacher to guide the way in which he is taught, but they cannot be criteria for assessing whether an individual student has acquired that knowledge, i.e. a standard that enables and ensures that he is able to introduce the substance in the next class or the next level of education. In the comparative analyses presented in the draft law, the use of individual concepts, such as "learning outcomes", is inconsistent and uncoherent, as this is not the least evidence of the comparisons included in the proposed proposal, for example, stating that all students, pardon, all curricula have objectives, which is an indisputable fact. At the same time, these comparisons also show that in all those countries there are certain ways of assessing, standards of knowledge, such as the UK. So all countries have certain knowledge standards, but in different language variants. Similarly, in the case of Sweden, where learning plans also include "goes to attain" where the applicant himself notes that it is the minimum achievements of the student which enable him to advance to the next class or the next level of education. In all of this, of course, it is the worst thing for the proposers to put 106 existing curriculums in an illegal position by adopting or proposing these amendments, in order to legalise 29 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] legalized 106. [[...]] In view of all the above, the Government opposes the proposal for a law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group considers that the proposal for a law amending the Basic School Act is inappropriate for further consideration. This is highlighted by the fact that the existing legislation already clearly defines the individual elements of learning plans whose role and importance is clearly placed in the concept of educational work. Learning plans are not substantive, but process-oriented, targeted, so much more important that knowledge standards based on operational objectives are clearly defined at the level of achievement. Not least, they are verifiable and can therefore form the basis for verifying and assessing the achievement of the objectives at a certain level of knowledge. The knowledge standards set out in the curricula serve as a teacher's evaluation of knowledge and, last but not least, national knowledge testing while at the same time allowing for the international comparability of our students' achievements. Clearly defined standards of knowledge are also crucial in directing children with specific programmes and specific programmes that provide them with opportunities for better integration into the education and education system: how many students, students reach the standards of knowledge, is reflected in the demonstrated knowledge at the time of verification or evaluation; how the teacher should be and how the teacher should adapt to the teaching of the individual learner and learner, given the knowledge shown and the individual differences between them. The proposed replacement of knowledge standards with expected results, according to our assessment, causes conceptual confusion as well as the lack of transparency of knowledge achieved by students and students. These are therefore the main arguments on the basis of which the DeSUS Group decides that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Clearly, this is a point that will not be very controversial, because, as I see it, more or less, we all agree with the above, including what Mr Minister has said. Therefore, also in the SNS, the Slovenian National Party, we propose not to adopt or support the amendment of the Basic School Act. This is a replacement of the terms'standards of knowledge' and 'expected results', which would mean conceptual confusion and, above all, in curricula where standards are primarily relevant in the verification of knowledge and evaluation of pupils. As has already been said today, the proposed replacement of these two concepts of "standard of knowledge", "expected results", also causes some conceptual confusion, as the expected results set out guidelines to be taken into account by the teacher in the teaching process itself, i.e. what is defined in the applicable legislation and in the curriculum with the objectives of the subject. The exchange of expressions would result not only in some confusion but also in the lack of transparency of the knowledge of the learner, the students. It is estimated that this intervention will somehow confuse the learning process and the evaluation of knowledge assessment, which have specific roles, objectives and strategies in teaching practice. Not to repeat my predecessors, I believe that this is a conceptual issue relating to teaching work, namely the area of verification, evaluation, and therefore I do not think it is necessary that I do not know here how much attention we are paying to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u195	Mr. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group is that the bill proposes only a change in terminology, but we need to know that this is an area because the change in certain terms also brings major changes to the concept of pedagogical work in primary schools. The proposed term "expected results" means a more individual approach in the student evaluation system, which we agree with. We also agree with the introduction of this term into the primary school law, because there is currently a terminological discrepancy between the text of certain articles of the law and the updated curriculum for primary school. For the profession has named some terms differently and the law must follow this development of pedagogical knowledge. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the Ministry of Education and Sport is simply looking for excuses for not making any changes to the law themselves. Of course, we don't know if there are any changes because they're preparing a different concept or because they don't want the news at all. The excuse that the matter must be regulated in a comprehensive and effective manner is not in place, since the Ministry is the one that could already prepare these comprehensive and effective changes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the proposal that we are considering today for a simple reason because we do not want to give silence to ministries that are just waiting and waiting for things to be settled on their own. It may also be a form of pressure or at least warn that there is not enough awareness of how certain solutions need to be regulated, but that these solutions need to be prepared and implemented through the legislative process and, of course, into practice in order to come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary of State. As a justification for the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary School, the applicants state that in the Basic School Act it is necessary to harmonise the professional terms laid down by certain curricula last year. The applicants intervened in those provisions of the Basic School Act, which refer to the term'standards of knowledge' and replace the term 'expected results'. This would provide a legal basis for the Minister to adopt updated curricula set out by the Slovenian Professional Council for General Education in June 2008, thereby enabling their use in primary schools to take place as early as the 2009-2010 school year. However, at the LDS Club, we estimate that the amendment of the Basic School Act does not involve formal coordination of the diction of individual articles and the technical replacement of individual terms, but rather changes to fundamental substantive and systemic solutions that now regulate the legal basis of the primary school. So one is about terminology changes, but it's about important substantive changes. The proposed replacement of "standards of knowledge" with "expected results" thus leads to potential confusion, as the expected results determine the orientations to be taken into account by the teacher in the teaching process. It has already been said, so our Group's position is consistent with what many of the views of other parliamentary groups, that the exchange of terms means conceptual confusion, the lack of transparency of the knowledge achieved by students and students, and that this intervention is confused by the processes of teaching and the verification and evaluation of knowledge, which have a specific role, objectives and strategies in teaching practice and theory. The expected results can thus only guide the teacher to guide the way in which he is taught, but they cannot be criteria for assessing whether an individual student has acquired that knowledge, i.e. the standards of knowledge that enable and ensure that he is able to acquire the substance in the next class or the next level of education. The knowledge standards set out in the curricula serve teachers in assessing knowledge and national knowledge testing while at the same time allowing for the international comparability of the achievements of our students. Therefore, it is not easy to replace them with the expected results. The view that the expected results should highlight an individual level, i.e. the personal growth of an individual student or student, shows the lack of understanding by the proposers of the objective of the subject. All of this is determined by the objectives of the subject, which are also included in the curriculum and are defined in such a way as to include the direction of instruction in a particular subject. It is clearly stated in this respect that the professions are those preparing the objectives and standards of knowledge. It is also clear that the objectives setting the direction of instruction for an individual subject are not the same as the standards of knowledge. However, the extent to which a student reaches the standard of knowledge is reflected in his proven knowledge at the time of verification or evaluation also in a certain assessment. Clearly defined knowledge standards are also crucial in directing children with specific programmes and in setting out programmes to enable these students to better integrate into the education and education system. That the content is not preconceived also shows that the applicant does not mention and has no concept of defining programmes for children with specific programmes, for example, a programme with equivalent programmes with a lower standard of knowledge. The proposer of amendments to the law is also seeking to base his proposals on an international comparison. However, international information on which elements include individual national documents, such as curricula, catalogues of knowledge, cannot be shown without all the elements of the curriculum being presented, nor can the concepts of verification and evaluation of knowledge be compared. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Primary Schools therefore notes for itself that all countries have clearly defined standards that are differently designated on the basis of which they judge whether the achievement of an individual student makes it possible to advance to the next class or to the next level of education. On the basis of everything mentioned in the LDS, we estimate that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thanks again for saying that. The position of the Group of Social Democrats is growing from a very responsible attitude towards knowledge and everything that helps knowledge. Our observations regarding the situation in the school field for the past are linked to the major unrest and frequent changes that have taken place at this time. The position of the Group does not want to be offensive or demeaning to all those many experts who have been very responsibly preparing new curricula. In addition to the new curricula, a number of critical comments could also be heard from practice on the basis of how much time they had to make comments at school. We have been monitoring all of this and there has been growing awareness that in this mandate we will be making changes in education responsibly, thoughtfully and on the basis of the analyses that have been carried out. That is why we have also looked particularly closely at this proposal, which came from a number of opposition Members and Members, which had a very simplistic claim and a very modest expectation, so to speak, that it is only a terminological replacement of "knowledge standards" with the new term "expected results". We have been paying attention to all that has been going on with regard to the curriculum. Indeed, in the middle of the previous year, the General Education Council decided on the revised curricula, but at the same time stated that by the introduction of the new curricula by the school year 2009/2010, the school year should also include knowledge standards in the curricula. This has not happened, so those who are growing from the practice of the former Ministry have drawn up a proposal for a law that predicts this most formal possibility that what is not in the curriculum is simply replaced by the expected results. But if you'll excuse me, this thing is not that simple. If the expected results are a direct consequence of the learning objectives, which means that the expected results are related to how learning is to be carried out, to achieve the objectives of how to guide the teacher, the standard of knowledge is linked to another activity, and also to an extremely important learning activity, that is verification and evaluation. From established standards of knowledge, a teacher may determine an assessment for each individual learner when first examining his knowledge and then evaluating that knowledge. And that's why we think it's not just a terminological substitution, but actually a concept on which teaching is based. And in order to avoid confusion, we believe that it does not indicate that this law is being passed on to the nose and that it is also possible to risk what has actually happened: that the thought expressed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, that it is not a terminology issue, but a conceptual question, has been given the indication that we are advocates of a conservative approach to education. This, of course, is a hair-attractive omen. This is, of course, a disregard for all those who have already expressed their support for the profession in their work; it is the profession that has prepared the curricula that the profession should be left to decide in advance how to help this embarrassment that has now arisen. But if we went into the introduction of learning plans without the standards of knowledge, we would have acted unlawfully. So we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we like to boast that we are a learner and a knowledge-based society. That is why, and for this purpose, we are depriving considerable resources, depending on our economic power. But also in this area, trends are taking on new ways, new methods and new approaches are being introduced, all with the aim of ensuring that young people who leave school have as much knowledge as possible, and that they are as ready as possible for the challenges they face in life, and that they can develop the skills they are endowed with. It should be borne in mind that students survive a good part of their life in school, their school day is the same as their working day, says the same length as that of their parents. This is not just a time of learning, but at this time students meet and learn about many opportunities and forms of social life. Therefore, the new curricula express, perhaps requiring an increased need to offer experiences of lifelong learning and a different approach to learning and, if you want, teaching. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education of 2008 provides that a specific part of the educational programme shall contain curricula, subject catalogues of knowledge and test catalogues indicating the content of the subjects or subject areas and selected content, standards of knowledge or objectives of learning and knowledge to be verified at the end of the primary school period and at the graduation or final examination. Similar definitions are set out in the Basic School Act, which also provides that subjects and curricula under this Act are to be defined by the competent professional council and that the term "minimum standard" is to be replaced by the term "expected term" in the curricula determined after the adoption of this Act. However, the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia is at its meeting of 12. 6. 2008 discussed Platforms update of curriculums in primary school and proposals for updating curricula, in which he also defined the term "expected result of knowledge" which replaces "standard of knowledge". This same expert council, which, of course, is not a political body, agreed with the proposed launch of updated curricula in the school year 2009/2010. But it's true that some people find everything difficult. Due to the lack of consistency, terminology, it is necessary to amend the Basic School Act. The fact is that it is a matter of harmonising the terms in different documents. It is also true that each expression has its own meaning, and the expression also has its own content. In general, the standard is, in this case, the standard of knowledge, in fact, difficult to define a bureaucratic content that seeks to achieve in a bureaucratic way some average and encourages or generates a requirement for factual learning. So exactly what international research shows to obtain or have students in Slovenia a lot of individual data, a lot of knowledge that they cannot fully use in practice, compared to others who have knowledge that they can better use in practice. They may even have less knowledge, but they can use it better in practice. The expected result, however, is more flexible, for the present time an adapted category with an acceptable learning threshold that allows personal growth and allows for the consideration of student personality differences. So a personal approach, taking into account the specificity of an individual student. This also means greater interest by the individual. So the student, the person with all the virtues and also the mistakes, is at the forefront, not some impeccable average that is characteristic of the bureaucratic approach and for another period. The treatment of pupils through or through the expected results is a modern approach and it is not surprising that it is of great importance in Scandinavian countries that are the most exemplary to the rest of the world. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of knowledge and the transformation of children into a whole personality, taking into account the characteristics, abilities of each individual. We don't want kids, we don't want to push students into some pot of average numbers. We do not want children in primary school to learn content that they do not know and have nothing to do with in the final stage, but at the same time we disable them through the system of developed skills that they are given and with which they are also endowed. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the above-mentioned proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Mr. Secretary, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I would not like to repeat the arguments already put forward by the Government, the representatives of the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as the representative of the Slovenian National Party. Perhaps I would like to add once again to this proposal for amendments to the Basic School Act that we could also understand from the debates we have heard that it is not actually going, as it may have been mentioned at the outset, only for nomotechnic changes, but that it is a matter of content words, but that the words with them bear some meaning, which is deeper, especially in a complex system such as education. Every country takes it very seriously and so does ours. The reasons for the amendment proposed today also included certain legal provisions that would lead to such an amendment. Of course, in a complex area such as education, it is always possible to choose between the part of the legislation that suits us and the other part that does not. However, if we want to fully resolve the situation, we must look at all the provisions in this area, so we think in the Zares Group that it is wise to realise that the Minister has decided in 2009/2010 that the Ministry has decided, after consulting experts, that it is not yet possible to introduce these changes, which are proposed here, because they are not inferred to the end. Of course, it is nice to compare with Scandinavian countries and talk about individual treatment of students, and we know that those students in Slovenian schools who, for example, would be the most eligible for personal treatment, such as Roma children, could not possibly get a Roma assistant or someone at school who would help them achieve the expected results in reality. And there is another set of such'specialists', if I may say in the footnotes, here have already been mentioned children with special needs, to which this law, of course, did not consider this proposed amendment of the law, although it was in the end that such cases actually justified the necessity of this introduction. Of course, we can think that school or any system is some bureaucratic restriction on our freedom, and there are many who could agree. However, we Members and Members of the National Assembly are probably the most aware of the fact that some kind of functional literacy is essential for us to be able to agree at all and that - probably so - we must all respect the same standards, because in such different ideological circumstances, we would never have come to any common language. It is therefore difficult to support such an explanation that there is some unnecessary bureaucracy here and that the proposed regulation will finally release all creative and creative energies, which are of course not lacking in Slovenian children or schoolchildren. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that it is more than a mono-technical change in the term, that it is a concrete conceptual concept that is not conceived and therefore does not show support. However, we believe that, of course, the disagreements that the applicant has pointed to will eventually also come to light and that all the professional bodies involved here in this school process will find a common language. If this isn't happening right now, I don't think there's gonna be any tragic consequences for a complex thing like education. However, we would not, of course, want such a legal provision, which is proposed here, to introduce so much confusion into Slovenian education that teachers, on the basis of this recommendation, should briefly assess the expected results, rather than the knowledge standards, assess the student individually, and this individual evaluation should serve as a criterion for admission to secondary school after the end of the primary school, where we must probably agree, but one entry standard of knowledge for all should be the same. So there is too much confusion in this law to be any further consideration in this House, so we will not really support it in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow, Friday, 19 June, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 16. Agenda item - First of all, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on higher education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 15 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank and a group of 13 Members and Members with the first-signed France, Keko, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Gregor Golobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u205	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members, the rest are present! Allow me to begin by thanking the two groups of Members for the proposal to hold a general debate at this June meeting of the National Assembly on the amendment of the Higher Education Law, because it is an important topic and a law that deserves a thorough, public and open debate. The bill, which today begins its regular parliamentary journey, is one of this year's most important legislative projects of the Government. It responds to longer-term expectations and requirements of both higher education partners and other stakeholders. The basic objective in drafting the law was simple: quality higher education. In this context, the international dimension is of great importance. The development of policies that are complementary to Europeans makes it possible for Slovenian higher education and research institutions to be internationally credible. This is reflected in better opportunities for Mendaral cooperation, integration, joint projects and mobility of students, teachers, researchers and later graduates. Slovenia is one of 29 countries that signed the Bologna Declaration at the beginning of the 1999 process. One of the most obvious dimensions and objectives of this process is quality. This is reflected in the adopted European standards and criteria and in 2008 the established European register of EAEA agencies, which now has nine national agencies. This was supported and recommended by the European Parliament in its 1998 and 2006 recommendations. Despite all that has been said, European standards and guidelines and taking into account the international dimension in the drafting of the law were mainly an external framework for us; the framework we respected was not the only guide in the drafting of this proposal. The current external quality assurance system body of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education performs evaluation, accreditation, habilitation and advisory tasks. Our proposal to create an agency is to upgrade it. There is no way to challenge the efforts of the world to date. The fact is, however, that he faced a lot of problems, particularly structural nature, which stemmed from irregular or even controversial legal arrangements. The appointment of members was entirely under the authority of the Government, individual members found themselves in a conflict of interest after office, which, together with the number of authorities, led to frequent indiscretion and difficulty in carrying out its tasks. Thus, all the tasks entrusted to the world by the law could not be accomplished. The procedure for drafting the bill you are considering today has been inclusive and transparent. For the preparation of the proposal in February this year, we set up a professional council in which all social partners, higher education actors, the Rector's Conference of Slovenia, the Community of Higher Education Schools, the Conference of Independent Higher Education Institutions, the Student Organisation of Slovenia, representative unions in the field of higher education and representatives of employers. The President of the Higher Education Council, the President of the Senate for Accreditation and the Director of the Secretariat for Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia were also included. According to the bill, the new Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education will provide room for discussion for all social partners and higher education actors, and the Government will advise on amending or drafting higher education legislation and other strategic documents. However, we are setting up a new national quality agency in higher education with a view to ensuring quality in higher education. The Agency shall be fully independent and independent and shall be a direct and non-governmental budgetary user. He's got three organs and a professional job. The highest body of the Agency is the Council of the Agency. We propose that there be 11 members directly appointed by the social partners and higher education actors. This ensures independence in the appointment of members and enables the involvement of all those involved in the design of higher education and its quality. This also increases confidence in the quality assurance system. All members shall act on the principle of personal responsibility and shall not be representatives of the organisations they appoint. The members of the Agency may not be appointed by those who run higher education institutions or make the most important decisions in these institutions. The other body of the Agency shall be the Director, who shall be the management or management body of the Agency. The Board of Appeal shall be a third body, appointed by the Board of the Agency, a complaint may only be made in violation of the rules and not in respect of the content of decisions resulting from the finality of the evaluation report of the expert groups. The bill introduces changes mainly in the external quality assurance system in higher education and the creation of an agency [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It also includes articles on external education of its own, the integration of all pre-graduate study programmes into a single enrollment tender and an article on the integration of independent higher education institutions into a representative organisation. [[...]] We propose that the National Assembly, after a thorough discussion and consideration in the future stages of the procedure, adopt a bill allowing the establishment of the necessary national quality agency in higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Miran Györek has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act are essential and that a general discussion is held with a view to adopting the proposed additions and amendments. We agree with most of the proposed amendments, which are supposed to represent the main solutions to the bill. The Agency for the Quality of Higher Education itself is a very sensible move by the applicant and we believe that it is absolutely necessary. I wouldn't be talking about the structure for a long time now, because we're not familiar with all the things yet. We are pleased to note that members will act on the principle of personal responsibility and will not be representatives of the organisations they have appointed and will not represent the interests of these institutions. I wonder how much, to what extent, in what form will this personal responsibility be - this is likely to be further defined in the debates. The professional services of this agency will have an expert, technical and administrative role, as well as a development and research role. It sounds nice, but it may also be worth considering how much it will cost, what it will cost, and so on. All expert evaluations of external evaluation, evaluation for accreditation purposes will be carried out by independent experts from the pool of experts, as indicated here, established and maintained by the Agency. Around these independent experts, we will probably say something else, that it will not be anything other than independent experts, but it sounds very nice and I hope so. A major issue in the whole matter is the prevention of conflicts of interest. This agency will, hopefully, really know, be able not to do that. Because, with the definition and delimitation of the powers and responsibilities of individual bodies, conflicts of interest should be excluded, because they exist today, I have already felt this on my own when we discussed the introduction of certain programmes, and Mr Minister knows this too. And if this matter is now regulated legally and systematically somewhere, then it will be possible to plan for a longer period of time for all this network of higher education institutions, their quality, their evaluation and so on, to be systematically resolved. Regulation of individual procedures, quality assurance and a more precise determination of the finality of the decisions of individual bodies is a very important issue and we absolutely accept it. More precise implementation of the first accreditations, uniform criteria and expert verification of compliance with the criteria, this would also be one of the essential functions of this agency and I hope that it will also be strictly implemented, otherwise we will probably define something more in detail. For the first accreditations, the fulfilment of the criteria for the establishment of an institution or a study programme should be carefully checked and further determined periodically. If these standards are not met, then with extraordinary evaluations, let's say what program to shut down or move it or something like that. Exceptional evaluations will be carried out in the event of suspicion of the criteria or suspicion of poor quality, i.e. non-compliance between accredited study programmes and their implementation or non-compliance between accredited higher education institutions and their functioning. Because today we are witnessing that this is happening, but things are too static. The Agency itself is expected to ensure quality of operation, according to European standards, according to the criteria for regulating the quality of the Agency's operation, procedures and time during which the Agency has to periodically evaluate externally. It is also acceptable to provide for a possible termination of membership for members of the Council of the Agency, so that there will not be too much, as I would say, concrete membership and usurpation in decision-making. And there are still things we agree on. For example, a public publication of decisions is proposed in an accessible way, so that the public is also aware that this is published, that it is easier to access, all the criteria and decisions of the Agency, which are also foreseen by European standards and guidelines. To establish and maintain a public and accessible register of accredited study programmes and higher education institutions and their data or evaluation reports. This will make it easy for students and other higher education partners to find information on the accreditation and quality of individual study programmes or institutions. Not to mention, there are still some good proposals, including transnational education, about comparisons with similar systems in Europe and abroad in general. So I hope that this will go to a detailed debate and debate in this National Assembly. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Magna Carta Universitatum, we've probably all heard of it. It was signed by the Rectors of European Universities, four years before the final elimination of the borders between the countries of the European Community. On the promise of widespread cooperation among all European nations and on the belief that peoples and countries must more than ever be aware of the role that universities will play in a changing and increasingly internationalised society. The third basic principle of the Charter states that freedom of research, teaching and design is a fundamental principle of university life and that, therefore, governments and universities, each within their respective competences, must ensure respect for this fundamental requirement. Freedom of research, teaching and design, therefore, academic freedom, and this freedom must be accessible to the university itself and to individuals, in particular teachers, researchers and students who make up this institution. That is exactly what Dr. Danilo Türk, President of the Republic of Slovenia said at the 20th anniversary of the edition of Magna Carta in Bologna. And what about academic freedom at home? There's always talk about student mobility and university professors. But only about cross-border mobility. God does not allow us to speak and even support the mobility of university professors or lecturers within our own country. No, no, no. This simply does not affect our Slovenian character. Existing Slovenian universities prefer to close down, frame their own staff with various competitive clauses and prohibit them from cooperating with other institutions. Why is that? Would it be so bad for a doctor of science who works at a university in Ljubljana to convey his knowledge and knowledge to students at another university, for example in New Town. In our view, this would be even welcome. Slovenia is a small country and this constant desire for centralisation is very devastating for our region. By establishing the provinces, this devastation could be prevented, and unfortunately it will not occur. It's not a big deal. Some just swear on the centralisation of the country. However, I guarantee you that students, for example from around Illyrian Bistrica, Krske, Slovenj Gradac or Lendava, do not smell anything about this centralization of yours. There are many who would much prefer to stay and study in their environment, in their region, and then look for their employment and life opportunities there. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the establishment of higher education institutions across all Slovenian regions because it is of interest and because there are real opportunities and needs for this. We do not stop at any limit which would be introduced by the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act. Of course, to establish higher education institutions, wherever they are located, they must be sufficient to meet all the strict criteria and rules. Some amateur colleges and universities where students would be experienced rabbits or perhaps European funds, we certainly don't want to. Here comes the Ministry of Higher Education, which must certainly set strict criteria, but cannot afford discretion and decide on the establishment of a higher education institution based on political prejudices. In Slovenia, there is also much talk about intercultural dialogue. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we always support dialogue, because it is the only way to get better solutions to certain problems. We find it interesting that between universities there is nothing that can reach dialogue and between university professors who simply belong to, for example, the University of Gorenjska or the University of Dolenjska, which somehow does not see the possibility of cooperation. Why such exclusion? Why so many competing clauses, when we are finally talking about knowledge, education, production and reproduction of knowledge? Why some kind of elite creation? For example, why did someone who graduated from the University of Maribor feel somewhat less valuable for many years than the one who graduated from the University of Ljubljana? Today this is no longer present to this extent, because another university has emerged and now it is the diploma of the one who graduated in Maribor, being on a higher level than the diploma of someone who graduated in Nova Gorica. Where does that lead? Why is that? Perhaps because of the fact that good criteria have not been laid down which should be met by all higher education institutions at the time of setting up or obtaining accreditation. If clear and professional criteria were laid down, then we could not have fewer - and more - valuable universities. The SLS therefore does not agree with the restrictions on academic freedom and we certainly do not agree to the centralisation of the country in terms of the establishment of university centres. We suggest to the Ministry of Higher Education that instead of political interventions in academic freedom, it is better to take a good look at the conditions and criteria for establishing new higher education institutions and lay down clear rules, especially so that it does not forget the fundamental principles of Magne Carte University in its work. This is all I am putting on your heart: it is better to admit that you have made a mistake with this bill and that you have prepared a better text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! According to the LDS Club, this is an extremely important legal novelty which is now under consideration to harmonise the Slovenian quality assurance system of higher education with European standards, guidelines and recommendations. This is the basic purpose of the law, as it is necessary to improve the quality and attractiveness of Slovenian higher education in order to successfully integrate into European higher education. Of course, the adoption of the law is also important in terms of the development of Slovenian society if we are to continue to build a knowledge-based society and the importance of this law is also in improving the knowledge transfer technology achieved at higher education institutions in the economy, which will be the basis for overcoming the current crisis and enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. At the outset, I would also like to point out and express a positive assessment that the law under consideration is prepared on the basis of the views of the professional council of higher education partners and taking into account the comments from the public debate and is in line with a large part of the higher education partners. With the current arrangement, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education has been defined as the independent body of the Republic of Slovenia with advisory, accreditation, evaluation and habilitation tasks. The law imposes independent, impartial and professional decision-making on him. In recent years, the number of higher education institutions and study programmes has increased significantly. One reason is also to step up the implementation of the Bologna reform. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education is thus faced with a significantly larger scope of work. There has been an increase in the distrust of higher education stakeholders in the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, which is intended to provide an independent assessment of the quality of higher education institutions and study programmes. In addition to an independent quality assessment, it is also intended to take care of the quality of the development of higher education. Higher education partners have repeatedly highlighted disagreement with the creation and functioning of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. The body concerned with external quality assurance should be credible and public and recognised as credible among stakeholders. The expectations and demands for higher education and higher education institutions have also changed, which is mainly reflected in Bologna reform in the European area. In doing so, quality assurance is one of the most important and visible areas of the Bologna process and will create a European higher education space. Ministers responsible for higher education adopted European standards and guidelines for quality in the European Higher Education Area in 2005 regulating the internal and external quality assurance system and the functioning of quality assurance agencies and other bodies. The main task of the agencies must be to ensure quality, but they must have sufficient human and financial resources to operate. They must be independent so that they have an autonomous responsibility for their activities and that their conclusions and conclusions cannot be influenced by a third party, such as higher education institutions, ministries or other partners. Agencies must have clear and publicly accessible objectives and mission, and procedures for their own responsibility and quality of operation should also be established. In addition to European standards and guidelines, Slovenia as a member of the EU is also bound by soft rules in the field of higher education. On this basis, the European Union, with the support of the European Commission, has established a European Alliance for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, which has developed European standards and guidelines with the other partners and brings together those quality agencies in higher education that work in line with them. Harmonisation of the Slovenian system for quality assurance of higher education with European standards, guidelines and recommendations is one aspect. More importantly, according to the LDS Club, one of our most important objectives in the area of higher education is that it is necessary to improve the quality and attractiveness of Slovenian higher education in order to successfully integrate into European higher education. The international involvement of Slovenian higher education institutions and, above all, the mobility of students and teachers is still lower than expected. The solution is reflected in the implementation of internationally recognised, quality and attractive study programmes, the increase in demonstration activities abroad, and the integration of our higher education institutions into the European Programme Initiative. The proposed legal solutions, in addition to the above objectives and the establishment of a suitable quality assurance system, also aim to address the shortcomings and weaknesses in the functioning of the current body to ensure the quality of higher education, which are reflected mainly in the selection of candidates for members of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, the procedure and method of appointment directly threaten the independence of the Council, as foreseen by European standards and guidelines. European standards and guidelines require the professionalisation of the performance of accreditation and evaluation tasks due to a significant increase in the number of higher education institutions, both at home and abroad, and of study programmes, there are increasing demands for their higher quality and comparability. The complexity of the structure of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education causes the untransparent functioning of it and its bodies, the world has no defined and publicly accessible mission, objectives, annual work programme and defined quality assurance procedures. The current structure does not regulate the general public's direct information. In view of these weaknesses, the LDS Club agrees that an appropriate upgrade of the quality assurance system in higher education and the establishment of a national agency of Slovenia for the quality of higher education should be achieved, in particular, by raising the quality of Slovenian higher and higher education and by increasing the attractiveness of tertiary education in the Slovenian and international areas. In doing so, we support, in principle, the solutions introduced by the proposed amendment to the law and will certainly be complementary in the next debate. However, I would like to present further our views on the content of the new law. Since the operation of the Agency should be based on expertise, it is necessary to professionalise external quality assurance and transparent operation. The responsibility and responsibilities between the Agency's authorities must be clearly defined. Expertise in the work of the Council of the Agency must be ensured, and we therefore support the principle that Council members must act on the principle of personal responsibility and that they will not be representatives of the organisations they have appointed and will not represent the interests of these institutions. It is therefore important, in our view, that all expert evaluations, external evaluations and evaluations for the purpose of accreditation be carried out by independent experts from abroad. As one of the very important criticisms of the current regime and the functioning of possible conflicts between members of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education was, in the further debate on the law, it will still be necessary to verify whether, in fact, by defining and demarcating the powers and responsibilities of individual bodies, we exclude any conflict of interest. In the LDS, we also support solutions to define individual quality assurance and link procedures in the law. The European standards provide for the establishment of procedures following individual decisions of the Agency. Currently, legislation and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education are not defined in their criteria. It is therefore necessary for the first accreditation process of higher education institutions to verify closely the criteria for the establishment of an institution or study programme and for those institutions for which accreditation has already been granted, to re-examine the external evaluation on the basis of which a decision to extend accreditation is taken. Since it is also important for the work of the Agency to continue to improve its work, it is very important that the law on compliance with European standards provides for the criteria for regulating the quality of the Agency's operation and the time during which the Agency has to periodically evaluate. In the LDS, we support solutions that limit the mandate of members in the world and that foreign experts will also be involved in the work of expert groups. As an extremely important component of the law, it provided for public publication of decisions in an accessible manner. This will make it easy for students and other higher education partners to find information on the accreditation and quality of individual study programmes or institutions, which will also allow for a transparent, quality comparison between them. As we support the establishment of an independent quality agency in the field of higher education in the LDS Club, we also have a meaningful solution to the role and importance of the Higher Education Council, defined as the advisory body of the Government for all strategic issues in the field of higher education, in which debate and decisions must be drawn to all higher education partners. As transnational education is increasingly present in Slovenia, changes to the law regulate the emerging forms of such education carried out by foreign higher education organisations in Slovenia and Slovenian higher education organisations abroad. This area needs to be regulated in order to promote the creation of a common higher education space, to focus on effective ways of connecting and protecting participants in education and holders of diplomas issued in the framework of this education. As a result of all of this, the LDS Club considers that the law is a good basis for further consideration and that is why we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u213	Have a nice hello to you all. The area of higher education has taken some positive steps over the past four years. Sadly, however, there are many unnecessary steps back or in the wrong direction. From literally ignoring the needs of public universities and colleges, even to trying to privatise individual elements of the public higher education system. In addition, we note that the two predecessors of the current minister have been very clearly in favour of the creation and development of private higher education institutions, unfortunately, at the expense of public universities. The two-faced policy of the past government in this area was the most eluded when, for example, Minister Zupan reached an agreement on the solution to the problem of the University of Primorska, which was threatened even by the exhilaration of the Rectorate and the premises of the Faculty of Humanities Studies, and its agreement was simply ignored by the Government because it did not want to treat it. In the meantime, the Minister, instead of trying to resolve the plot, would rather indict the Rector at the time for alleged irregularities, and the prosecution rejected the case as unfounded after the examination. The understanding of the creditors and the arrival of the new minister saved the university from the auction at the last minute, which was acknowledged by Minister Gregor Golobic and the entire Government, who had already confirmed at its second meeting in November 2008. In addition to this lack of policy relations, higher education has also suffered a critical decline in quality and an increase in academic confusion over the past four years. The modernisation of the study programmes in the spirit of Bologna reform did not take place as well as it should, since it was mostly merely an artificial translation of the obligation of the old study programme, obligations of Bologna requirements without at the same time introducing the necessary novelties of a more dynamic, more interactive, more analytical junior and less "piflar" university study. This was partly driven by lack of funding and partly by lack of will and understanding by higher education teachers regarding the spirit of Bologna reform and the opportunities it offers. It must also be acknowledged here that the Higher Education Council has not been a part of the role entrusted to it, particularly in the area of quality assurance and credible accreditation of higher education programmes. Due to its institutional shortcomings, it has not been able to join the European Quality Verification Network - The European Network for Quality Assessment. So that Slovenia is currently excluded from this vital European network, which, in addition to quality, guarantees national higher education system credibility and more widespread recognition of their diplomas at the European and global levels. We welcome the amendment of the Higher Education Act because of everything the Social Democrats have said. The proposed independent quality agency will be able to better guarantee the quality of higher education programmes, as quality is the key to ensuring that universities and universities are successful. The role of the university is to produce and disseminate knowledge. That's only true if it's credible and quality. The Agency will also be able to become a member of the ENQA quality assurance network, which is a key step forward in view of the current situation. Nevertheless, no marriage is ever so good that it could not be even better. The social democrats see the possibilities for these improvements mainly in some technical solutions that would ensure a more effective implementation of the objectives of the law. In our opinion, the law could better regulate the habilitation of higher education teachers in independent higher education institutions by providing for strict habilitation criteria to be applied at national level. In this way, we will best avoid the uncompromising habilitation of areas that are in the academic sphere, if not in the other, unusual. Moreover, it is in the spirit of the Bologna process that we believe that students who represent the only "raison d'etre" should therefore be given more weight in directing the work of the agency. It is in the interest of the students that the Agency ensures the best possible quality of the study process. We therefore believe that it is necessary to increase the weight of student representatives, namely representatives of the Self-Governmental Student Community of Slovenia. In the world of the agency, which is not an academic body, higher education must primarily be linked to the needs of the service and, above all, the knowledge users, namely, students. Since the time and opportunities to make these improvements are still sufficient, we believe that the law is quite appropriate for further consideration, so we will support the Social Democrats without hesitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, fellow Members, Mr Minister! Mr. Minister, you have presented with great pleasure the Proposal for Complementation of the Higher Education Act. You listed the frantic number of experts involved and the accompanying staff and, of course, you used the high words of the free world. We, too, have included a large number of experts in the consultation on this law, and, interestingly, we have come to the very opposite view. I'm gonna read this to you today. The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act is not only completely unnecessary but also harmful, as it is non-academic, non-free and non-European in its spirit. The most direct effect of the law is the liquidation of the independent Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, so that it will remain only a symbolic consultative body and all its competences in the field of accreditation and evaluation will be transferred to the new national agency of the Republic of Slovenia for quality in higher education. We don't know if it's a slip-up or just a mistake, but the current situation from which the need to adopt law is supposed to arise is fully distorted in the proposed material. Contrary to what has been written, the current High Education Council is working in line with European quality assurance standards and, above all, it has achieved a high level of independence in its decision-making, both from the Government and from the universities. This independence of the present Council has also been established by the Constitutional Court. We believe, however, that this independence is a matter of some interference and is the real reason for the dissatisfaction with the world on which the reasons for the proposed law is based. Compliance with the functioning of the current Higher Education Council with European standards is confirmed by the fact that it has just been admitted to the European Consortium for Accreditation in Higher Education [[ECA]] . There are also no specific barriers to inclusion in the European Union of quality assurance in higher education. The claim that the new agency is supposed to be more in line with European standards and customs than the previous Higher Education Council has already been challenged by the proposaler himself by mentioning the examples of Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Austria in the description of the situation. In these countries, unfortunately, we find four bodies in the Ministry, which are made up very similar to the current Slovenian Higher Education Council, but we do not find almost anything that would be proposed to the Agency in terms of composition and mode of operation. Instead of sincerely striving for quality, it is obvious that higher education is regarded as some kind of property, as the minister wants to get rid of the current composition of the higher education council because it does not control it and create an agency as a new body that will be more obedient to it. He does not wish to leave anything to chance in this regard, although I suggest that the Higher Education Council retains its non-consultative role in this role and should also become fully loyal to the Minister. The proposed law also contains a provision that early ends the mandates of all members of the Council so that the minister can replace them with people of his own taste next year. Instead of the Government's financial and human resources strengthening the current High Education Council and thus increasing its current capacity, particularly in the area of evaluation, which is of course being implemented now, the Minister will, with the new reorganisation of this area, suspend work in this area for a while. And even when the Agency is fully operational, it will not be able to perform tasks at the same level as in the cases of Sweden or Denmark referred to by the founding officer of the legislative proposal. The Slovenian Agency would be more than five times weaker than the agencies of these countries, while at the same time it is expected to evaluate and re-accredit every institution and every study programme implemented in Slovenia every seven years. In addition, it carried out extraordinary evaluations. This is of course an illusion, but it is easy to imagine that when the agency is conceived by the minister, those universities whose Rectors will have representatives in the world will simply look through their fingers to get representatives of the government, the agency's leadership to a college that will be politically less suitable for them, and the representatives of the rectors to whom they will find too unpleasant competition. And those who will be wronged, this is important, I will not be able to complain yet, because the proposed law allows a complaint only because of procedural errors, but also because of substantive, material errors, which is of course constitutionally controversial. The Agency will be so easily abused as a weapon for accounting with new faculties, which have developed through Slovenian regional centres, such as Goriška, Celje, Gorenjska and South-Eastern Slovenia, with the support of local communities and economies. But the ministers' proposal is not only non-European within the agency. The Minister of Foreign Knowledge obviously doesn't understand as a good thing, but as something to protect people from. The reputation of foreign universities and universities could only be applied to us by means of this proposal if they had previously entered into a specific contract with which of the accredited Slovenian higher education institutions. It's like someone's supposed to check or even filter knowledge coming from an international space. The application of a foreign diploma in Slovenia requires nostration after a study has been completed, and access to such knowledge in Slovenia is now expected to be further bureaucraticly hampered. This will, of course, also violate the spirit of the four freedoms of the European Union when it comes to the free movement of services. Above all, talking about quality in this law is obviously nothing more than a pose. What the Minister for Higher Education presents himself under the quality is evident from the provision under which independent higher education institutions would now award their own habilitation titles entirely. To date, they needed the consent of the Higher Education Council, which has rejected a number of applications for non-compliance with the criteria and thus protected the relevant standards. If this marriage proposal is adopted, any college will be able to elect any number of regular professors without anyone paying attention to whether or not it adheres to the applicable criteria. It is in the field of human resources that is central to quality, since colleges are not made by walls, but by people, as the minister denies already established standards and thus shows how little he really is up to quality. Therefore, the SDS Group considers that the proposed law is not appropriate because it is anti-academic, anti-European and against genuine quality. That is why we reject him as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u217	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues. Higher education is extremely important to our society. The higher educational level of the population leads to a higher level of social development on the one hand and also to positive economic indicators on the other. The link between the level of education of the population and active participation and economic growth is understandable. Investing in education is a meaningful and significant investment. We all recognize that fact. We also recognize it in the European Union. The Lisbon Strategy is intended for this very purpose. When real reforms are introduced, we can provide a successful and sustainable future. Globalisation and rapid change will be a challenge for our economy and regulation. In the Lisbon Strategy, we are committed to improving education and training and investing more in education and research, so that more people can take advantage of their potential, which will be good for them personally and for society as a whole. Investing in higher education and science will make our society more innovative, more competitive and more attractive. The Bologna process has been the response of European countries to the need to improve European higher education. The main objective is to create a common European higher education space. We have set ourselves several goals and elements and developed tools to achieve these goals. In some areas, we were good and comparable to others. It should also be said that, in a number of ways, we are also lagging behind other countries to the signing of the Bologna Declaration. Areas where we are lagging behind are, for example, the development of a national qualification tool that is already to be developed. It is true that this is the area most problematic for all signatory countries, but all countries with activities have already started. We're sorry, not yet. As I understand the aim of the Ministry of Higher Education, it all shows that it will be their next activity. The next area where we are lagging behind is the mobility of students, teachers and researchers. The number of mobile students ranges from 2 to 3%, which is so low that this makes us the tail of the EU countries. Institutions without mobility nowadays are not competitive and not attractive. We are also lagging behind in the implementation of ECTS points that are not properly understood and used everywhere and are not linked to learning achievements. Transitions between study programmes and levels and recognition of education and qualifications are also problematic. This prevents us from developing our higher education in a modern way, and we do not yet have a quality assurance agency in higher education that works according to European standards. In addition to all that has been said, there are still many open issues and problems that we will have to solve in the future, perhaps with a broader change of law or even with a new law. We hear a great deal of debate in the public about areas such as undergraduate education, placement of higher vocational education, doctoral study status, recognition of education and qualifications, transitions, duality and interconnection in terms of the professional and academic orientation of the study, employability, establishment and status of universities employed at the university, their salaries and could also be listed. But everything reflects quality. Quality is the basis and is a priority, priority must be for at least two reasons. For the first time, it must be in the interest that higher education is carried out at least according to some minimum standards, and at the same time it is also evolving and improving. If not, we can do more harm than good. This is such an important area of our society that the inflation of poor colleges and diplomas cannot be afforded. A handful of people would have formal education and their competences would be questionable. This is not good for them personally or for our society as a whole. Secondly, it must be in our interest to take care of our own citizens. We need to provide them with a fair system, and we need to make sure that the higher education system ensures that students as well as employers know what they are getting. And a third reason would be to add public investment. If we invest a large percentage of public funds in higher education, we need to make sure that these funds are well spent. We can't afford to finance bad institutions and some sort of academic program. This would not lead to the development of our society and our economy, but rather to the capping of other countries. We therefore need to understand quality as a priority. At the level of European higher education, quality is seen as an absolute priority. This is one of the main areas of the Bologna process and is also highlighted by the European Parliament in its recommendations. Therefore, the proposal for a law that we have before us, which has been drawn up by the Ministry, is a big and important step. Not only because we often hear in public that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education has worked and works poorly and is boycotted by rectors, but many others are criticising it. Indeed, the proposal for a bill in the Group of Members is only seen as a consequence of this fact. The proposal for a novelty is needed primarily because we want quality higher education. If we want quality higher education, we need a good agency, we need an effective quality assurance system. The Agency for Quality Assurance in Higher Education is essential for the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens. Citizens need to know what they get when they sign up for a higher education institution and a study program. And they need to know that by getting a degree they can also do something, get a job at home and abroad. This is also why the Agency is important for the recognition of Slovenian diplomas in other European countries. If a diploma is awarded by a higher education institution accredited by a credit rating agency, it will be recognised. If the Agency fails to comply with European standards, such a diploma would be a problem. Our higher education institutions will also have major problems when they want to work with foreign people. It is true that cooperation is also concluded through other methods, but the level of open opportunities without the Agency is significantly lower. The proposal for the amendment to the Higher Education Act therefore proposes an agency that will take the most effective care of the quality of higher education in the given situation and the current context. It is very important that such a proposal is supported by virtually all higher education partners. If such a proposal is entrusted to everyone who touches this area, it has a very good passenger for a successful future operation. At the same time, the bill is a good basis for the system itself; it allows for transparency of work, operational structures, the sharing of responsibilities between individual bodies and structures, and the expertise of action. It enables the necessary seriousness in the accreditation and evaluation of higher education institutions and study programmes. It also clearly regulates the responsibility for quality action that lies primarily in higher education institutions. At the same time, extraordinary evaluations are introduced in addition to the so-called regular ones. So far, there has not been much going on with the reporting of errors in higher education institutions. After the new agency will be able to make a visit to the institution whenever it suspects it is not acting in accordance with the criteria. For example, it will be able to do so on the basis of complaints from students or employees. It is particularly important, however, to take care of the quality of its own activities and to evaluate externally every five years. Only if it is concerned about working in line with European standards and its continued development will it be able to face the challenge of quality assurance. The Council of the Republic of the Republic for Higher Education is expected to have fewer tasks. It's essentially a different form of structure. It is good that all higher education partners, as well as those under the status quo, such as rectors, can be given room for discussion in higher education. Initiatives can be given, debates can be held, shortcomings detected. Therefore, such a body will be useful to the Government and its work in the higher education field. In addition to such necessary agencies, the draft law also regulates the field of international education. This is not currently settled, but it is a growing interest to see. It is also essential to ensure the quality of implementation abroad of accredited study programmes in our country. For we must not have a uncontrolled appearance of so - called branches of foreign recognized universities, which may be of significantly lower quality in our study programmes. We need to take care of the entire system of higher education in our area. The proposal for a law also entails the introduction of all tenders, all accredited undergraduate study programmes and not just those subsidised. This move is good in terms of informing potential students and the general public. The information will be collected in one place, which will certainly be easier for the candidates. We really support the proposal for a novel on higher education in the Group of Members, and we are pleased that its preparation has taken place relatively quickly. The Agency, which will meet our needs and which will at the same time be in line with European standards and guidelines, is urgently needed. It will make us more comparable to the other countries parties to the Bologna Declaration. We're gonna get more attractive. We will have clear, transparent and objective information on the quality of Slovenian higher education and on the quality of individual study programmes and institutions. Such information is needed by students and potential students, employers, higher education institutions, the state and others interested. We can also take a big step. For all these reasons, we will support the law at first reading in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u219	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, co-worker! Dear colleagues and colleagues! With or because we are discussing today a topic that is very important for Slovenian space, this is about higher education in this space and given that many things and many views have been said about this topic today, then allow me to briefly present these most important points of view to which the DeSUS Group has defined itself. In the DeSUS Group we support the proposal for a novel of the Higher Education Act. Among other things, this brings us guidance from the quality agency of higher education. It is certainly an act which we believe in the Group that should have been carried out a long time ago, perhaps already in 2004, but at that time the Minister of Higher Education has identified as belonging to this new Higher Education Agency, which he added to the Council of the Republic for Higher Education. We believe that the establishment of a higher education agency is merely an upgrade to this and that the transfer of tasks from the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education will be the right move. In addition, we are assessing in the Group that the establishment of an agency and the work of an agency, which is certainly of great importance, will be separate from political interests, since only two representatives of the Government from eleven members of the entire Council will participate in this agency and in the Council of the Agency. Therefore, it seems to us that the conditions for the professional work of the quality agency in higher education will also be added. The public quality assurance agency in higher education is expected to be established within three months of the adoption of this proposal. It is expected to take over most of the tasks of the Higher Education Council so far, which will be the government's consultative body in the future. However, the external evaluation of the Agency would be carried out at least every five in cooperation with the relevant international organisations. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the professionalisation of external quality control processes and the transparency of processes from the point of view of the functioning of the systems in Slovenia, from the point of view of the operation and presentation of the system in the international space, from the point of view of ensuring the information of those to whom the system is primarily intended. However, we believe in the parliamentary group that the agency itself and the work of the Quality Agency in higher education alone will not in itself contribute to the improvement of quality in higher education. We believe that this is only the body that will supervise, which will control and coordinate all the work in higher education. However, it is primarily the responsibility of individual institutions such as universities and individual colleges to raise quality and quality in higher education. There were, of course, many concerns in the discussions about the introduction of the Agency in higher education at the time of the recession or at the time of the careful treatment of public finances. However, the aim of setting up a Quality Agency in higher education is certainly to be higher and to justify these reasons, or these costs, which will also be incurred by the establishment itself. We would like to see this amendment of higher education legislation achieved by the DeSUS Group, particularly the comparability of the Slovenian higher education area with the European and the strengthening of confidence in higher education institutions. There are many things that I may not have mentioned, such that the DeSUS Group certainly supports the amendment of the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the past mandate, I was not only an observer of events in higher education, but often also involved in the adoption of legislation in this area. Therefore, let me first express my satisfaction that the proposal for a law on higher education, which we are considering today, has been sent to the National Assembly with the agreement of the academic sphere, and thus we can say that the preparers of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the providers of higher education programmes and the users of these services have reached agreement in the key things regulated by the law. And this is actually what the law is supposed to guarantee quality at the starting point. Whether the law will also have positive effects will depend on the sphere as a whole, because I believe that sometimes good solutions in practice can be poorly respected and implemented. If I am dealing with another past experience, then, in fact, the composition of the worlds, the issue of the Agency for Accreditation and Evaluation, financing, the issue of autonomy, the set of issues that we have dealt with most in the past mandate and on the basis of which we have also had the most critical comments. I do not intend to touch some of the things that I have just mentioned, because I am sure that the general debate of other Members and Members of Parliament will touch on this, but I would point to what seems crucial to me. The question of quality is central, because if we are able to achieve relatively well the quantitative goals that we have set before us, this is a percentage of the population involved in higher education, for example, the reduction of the study time, which is the weakness of our current higher education system, is a key issue of quality for me. I also understood quality as the central issue that the Lisbon Strategy deals with. I cannot say that all things related to Bologna processes have already come to life in our higher education space. I also think that not all the objectives of the Bologna reform have been implemented in our legislation or at least in the life of our universities in a way that makes them happy, I think, especially students. However, I would like to stress that I myself expect that higher education will not only be a reflection of the economy and economic interests, but that Slovenia's higher education space, depending on the number of people and the population, will nevertheless count on it to set quality in addition to efficiency as its advantage or priority. And when I say it will not only be an echo of the economy, I am thinking, above all, that it will not be the sole criterion or the only criterion for employment and labour market requirements. With particular attention, it seems to me that higher education should follow those matters of national interest which, in this case, are equal to public interest, and this is also a strengthened concern for all those study directions which are of exceptional importance to a nation and which will not be carried out by any other higher education space included in the European area instead of this nation; so they say that this single European higher education space should also be built. I think that the task is, however, to promote and maintain these national specifications. And in this context, I would ask again how to find an appropriate answer between how to ensure the mobility of students, teachers on the one hand and, on the other hand, to ensure all the specifics of national space. To think of language, it's in itself conceivable. The language, I think, has so far been too often just an excuse for the competitiveness or non-competitiveness of students who have come to our place after exchanges and not often the reason for being less interesting. Because, as I have read some documents, in the spirit of a single European university space, and in particular multiculturalism, there is also concern for the development and promotion of smaller linguistic communities, which, of course, have all the systemic characteristics developed in the same way as those of languages and systems that overcome more speakers. Speaking of quality, I cannot help but say that in the past there have been a lot of comments about whether the new programmes are in fact a qualitative shift or merely a formal adjustment to the new requirements, sometimes also to the staffing needs and staffing of individual higher education institutions. Here I would not want to speculate too much that I would not be taken anywhere, but I think that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is in charge of the Constitution to care for equality in accessibility and transition and under the conditions that students have to meet in order to move from one study programme to another study programme, from one institution to another. I think there's still quite a number of warrants. I am among those who have argued that the Higher Education Council has been able to manifest in many ways the bias, conflict of interest or some sort of work. It is not only this experience of how some have boycotted, but also what the public has learned from the members of the world as to how open the world is. Now we are talking about academic freedom and academic space, how much this world has been open to a variety of views and opinions and how much has happened in the world through the system, 'to listen and not hear', and I mean to 'hear' also to understand and to take into account the different or different views. When I talk about quality and when I talk about the Higher Education Council, of course I also know about some tests on the appropriateness of legal solutions and how professional services should be taken care of if they are independent if they operate with the Higher Education Council. But what is of central importance is, indeed, an independent professional agency for accreditation and evaluation of programmes, if we do not achieve this, then all the effort is in vain and the effort of many academics, students and ministries has gone to waste. I would like the Agency to become such a decisive factor that, with the appropriate powers, with the appropriate staff background, it is able to carry out the task for which it will be assigned. I am not saying that everything in the law is already so established that all doubts are resolved, but that we are talking about what we really want and where we see that it has to be or that the direction is well-guarded, then I think that the result will be the same as we expect it to be. Therefore, I am not surprised that colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party are opposed to this law and that they see problems in a different role of the Higher Education Council. You'd be surprised if we didn't talk like that, because they were passionate advocates of the current system and it's impossible to just move into another sphere. What I see as the biggest problem arising from the previous mandate is the lack of clarity and a poor distinction between public interest and private interest as regards financing, and also as regards the issue of quality, which relates to what a student or student can do with his diploma when he comes from such an institution. I admit that, in my previous mandate, I stopped asking questions from being sent at the very moment that I felt that if I continued with them, my parliamentary questions could also have negative consequences for students who were not responsible for not being included in certain programmes for which accreditation and all the procedures that should be carried out did not result in a stable and appropriate path. So this area is still problematic. I can tell you that I'm talking about one of the universities of Primorska. Just as I had very great difficulty in agreeing to establish a university in New Town, which was also done beyond all the principles that the previous coalition has interpreted as to where it sees priorities and whose study orientations must be particularly encouraged in the future, so that we will have a more coherent relationship between natural technical, humanistic and social studies. I wish the drafters of the law that it would not be a waste of time for them to have any more public debate and to gather opinions so that they can come up with such a proposal for a law that would last for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u222	The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the proposal for a law on higher education, in particular the establishment of an agency which means, in fact, the end of a period of irreconcilability, when higher education was, above all, considered to be a spoil to be won first and then cut and offered to the best private providers. The fact is, in the past period, we have witnessed such attempts, various interpretations and parliamentary questions on this subject are well known. At the time when Minister Zupan tried not to establish, as the former law had commanded, a public education agency, to amend legislation and first disguised these changes, the public learned that it was mainly about changes inspired by private stakeholders, in fact, at what level and how the so-called Higher Education Council worked. With the agency that is now being created, we will in fact allow professional and public interest to enter the area of higher education. Let me remind you of what was happening at a time when higher education as a public interest was not at the forefront of the interest of the former government. I'm going to give you an example that's an anecdotal and tells you what the mood and atmosphere was at that time. It even happened, and it even happened that for political reasons they admitted higher education to someone, despite the fact that they did not have such education. I am talking about a case where, due to the need to appoint an ambassador, they granted a diploma and higher education to a person, despite the fact that he only had higher education and had no conditions for such education. This happened during Mr Zupan's ministry. That's what we wrote the press about back then when we were dealing with it. But this anecdotes only tells how serious the previous government has understood and respected knowledge, expertise and higher education. Today, let us finally end this situation. I think that the academic sphere is very well aware of this and therefore mass support the actual intervention, which means strengthening public higher education, strengthening professionalism and distancing policy from higher education. This is why the agency is the best recipe to come up with such a guarantee, because there will be 11 experts in this agency who will be appointed on the basis of proposals from higher education partners and only in part, to a lesser extent by the Government. The mission of this agency is well known. Evaluation, which will be expertly and will leave individual areas to the expert groups. In this regard, the value of this agency, where there will be no possibility of the political abuse that we have seen, met and met during the professional world. Mr. Zorn, I know you're very troubled by what I'm telling. [[?]] But it's all facts. At that time, you did not see what was happening and, in fact, if you did not break that practice, you would probably find yourself in the near future with a higher education system that would not work and that would, in particular, serve the interests of some private individuals. That is why I will support this proposal, I think it is good and that it will come across the support of the vast majority of the serious academic world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the introduction to the Minister when he spoke of the Bologna Declaration. As I am aware, the Bologna Declaration also implies that study time should be reduced. In Slovenia and also in Europe, as I know, students are studying too long, they are not going to the labour market soon enough. And even with us, in Slovenia, as I know, universities are not adapting exactly to this declaration. Of course, I am also interested in how, once we have changed and completed the Higher Education Act, how will we better link the quality of studies to the economy and science to the economy as well? When we attended the lecture Knowledge of Harvest, the last lecture was very good. That's what made my mind sick. I once noticed that Iskra was aligned with IBM in the 1980s. Where Iskra is today, what IBM means, we can ask ourselves. Then we'll go on. In the 1950s, Yugoslavia was aligned with Japan. Throughout this history, it seems to me that we are constantly missing something and we do not know how to activate the intellectual potential that is reliable in our country. That's why I'm also curious about what you're going to do to make sure it doesn't happen in the future. When I was following a lecture on nanotechnology, it was beautifully said, from science fiction to curtain coatings. When I was still working in a company, which I have to say is one of the best Slovenian companies, working in silence, but working perfectly. And this company was just when I was working there, it was developing, as you've noticed, and you, Minister, were at this lecture on colors when you could paint the walls and graphite. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I didn't know what it was then. [[..]] But now I've seen what it is -- nanoscrapers, 2% of nanoscrapers have led to this happening in this segment. When I watched how much could even be done in medicine, I watched the graph where Slovenia is currently, we are in the middle of European countries. So we're in a good position. Switzerland invests the most. And then I got tired of the thought of what this means - Switzerland's moisture, Switzerland's Novartis bought our Lek or our Lek took over Novartis. That's where the experts are. Is there a piece in there that develops in here? This worries me very much, because I think that Slovenians in Slovenia should make good use of this potential, make good use of this knowledge, and maybe get that position somewhere in one part of the market, the world, so that if you want a story to happen to us, one of Nokia who worked 30 years ago with rubber boots is making the best phones in the world today, and this is very good for the whole country. And that's why I would like to see first of all when you change that and when you do that, let's go in this direction, so that we too can have a shift so that young people can have good jobs, good skills, and, above all, let's look at education in real quality education of technology and technology. I think that's our advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I must say that one of the things that the law brings and this is a good thing, you set up quality assurance agencies, because of course it is very important for the implementation of the Bologna Declaration itself. I think that the Ministry of Higher Education has managed to harmonise one part of the text of this law in a very short time, including some important changes that will in particular be able to upgrade the quality of higher education in Slovenia. I agree with those who agree that the agency is a necessary asset for the start of the implementation of a quality system, but we must all be aware that this is not a sufficient condition, it is said that there is much to be done in other areas that we will really have quality higher education studies in Slovenia and, above all, accessible studies for all those who want to study. In doing so, we have a number of problems. One of these is probably the implementation of the Bologna Declaration itself. Many experts have estimated that this area today is a "fiasco" and chaos that is somehow taking place in Slovenia. In Europe and on the one hand, we see that the Bologna Declaration in some countries could have come to life as a success story, and unfortunately we were not able to make the most of it, or that this area could be managed as best as possible. Moreover, in fact, at some points we are still lagging behind in achieving most of the Bologna goals, more than countries, such as those that have joined the reforms among the latter. So we also had some time advantages. And all those who say today that the quality agency is not a gain; I think you're wrong. Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, already has a quality agency, we have only stayed with the Quality Council and we thought we had done everything we could. I think that the quality agency is a reliable step forward is an urgent step. But, of course, it is not a sufficient step, and there will be a lot of other areas that need to be done. We must also be aware that in the Higher Education Council itself, whether we want to admit it or not, some poor programmes have been confirmed that programmes have been written on the hands of professors as well, that these were adopted programmes that did not involve students and students, it is said that they would have expressed their views. In some cases it has also happened that students and students, or to a large extent, have not been able to influence the evaluation of the quality of the performers, that is, the professors in their tasks. For example, today we also have a problem of simplifying or unifying some titles, we have students who study four plus one year, we have students who study three plus two years, we have students who have reached the same level in four years, we are talking about the old university program and today's new bologna programme. There's a lot of dilemma in this area about what to do in the future. I hope that the ministry will gather enough courage and be able to be more ambitious, for example, and reformistly intervene in these matters so that at some point we can unify these programmes. Today, for example, the new Bologna Master Deegra, according to which he is a Master's degree, is written after the name, while the old Master's degree essentially allows the one who finished the Master's degree to write the title before the name, it is a scientific master's degree and one that is obtained after the Bologna reform. There is a lot of confusion, especially with employers who do not know what it brings. For this reason, it is necessary to unify this matter in some way in the future. I must say that I agree with Mr President, who said earlier that centralisation is not the solution. Absolutely not. In all local environments, we need to develop some programmes that will be coherent with the economy, which will allow young people to remain in the local environment, to acquire education in the local environment, and then to enter the labour market if they so wish. But when we talk about centralisation, we must also acknowledge that the previous mandate was not so inclined to decentralise the matter. A number of public institutions, or higher education centres, have been set up to acquire, say, high school status or something, waiting for several months, if not a year or more. Thus, not everything has been done to decentralize, say, the education system and access to this education, many public institutions in local environments have a problem with the possibility of conducting a regular study, we know that the public university at some point is carrying out good programmes, that it is mostly self-sustaining and that it somehow fills this manna in local environments, which allows all those staying at home to be further educated, while local higher education institutions do not have these opportunities. And we're all going to have to do something together for decentralisation and it's not fair to say at some point that this government is essentially doing everything to keep the matter centralized, to develop programs just in the center and so on; that's not fair, because it just doesn't. Many things are going on, but of course much more will have to be done. The next problem we face in the area of higher education is an extraordinary study. An extraordinary study is originally intended for young people to study at work, but not for extraordinary students to represent dairy cows for colleges or for college funding. Especially not at the expense of having fewer regular programs and then having more extraordinary programs, because this is simply not sustainable, but it simply - it does not work together. We need to give young people access to education, we have often opened up the issue of tuition in the past, but today there is some opinion that knowledge is a right and not a privilege. And extraordinary studies in some way also bring tuition, especially for those who could not, say, access to education through regular programs. Therefore, a great deal of effort must be made in this direction, how we will also arrange this extraordinary study, which, in my opinion, was born at least in its original direction. The link between the economy and education is especially necessary in these times. We have talked a lot about local areas where young people can be educated, we have talked a lot about lifelong learning, and this is happening much more today. In the Government's actions, if you have seen them, there are quite a few incentives for this; not only are institutions as educational as well as an economy with financial impact being essentially rescued, but development is also encouraged along with financial impact. And this is the safe participation of the economy and education. We need to know that without this integration we will not know what kind of personnel we need for an economic area that is developed in the local environment. That is why it is so important to make this triangle between the economy, education and the ministry, which can have some comprehensive review and will try to do its best to help do so. Informal education is very linked, for example, to higher education. We know that many young people who are studying in the work process are pretending to be a student's work, any other work, obtaining informal experience, education and so on. All these experiences are not recognized anywhere for young people today. And when they enter the labour market after completion of their education, the employer expects them in particular to have work experience in new areas. However, these experience gained during the study cannot be proved as relevant. That's the first thing. And it is possible, although I do not fully agree that students study too long, at some point some do, we have an average of seven years of study, but in doing so we need to know that we have small scholarships, that young people are forced, especially those who do not come from university centres, to work while studying, that there are huge obstacles to our time being devoted only to study. And before we put in place some rigorous measures before we go about regulating this area, I would like to look on the other hand how we will allow young people at the moment when we take something away from them or limit them to be able to devote their time to the study. And not the last recognition of education abroad. Many young people study at universities in other cities, says outside our country, but have a major problem with the recognition of these diplomas in our country. It would be much easier for them if they wanted to recognise this diploma, say in Austria or Germany, and to get a job there - there would be no such problem. With us, these nostration procedures are extremely long, and they require some additional examinations, especially for young people, given that they have already graduated and have fulfilled their obligations in equally recognised colleges, in colleges which have signed some agreements with our country. I must say that there are many things that still need to be settled, but I very much welcome this law, which is moving in the right direction, brings the quality control agency, and I think that we will eventually get to the regulated higher education space with such work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u228	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. First of all, let me point out that we are actually talking about the first reading of this law today, which means that we want to clarify whether this law is necessary at all, whether it is in the right direction, what is the environment in which this law arises, what are the circumstances in the area to which the law relates. I warn you this because in some parts I will go quite far, but believe me, I will come back very quickly and everything I intend to say will be very clear. At the very beginning, however, I would first point out what, in fact, about this story about education and, of course, about higher education, which is extremely important, because it is something that ultimately puts our young generations alongside other generations of other European countries in the European and, of course, also in the global knowledge and labour market. That is why this is extremely important in terms of further development and development speed, and in fact, without exaggeration, we can say that this is a crucial issue for Slovenia. Well, what constitutional law says about the school system and its meaning, yet again one quote from a book I have already quoted several times today: "With regard to the school system, freedom of education is of particular importance. This not only means that universal education schools are accessible to all, but also that education is not under the exclusive competence of the State, but also provided by private schools." It continues: "The free movement of information and communication within society is of particular importance to democracy. Only open information creates a state that allows citizens to participate actively in the political decision-making process." Further: "Democracy cannot exist if information and education is limited and if there is no opportunity to express public opinion, because in such a case there is only a facade for another political content." So much for education, so much for higher education, too, is constitutional law. Now, before I proceed with the text of this law, let me draw attention to a few essential circumstances. In Slovenia, as I had warned before, one and the other do not really share ideology. It often "churi" public passion, public opinion, tries to mobilize an elective body, but in fact it is a key separator of values, a relationship to one's own country. However, some of us are also pigs abroad, when they estimate that there will be a political profit from this home, we have witnessed this in the last term nonstop, while others are trying to preserve the values of autonomy and we note the importance that these values are also applied in practice. Well, that's not the only line. In fact, they are an essential part of our view of political action, even in practice. Sometimes, in fact, the biggest difference is the fact that we do not speak the exact same language in politics. Indeed, we are working in the SDS for intercultural dialogue, which means that we speak frankly and without misinterpretation, and of course we speak Slovenian. While, unfortunately, the government part of the policy often speaks Orwelling. And let me show you this with two cases, which will be very current also because of the text of the law itself. For example, orwelling in Slovenia uses the term "real" which is translated into Slovenian meaning "not true". On the other hand, the term "lying" in English is "mistake". By the way, when the Orwell term "error" is used, then immediately there are also very influential politicians who say that whoever made one mistake, who said one mistake, should be given another chance. This goes beyond the scope of this law, but it is very interesting for the context in which we live today. And if I speak for a moment in Orwelling alone, just to make it easier for us to understand each other, the one who proposed this law, namely to the Government and the competent minister, has made quite a few mistakes in this text. Let me take my turn. This law, as it says here, should extend the possibility of the influence of the professional public. How's that working out in practice? The current Higher Education Council consists of 25 members - and now I speak in Slovenian that there will be no misunderstanding - and 21 members of this is appointed by the Government, but according to precisely defined criteria, this is said by classification from each field of science one of the experts in higher education, for the students of higher education institutions three etc. According to a new one, only 13 members are said to be composed of about half of the members of the world to which all the key competences should be transferred. But the key is who would name them. In doing so, let me also draw attention to what is happening all the time today — ignorance and ignorance. The explanation says they will propose and the text says they will name. By assuming that someone has changed his mind at the last minute, because it is also a matter of responsibility, the one who appoints someone will then assume responsibility, and that he has tried to shoulder this responsibility from the government that he should take over on all occasions, and today, too, the arrangements are now in force, to the effect that in the future, when something goes wrong, it is the autonomy of the university, and we know nothing about it. So, let's say it's a mechanism that works when it wants to cut into the media, but it's a known trick. Well, the fact that there is a contradiction between the explanation and the text of the law should, in my view, be at all enough not to put this law on the agenda or to discuss it, but this is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly. Now, if I go back to the very essence; when I talk about these thick mistakes -- if I speak for a second in Orwelling -- which are written here, it is said that this will lead to greater transparency. I say - if I speak in Slovenian - that this will lead to power without responsibility, to what we see all the time as the goal of the current ruling coalition. The leverage for this will, however, be the ideology and monopolization of the education system that this system undoubtedly brings. See how to ensure independence: the current body is probably not ideal; no solution is ideal; but what is now proposed reflects only the fact that this government obviously follows Murphy's laws faithfully. Because Murphy's law of politics says that the natural development of things in politics is from bad to worse. Because now the proposed system assumes that now they will clearly appoint their own members, namely the rector conference of three, the independent higher education institutions of one, the three student organisations, the community of higher vocational schools of one, the association of employers of two, the union of one, and the government of only two. So those for whom the government will also take responsibility will be prominently in the minority. This is quite contrary to the current situation when the government appoints 21 out of 25 and thus assumes an obvious political responsibility for them. From how these people will work is actually made in this law, I don't know, I would say that when they have a little joke, they will sign a special statement that they will act neutrally and independently, and this will be a ritual where they will be completely neutral and independent, but they will be employed there, with those who will name them in there and answer them. Please, this is going to be a great independence, I have to say! You know that material interests are certainly the ones that eventually prevail in such cases. Personally, the question arises to me whether this is entirely compatible with the Constitution. What I am warning is that this question is not only asked by me, but also in legal practice is put to the two former Presidents of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Čebulju and Dr Jerovšk, who wrote a very long and very good-quality article on how unconstitutional and illegal certain proposed solutions are in the novel SWIZ. There's a lot of controversy. It's hard to read them now because of time constraints. But I would ask the Government to study this very seriously and to withdraw this law and replace it with a law that meets at least the basic constitutional criteria. It's all about the uncertainty he's putting in for the students, so it's about those he's supposed to do again, because there's another fat one in there -- what did we say? - a mistake that the law is supposed to protect. In fact, it introduces uncertainty. Then there is additional bureaucracy, the legal system's inadequate grounds, the obvious unconstitutionality, the proposal of the appeal procedure - for example, for a substantive complaint, there is no provision for a wrong decision, and so on and so forth. However, the Higher Education Council has been demolished to the level of one such debate ring. However, it is very clear from public information that the Higher Education Council has been largely excluded from the drafting of the new law, which is also very interesting and raises the question of where the borders of democracy are. In fact, as it was now very clear to us who listened carefully, democracy ends for you where the monopoly of the present established universities ends. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, democracy begins there. That's where democracy starts, democracy always protects the weaker one, the new one. And, of course, it is top-notch cynicism if, on behalf of one who has spent 50 or 60 years sorting out the rough budget, he limits and eliminates everyone else. And that this is not only from the vine twisted and that there are some more constitutional-legal issues here, I received a letter from one of the employees - be careful, he is employed at the University of Ljubljana, but I will not tell you who he is, but I am ready to submit it to the court if necessary. So that someone wouldn't launch a vehemently, just as you do, because you don't want the gentleman who turned to me to get in trouble. In fact, he points to Article 24, which states that only a person who is employed as a higher education teacher may be appointed as a dean of a university member or an independent higher education institution. It points out that, due to restrictions on employment, different solutions have been used and are still being used in the past, people are employed, for example, as experts, as professionals, as self-sufficient researchers, etc.; but a key condition, which is habilitation, they meet, but under this law they are eliminated because they are not employed exactly where this law stipulates. And it raises the question, personally too, because it is precisely in this situation, whether this law in this part complies with the principle of equality before the law - my personal opinion is the same to his, by the way, professor of law, of course it is not. In fact, what I think all of this confirms is that, unfortunately, the story that was unfortunately largely silent in the public is now being fulfilled, but it is a key area for the development of Slovenia, higher education, which is a petition against the restriction of academic freedom and the repression of academic space, which has also been addressed to the National Assembly. Let me read just a few points: "The petitioners strongly oppose the restriction of academic freedom and the suppression of Slovenian academic space. Freedom of scientific, research and pedagogical action is one of the fundamental pillars of a modern democratic society; it is a condition for individuals to develop creative potentials for their own and for the wider social benefit that local and regional communities can improve the quality of their inhabitants' stay is a condition for the economy to develop and maintain competitiveness; it is a condition for the creation of a vibrant civil society in its many forms and activities. Academic freedom and openness are not only expressed in the fact that it is an integral part of individual rights and freedoms, but also in the fact that without its existence a knowledge-based society cannot function. The fundamental institution of scientific cooperation, research and communication of its knowledge is an autonomous academic man who freely connects with others and thus contributes to the design and dissemination of ideas, depending largely on how society will successfully face the development challenges of the globalised world. Opening up the higher education space to which we have witnessed the last year, setting up new higher education institutions and expanding the higher education network in the Slovenian region is a necessary part of transforming Slovenia into a society of knowledge and development futures. The petitioners note with concern that the leadership of the four universities responded to these strategic urgent processes by attempting to limit academic freedom and to close the academic space. This is expressed in opposition to the expansion of the higher education network of Slovenian regional centres." That's the end of the quote. Let me also illustrate this with my own experience as Chairman of the Higher Education Committee. Recently, at one of the visits to one of the existing established established universities, we also had a debate on the different regional dispersion of individual higher education institutions, and in this context I only mentioned the old wish of Gorenjecs, which we have in Kranj, that we also have our own university to make Kranj a truly full university place. And I have in mind a public university that we have talked about many times among the congregations. I stress this because it often tries to hide from the public that there is a conflict between private and public. This is not at all a matter of monopoly or demonopolisation of the existing system. And it was like someone turned off the light in the room. Suddenly, it was a delayed, forced smile, something that was said in the answer: You know, if you do something like this, we may already conclude a contract for our lecturers so that they can teach there. And then, you can believe me, I didn't have the slightest will to go any further in this direction. That's the point of this story, ladies and gentlemen! Under the cover of strengthening freedom and strengthening academic independence, it is either to establish a total or: I will say, a totalitarian monopoly in the field of higher education, whose constitutional importance I have presented to you before. That's the problem we're facing! And let me just point out at the end of this petition, which is also very interesting, there will be an opportunity, sure to talk about it. The petitioners understand the above draft law, as well as the other conduct of certain political university circles, such as the ban on university lecturers to cooperate with newly established academic institutions, as an attempt to achieve a monopolistic position under the cover of quality, scientific research and teaching work and to eliminate all those academic institutions that have been created in recent years as the product of independent initiatives by groups of Slovenian scientists and university educators. Countering such initiatives, which are intended for the proposed law, will not contribute in any way to the quality of Slovenian higher education, but on the contrary. It will make it closed, tougher, more accessible and incompetent to modern challenges. We therefore consider such aspirations to be extremely harmful, not only for the development of Slovenian science, but also for societies as a whole and as contrary to the basic standards of a free and open society. Therefore, we expect the Slovenian public and politicians to face such backstabbing tendencies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to sign this myself. For the fact is, in any area of social life, such large and drumming words do not guarantee quality. On the long term, quality guarantees only and only competition. Competition also in higher education; and this is not just domestic competition. International competition must also be opened in all ways. This is the only way to maximize the quality of higher education, and this is the only way to achieve the goal that we all advocate in our words. This is the quality, good, internationally comparable university higher education of our young generation. But as we all advocate in our words, we must not forget what I purposely set the stage for: some speak Slovenian, and others, unfortunately, use eagles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Minister Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u231	A respected choir! I would just like to point out, in the spirit of the contribution to the truth that the predecessor took, that he referred to a text that was not transmitted by the Government to the National Assembly, but from individual references, that it was an earlier version that apparently served as a basis for the writers of the articles from which he drew inspiration. He discussed that the Board of the Agency has 13 members, in a proposal made by the National Assembly has 11 members, and the students do not propose three, but two representatives. This, however, will be discussed among Members of Parliament. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] There was a word running, but in the care of the truth, I wanted to warn you. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. President, the Minister and the team. We are considering a very important law that will clearly shape the future of a species of young generation, as the activities carried out by universities as the highest educational, scientific and cultural institutions through their members are complex and possibly complementaryly linked through their members. The provisions of the law, or better said, amendments and additions to the law have, for a long time, implemented almost fully and very well the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European Region, which was adopted and ratified, entered into force in 1999 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u234	Please, calm down! Quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u235	Even for the Government that has tried to implement a rather complex and difficult convention in some way into this law. [[...]] The provisions of the law provide a good basis for the systematic integration of educational and scientific research activities, which is a basic prerequisite for the development of individual scientific disciplines within the university framework and for the course of university studies in a well-organised system. Personally, however, I wonder whether the law with its conceptual solutions will only meet its objectives, which are set quite high and in accordance with the principles of this same Bologna Convention and process. Will the Agency replace the work of the Council, or will it be just one formal name replacement, despite the clear, qualitatively indicated distinction between the two? Will it follow the development of innovative teaching practices that promote the self-learning of students? How will the integration of development and research work take place and how will it affect the progress of this development and research work? Will monitoring and updating take place on the basis of the need to renovate programmes according to the responses and opportunities of students as well as independent assessors, employers and other bodies? How will this actually be done? Of course, everything will not be in your hands, but it is also good to try to implement all possible monitoring in one way. How will scholarships be encouraged to achieve better success? Will the programmes be updated according to the needs of real and actual work for students in the future or in the labour market or in the profession? Will practitioners from practice be more involved in the study process? What will be the access to study materials, and what will this be? What will be available to the virtual environment for studies in general and remote study? How will the informational reporting of students continue, and how much time will be devoted to this? Will it also allow employees to gain adequate qualifications? We know that so far the acquisition of these qualifications has been left to chance or how much higher education organisations have had the money to do so. Will the registration conditions also adapt and change for the better? Whether the basic spatial conditions for the quality of the study and the material conditions will also be provided - because we know that this is a prerequisite for quality education and studies. And how will investment policies continue in the area of new buildings? Here in Ljubljana we had just on our committee, I mean, a presentation of all the problems and problems of the type of higher education organisations, but especially in Ljubljana there is a problem of academics. I believe that quality and accessibility to education have priority over short-term market effects. The great dilemma remains in the field of programme inflow between universities in Slovenia and Europe in general. I am interested in how and in what way you think and what to mediate, including any submarital acts, when we will also have the opportunity to discuss them. Otherwise, for a little bit of salt at the end, it is possible, given that this is also related to information and not to measures to remove administrative obstacles, that we will once again get Members to the table an integral text of the law, so that we can see the integral text of the basic law, with all the articles placed in it, so that we do not have to search and swim in the sea of paper. I want a lot of success, because marriage is really complicated and quite demanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u237	Respected and respected! Slovenian students made for the first time, at the beginning of the Bologna Process, a request to the public for an independent quality accreditation agency a decade ago. So for a long time, a clear request from Slovenian students and perhaps if we could listen to them early enough, we wouldn't have had much of a dead run at least during the last four years. This requirement is made out of a clear awareness that without an adequate independent assessment of the quality of the study process, Bologna reform is actually disabled, as it is based on international comparability and mobility of knowledge. And if we do not have the appropriate mechanisms in place to accredit and identify this knowledge and quality of the study process - without this mobility and this international comparability of Slovenian higher education knowledge is not possible. It is also true that many have been extremely critical all this time until the Bologna Reform. I understand the Bologna Reform itself since the signing of the Bologna Declaration as actually an implementing document of another declaration, another strategy, namely the Lisbon Strategy, that Europe should become a knowledge-based and most competitive economy in the world. Unfortunately, today, after ten years of this process, it is not uncommon to estimate that in fact the Bologna reform has only generalised knowledge instead of their specialization, overburdened students without deepening their knowledge and management of complex problems. Therefore, from today's perspective, the modernisation of the study programmes was mostly only a formal adjustment, not a new study that would be more dynamic, more interactive, more analytical, applied and flexible. So far, we know that the external quality assurance system has proved inadequate and conservative, and I therefore welcome this law and I understand it as a fundamental approach to legislative changes with a view to raising the quality of higher education, since the current situation does not follow trends within the European higher education area, nor does it follow the needs of Slovenian higher education. And when we are so critical of this process, it makes sense that today we understand the need to listen to students. It has already been pointed out in a series of debates today that students are those targeted at this higher education process, who are users of this knowledge and who are the first to be interested in the quality of the study process in which they are involved, at an internationally extremely high level. This also provides them with the continuation of their life course, better opportunities for quality employment, a better career perspective and a better quality of life. In this respect, given that we are today in the middle of a general debate on the Higher Education Act, I would also like to advocate for better representation of students appointed by a representative student community in the agencies of the Agency, as well as in the new role of the Higher Education Council as a government advisory body on the strategic issue in the field of higher education. Today we have heard in some debates - clearly on which side of the hall - that the proposal for a law is totally unnecessary and harmful, that it is non-academic, non-free, non-European and that it represents the liquidation of the Higher Education Council. Given that some of the debaters before me have already pointed out one chronic conflict of interest that takes place in the final stage of the Higher Education Council, as we have been able to monitor it over the past four years, I think the liquidation of such a world for higher education is extremely useful and necessary. And if this liquidation brings this law, then I support this law. Unfortunately, it has all too often proved that because of this conflict of interest, an important part of this world has pushed for accreditation of its own study programmes, within its own private universities or colleges. I therefore agree with those who believe that the past period was mainly a sign of attempts to privatise higher education on the basis of quality and public higher education opportunities. So if we put this law on our fingertips to such ambitions, then we have done a lot. I therefore support the professionalisation of this extremely important function, i.e. quality accreditation. At the same time, I appreciate and support the important principle on which this system is built; i.e. the principle of public interest in higher education. This alone ensured that in the perspective we will not create a mass of private colleges, which are often, I do not argue that all cardboard boxes for the production of diplomas, which in the end are worth nothing more than the paper on which they are printed. The quality of higher education can therefore be enhanced only by refocusing on public university and public higher education and by a better independent system of quality accreditation, which also needs to be properly integrated into the student quality assessment system of the study process and lecturers. That's how I understand the intent of this marriage. At the last meeting of the Higher Education Committee, when we were hosted at the University of Maribor, Prof. Tičar from the Faculty of Maribor for Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Computer Science, from which our Secretary of State Prof. Györkös comes with the information that they receive 1,800 euros at the FERI. At the Technical University in Austria, they receive €13 000 per student. How, then, should the Slovenian University or the Slovenian Faculty remain and become competitive if we meet this kind of underfunding on the whole line of public higher education? And this is one of the challenges that we need to pay attention to and around which we need to be more careful if we are to remain ambitious, that we also want to provide a knowledge-based economy with a higher added value in Slovenia, and to build the necessary national consensus on this issue. Therefore, in today's amendments to the Higher Education Act, I also call for changes in the funding system, both higher education and science, which is in fact the key to moving Slovenian universities up the ladder of European universities and thus ensuring a better structure of knowledge and education for our people, a knowledge-based economy and community, and better and better paid jobs for our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. However, this law, I estimate, is unnecessary, is a step backwards and it is more than obvious that it is trying to subdue the higher education space of the current government and ministry, together with the minister. This is part of the electoral booty that you want to submit to yourself, just as this experiment was, or the amendment of the law, where the Ministry of Economy department, the Directorate of Electronic Communications, joined the Ministry. It is quite clear that the Council for Higher Education wants to be abolished here and is credited here with some false evidence that goes on his account, which is far from true. You can see his bias; in his previous term, he tried to privatize or move into private hands. In New Town, in the previous term, the first State Faculty of Public Sciences was established, the founder of which is the State. And the support for this establishment was not political. Support was given by the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and Bele Krajina, Chamber of Commerce, Society of Academic Initiatives, students or all, because such a university is needed there and this is the beginning of the future university we all want, and this is the public university. The fact that the Higher Education Council has delayed certain programmes that have been in the process of accreditation or that it has taken a biased or political decision is not true. There were also two study programmes, or three of which lasted more than a year, in the process of accreditation from Dolenjska or New Town. And not to play a political game here, but mainly because they've been suggesting all the time from the world what it takes to be careful that this program is prepared in a quality way. And now we have an accredited program for industrial engineering. This is a programme needed again by Dolenjska, White Krajina and from this university by graduates who will be employed in many companies in Dolenjska and, of course, also in White Krajina. And I wonder if the Ministry of Higher Education and the Government will be ready to set up another state college in that area. I am really curious whether this procedure will also take place in this respect. The Higher Education Council is made clear that many times there was a conflict of interest. And it was in this world that if a conflict of interest could arise, it could, of course, be dealt with in such a way and in such a way. While this public agency is certainly not going to do that. And this is where this conflict of interests will take place. Notwithstanding the fact that the Higher Education Council is still the most competent interlocutor in the field of higher education, it has already been shown at the outset that the Ministry of Higher Education of that body does not need or devote itself to that role and, of course, ignores it - proof is that, when this law was being discussed in the Higher Education Council, instead of attending that meeting, either the Minister or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State was sent to the Council of Higher Education. Director of the Directorate. I think this relationship here has been more than obvious what the Higher Education Council is for them. By listing the advantages or functions that this agency is supposed to have, the impression is that the Higher Education Council has not worked at this time. In all these functions, the world was very competent and responsible. And even in the European Agency for Quality in Higher Education, it could already have a status, because the condition for this was the course of action and, of course, this world would soon have it. It is claimed that the new agency's world should be professional. I wonder how much more professional it would be or how much more professional it would be than the Higher Education Council could be right now. Because of these 11 members, there will be only four who will represent or be proposed from higher education, and by proposing or naming them, that is the difference, the rectors. And this has already been said today, how will they then act differently than in the interests of the university or existing universities, which will close the higher education space and decentralisation of higher education in Slovenia. It is more than clear that this is also the closure of higher education. There is also a provision in this law that will now allow higher education institutions to carry out their own habilitation for their professors. This rightly raises the question of whether these procedures will be based on quality, quality or based on some other basis and who will supervise it. I am very afraid that the quality of these teachers or higher education teachers, who will thus be habilitated, will be very questionable. Today, too, it has already been said - and it is right to stress once again - that this law has a great deal of unconstitutionality. Certain matters may be resolved in further consideration. But I'm afraid the students will be drawn here again "for a short time". Because who guarantees security when a student is three years old or is just about to graduate, the agency will take a license or accreditation from a higher education institution. What legal protection has the applicant prepared or considered in this law - it is not. As I have already mentioned, our higher education professors, experts who should be represented in a large number in this world, have been neglected. Here, however, the proposed solutions will be implemented in a way where the Ministry will have full control over all the procedures within the competence of this Agency. At that time, there will be a risk that the current government outfit or ministry will be able to politically withdraw accreditation from a large number of higher education institutions. There are also solutions in this law that additionally bureaucraticize procedures, and I do not think they bring any added value to the proposal. So unfortunately this law, as I mentioned, is unnecessary, a step back and higher education space, instead of decentralising in Slovenia, because it is the right way to compete and improve the quality of our higher education study; but it will close and politicise it again. We can probably expect another new law again in the short term, including the Law on the University that is already circulating, will further contribute to this, to the closure of higher education, to the full monopoly on existing universities, and I think that is not what Slovenia needs and what our students deserve. That is why I will under no circumstances support this law, and I do not think it is suitable for further consideration. Only, the ruling coalition will vote this, as always, without any real arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u241	Thank you very much. In my previous mandate, I have been a member of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development for all four years and have experienced almost obsessive meetings of this committee with the participation of a number of students, who, unlike the members of the Committee, as well as both ministers, later on, have understood what it means to assess quality in higher education, what it means to assess quality in universities, and have thus consistently and endlessly repeated that they require a quality assessment agency in higher education, because they are well aware that only in this way will all higher education institutions, whether in universities or independent higher education institutions, be forced to continuously and try to improve their work, their methods, that they will also have to improve their level or raise their level of study, that teachers will have to be constantly tested and accompanied by their scientific publications and work, particularly in the work of students themselves. Unfortunately, in the previous term, of course, listening to the fact that Slovenian higher education could improve its quality level and, above all, to obtain some places at least in the quality scale of higher schools or universities in the world was not listening and the quality agency in higher education was not even established, despite the fact that the law adopted by the previous government in implementation provided for this quality agency in higher education. So when someone talks about whether this law on higher education is going to bring about the takeover of power, the state authority in higher education, is either a complete misunderstanding, or whoever claims it has not read the law, or does not understand how high education works and that universities are autonomous after the constitution. Especially when it comes to public universities. This is where I'd say something. When we talk about how the Government will take power in the Higher Education Council and how it will take power in a quality agency in higher education, all we need to do is read the composition of the Higher Education Council. So there are no government representatives, in fact, in the Higher Education Council at all. It is true that 15 members and presidents are appointed by the government, but when we look at where they are from and who will propose these people, it is clear that the Government will not gather them together, but that they will be proposed, such as, say, two higher education teachers or a scientific worker from the candidates proposed by higher education institutions. So here I see no sign of any political takeover of higher education. The fact is that there is much more diversity in this world for higher education, much more democraticism because of the fact that there is also the presence of high school students, that they are also representatives of the employers' association. It is said that those who have a great interest, that the quality of higher education is as high as possible and that the depth and breadth of the students who complete their studies are such that they are immediately useful in the work process in the economy. And when we talk about the world of the national quality agency in higher education, it is also very diverse and has eleven members called the rector conference, it is said that in this rector conference is also the rector of the private university in Slovenia, it is said that you cannot even claim that there is already a differentiation between private and public universities in any way, that the internal representatives of the representative associations of higher vocational and higher education institutions are also present, that employers are present and so on and so on. So where is this famous government now? What was earlier in the Higher Education Council and still today is due to the fact that it will not change for a long time, because it is a realisation, for example, the agencies only in March of the second year, and that is, of course, the facts. And if we turn just two, three years ago, if we look at what kind of new university and similar things have been created, we can say that whoever is used to taking power in every segment and in every layer of this society, so that a person can't even sneeze without getting permission from the highest authority and, above all, from the ruling party in the past mandate, then of course thinks that that's how they do, think and function, everyone else. I used to joke about what happens when a person judges other people in his own right. And please stop judging all of us who are here in the National Assembly and who think that, especially in higher education, there is a need to achieve political, independent, independent, independent, independent university higher education from any branch of government, which must be as good as possible, so that it will not happen, as it can happen now in the short term. In fact, it used to be heard if, say, some university or college doesn't get accreditation -- yeah, for God's sake, what kind of professors are they? How's the dean? What are the rectors at the university who wouldn't get certified accreditation after seven years? This with completely irresponsible people and because quality monitoring will take place across the street, but not just seven years of nothing and then the last year intensely, and then it will be said that you have not done, you have done badly and what I know what. No, the evaluation will take place across the street, inside and outside. And when the warnings and warnings in the interim are infertile, then it will be necessary to ask whether it is not time to replace individual professors, individual assistants, individual Deans, individual rectors because they do not guarantee sufficient quality, that it will not happen as it is now, that "as a calf in a new door we are looking at" because we do not know what we will do because one of the Slovenian universities came into the stage when thousands of graduates of this university came under question because the leadership of this university acted not to say unconsciously and perhaps even worse - but it will be checked by the right authorities. Just what's gonna happen to those thousands of college graduates? That's what I'm asking. If we had a quality agency and we came to look at this college, I'd probably warn you in time: "Gentlemen and ladies, you're not doing this right. That's why you change the method of work immediately, because you're awarding diplomas that are questionable values." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Andrey Richter has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u243	Thank you very much, President. I take this debate as a debate for real reflection on material or on law and good intentions. Of course I can listen, and I can also read and I learned Slovenian in elementary school, in high school, in college, and I have mastered until recently in Slovenian, and therefore I also know very well what Bologna studies are, because I intend to continue studying for my own resources, I will say, and I also know very well what is said at the beginning of a master's degree or at the end of a doctor's degree in science, or at the beginning of a doctor's degree in science. Therefore, contrary to nectar's other Members, it seems exactly the procedure for the adoption of the law itself in a broad public debate to be a good one. Of course, we could discuss it further or further, but it is likely that everything needs to be done once. What I would like, of course, is for the law-makers, with us now, is the Secretary of State, who has been doing his work for many years in the fields of knowledge, behaviour and higher education as well as to carry out this inquiry into the preparation of the law, not only with institutions or users of higher education, but perhaps already - here also today - the economy and to me particularly the loving area - of culture. We know that the field of education also takes place in cultural institutions, which, with their infrastructure, as well as their programmes, offer their knowledge and, last but not least, their behaviour. Above all, such integration is important, especially when we are talking about the preparation of joint projects to draw up European funds. Just before me, my colleague Breda found out how important it is, at times, to cooperate between the departments, when one of the universities or colleges houses in a monument of State importance, in the state owned by another department, and it happened, not until the end of the day, that not only was the financial university almost shut down or stashed. For this reason, I welcome the adoption, the procedure and I am sure that you will continue to have another conversation with the other resources. This, of course, will not last but a larger circle of your supporters, not least those who can be included in the evaluation or in the trial for what is the best quality of work. In particular, when I talk about the knowledge of new technologies, new sciences, the communication that sometimes arises, especially in the field of creativity and art, we know that this is a particular area of educational, scientific and research processes. When we talk about quality and autonomy, it has also been pointed out that quality must have established criteria, as well as quality in individual institutions is taken care of by the management, which, last but not least, meets certain objectives on the basis of the strategy. It is therefore also for the Ministry as well as for all other ministries, that this is linked to the continuation of the Government's reflection on the modernisation of the public sector. For if we do not speak at the same time with your initiative with this law on how to establish universities or colleges in the future with some leaders and responsibilities, we will probably do just as little, and especially the agency that is established is very good in my opinion, much work in checking or quality care. Let me also mention in this context that these public institutions, universities, universities, care or have infrastructure, as well as their knowledge and activities for profit, or I will also say public services are acquiring market activities. We know how legislation is established in this area and, of course, in thinking again about quality and building quality, because being autonomous as a professor, as well as a student, means being autonomous at the high quality of living and doing all the needs that the student needs, and also those that he creates. In doing so, I can be given purely in the area of health and healthy nutrition, but also for me one of the quality of good management of the work of the university, of course also of good nutrition, that is to say, well-being in the workplace, and especially in the work process that students have. Some Members may laugh, but it is essential to me, especially for young people, when we talk so much about it in another department, we do not know how to connect it, not least in the curriculum of school or higher education. Of course, the establishment of a single information system is one of the content that is likely to be regularly in checking the quality of work as well. This is also related to the long-term strategic planning for finance, but I do not think that without this agency and also all the other moments involved will be able to cooperate. Let me also mention that I am counting because I am coming - my colleague Grims also said in Kranj - they once dream of having their university; we also dream about it in Celje, but I am confident that the agency will, with its professional work, approach, and also with the way of choosing how it will be filled, see that these criteria will indeed make decisions about the creation of new higher education institutions and thus also meet the conditions for the creation of new universities. One of the local areas from which I come from, this is Celje, which is now filling 6,000 students, who, due to the specificity of the conditions of the study, not least by offering specific programmes, but especially due to listening and good cooperation with the economy and also by employment, are expanding in this area. Finally, perhaps it is just that, as my predecessor has said, it is also related to the economy, which today "Bologna" commands not least when part of the study is to be organised in cooperation with the economy, but today the Ministry of Higher Education somehow does not recognise it, especially when we are talking about financing programmes that are carried out outside the university or outside college or higher education. Let me tell you, I think marriage is very good. It's a step forward. I understood him very well. However, I am sure that the ministry will not just discuss what has happened in the past, but, above all, that it will complete and implement our initiatives, taking into account what is necessary for the quality future of our young people. This may be a question for a second discussion of how, at a time when the agency or the world will not yet be established, as well as the world, how the process or accreditation of old and new programmes will proceed during this period; here it is necessary to think about not anything unpredictable. But I'm counting that you've already made a good strategy and you have everything in your pocket, Madam Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! It is right that we have our opinions and views, perhaps all well - meaning, so as to draw up the best laws. My contribution is as follows. The proposed amendment to the law on higher education essentially constitutes an attack on the Slovenian regions. Apparently, it came from under the authority of representatives of power centres in the country who oppose the expansion of the higher education network into the regions. We hear in the media that some university rectors forbid professors from teaching outside their home institutions and even intimidate them. I think it is wrong that Slovenian academic space should become a place of bureaucratic restraint and intimidation. Knowledge and education are positive and should not be limited. We also cannot restrict professors who have the skills and desire to teach, for example in two universities. I come from Styria myself, and I can say that the University of Maribor has given a special status. Young people, students, bring some liveliness to the city, some new bright spots, and of course I also afford it to other cities in the country. I also allow students to study as close as possible to their home as possible, not to move, for example to Ljubljana and to pay dearly for renting apartments, transportation and the like. So, I do not agree to restrict academic freedom, but I suggest to the Ministry of Higher Education that instead of political interventions, it prepares good conditions and criteria for establishing new higher education institutions with clear rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you very much. My word is Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u247	Nicely greeted. Yes, there have also been a lot of self-uttering and unacceptable assessments about what we want with higher education in Slovenia in this debate. To hear that this matter is unconstitutional - perhaps someone else lives three hours ago, four hours ago when we discussed the deleted and from there such an assessment. I'd say so. We want quality higher education, so we need appropriate standards and criteria. We want the movement of higher education teachers, researchers, students. The space must be open and universities should compete and fight to have as many students as possible. But they can only fight quality programs. Maybe Nova Gorica is a specificity, because we have the University of Nova Gorica, the municipality is the co-founder of this university, we have so-called VIRS, we have private colleges, the local population supports all these educational institutions in our area, especially Hit and the city municipality. In the town hall we allocate a million six thousand euros for higher education, we co-found the University of New York, so we pay special attention and we are proud to have a university with us. Perhaps private colleges often receive debates: "yes", "no", even in our environment - why do we encourage them, why do we finance them? We finance in this sense that we help with infrastructure to enable these faculties to work, but it is not in policy to assess quality, so I strongly support this national quality agency in higher education, because this agency can assess, is a university, is a university, is a program of quality, have graduates of quality diplomas or we will close a matter because it does not meet these requirements. I am also pleased with the public at the work of this agency, which is also announced in this document, the public in the sense that they can follow the assessment of these quality students, is said by the users, but also by those "controllers", is said to be the public. It is likely that the more professional public will be interested in what the results are and so is the case. Right now in the city municipality we have a meeting of the city council, where we also deal with the location for the university campus. But I am aware that we cannot go to the games 'in every university', that this polycentricity - and at the border we feel this is particularly important, because the New York University has its own spaces in the neighbouring Gorica, which is extremely important for our foreigners, for the Slovenes who live on those sides, and there is something remarkable in this space. We are helping with funds, obtaining European funds, for example, instead of any sidewalks or public lighting, we have spent resources on laboratories, on the University of New York and so on. It saddens me that in this debate, instead of the professional and other content, we are talking again as: we - you; our - yours. I could logically expect the SDS to be against and then, of course, the SLS satellite, which says that this material is flawed and useless. This is not, this document is not part of the electoral booty, as was said. It's not about any electoral looting, but it's about finally getting an organ in this country, a group of experts to determine our quality. That's what politics does today, and that's a big mistake. I am confident that this document or this national agency will, of course, come to life, that this bill will be adopted and that we will open a new leaf in the work of our higher education institutions. We're small, so every program, every professor, every student is extremely valuable. If we can't steal them all over the world and get them, we just have to raise them ourselves. That is why I expect and want all higher education institutions to be very quality, and the difficult ones are competing with the world, as colleague Breda Pecan has already said, that in this list of quality we would grow to the middle at least, and I think this is the first step. Therefore, when it is time to vote, I will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. If I start with the fact that, say, in peripheral areas like Koroška, the population is very old. It's old because the road to the centers where our students are educated is one-way. On this road they mainly walk to Ljubljana and Maribor, from there they usually do not return, they are sucked into by these great centres. With them knowledge remains, capital remains with them, Koroška remains alone with the elderly. The economy has no experts to develop high-tech programs, and this was also the intention and direction for us who live not only in Koroška, I also believe in what other peripheral region to start thinking about the establishment of schools, higher schools, those who will absorb students who will also have the opportunity to work in an economy that is real for an area. In the past period, we have been fortunate enough to have this idea and our wish implemented in terms of the consent of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, we have received accredited programmes for higher education, we have received a habitation for professors, and so we have started with our own private higher schools, for which I hear some comments and some concerns in this Chamber today, and in addition to these concerns, there are many other insidious debates, especially discussions near state universities, which are somehow afraid to turn to these higher schools, which are established throughout Slovenia, in the entire Slovenian space, that these higher schools will not be able to give good students or good experts that these higher schools are not those who would provide continuity and these higher schools are not also to associate themselves with some institutions outside Slovenia, with universities outside Slovenia, etc. This is a fear of some fear of those who currently have some monopoly, but I am sure that doing so, to establish private higher schools and introduce new higher education programmes, is of great importance to us who live in these peripheral provinces. And I could only say: I hope that such a policy will go on, that we will have the opportunity, and that what my predecessor from Nova Gorica, Mr Brulc, has been talking about is that if the economy shows interest in a profile that is currently not carried out at any official or state university, if there is also local self-government, the local community that helps to material conditions for one such school, and not least if it is also the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education - then why not establish such higher schools. We have good experience with this. We have opened, accredited and, last but not least, a concession has been granted for the high school polymer technology programme, which is possible for something unique or very rare. And this is what our economy, not only in Koroška but also in Slovenia, is actually going to absorb at the moment. These students will have a job, as they are also now, all students who have scholarships, that is, some financial support for all these companies awaiting their diplomas. Of course, there are many questions here, and somehow with some sadness we see that you are, such high schools cannot always help themselves. We have many problems with professors. But when we knock on the doors of state universities, these doors are closed several times. And I don't know why this competitiveness would be so close to some circles and not even help high schools on the periphery. In doing so, I must commend the University of Maribor, which stood by our side and helped us to arrange all these things. When we knock on some research institutions that have free capacities, where our students could - without us financing laboratories and funding other research infrastructure - even in these research institutions, which are not last funded from the state budget and could also use these capacities and train our students there. There are quite a few problems that we face in the field that we face in such high schools that we have established, and we see that practice is good. I hope and expect that the policy will continue to be so that it will not be confined exclusively to some state universities and will not allow the possibility of developing any more programmes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on these peripherals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In today's debate, at one confessional level, we all clearly advocate quality higher education, European comparable, and there is no big deal between us about what kind of society we want in the future - a knowledge society. In this proposal for amendments, it would be good to look at the situation and we are not all assessing it the same. I have to say that a lot of speakers have touched things before me, I'm not going to touch them all myself, maybe I'd point out one that I think has been under-lit by now. I understand that no amendments will ever be adopted unanimously with ovation and approval. However, I must say that the Ministry has prepared this amendment of law thoroughly, consulted all the actors involved and there is great agreement in the research and academic sphere on the necessity and usefulness of this law. Indeed, there are also objections already mentioned here. It is, I think, very significant how, in the case of one opposition, it is always silent, forget to say, if I speak of Orwelling or if I speak of Slovenian, it is true that there have been ever any major concerns about the situation that has existed in this academic space. Even in the previous Higher Education Council, various professors, doctors, academics, Mencinger, Prunk, Križman, Leban, Gustin, Golob, Glavic, Bulgarians and so on had great concerns about the state and manner of work. Of course, many times or always according to the rule, these concerns were rejected. I am also not sure, like a colleague who before me has debated that the current agency or its council will operate less professionally and more politically than the previous world. It is difficult for me to imagine that any world or any educational institution would have acted more politically than that former Higher Education Council did when the candidate for the Slovenian Ambassador to Argentina was granted higher education, although it was clearly answered after an inquiry in Argentina that the education which the gentleman holds is not university, but that he could go to school for another two years, and that he would have achieved that level. In short, translated, it was higher education. And I'm sure you're also such an educational institution called the Human University of Augustine Vívoda and is at home in a cross-border Buzet, you wouldn't be able to afford a serious higher education institution. I think that is why it is important to be very careful about who all can be a higher education institution. I understand all the concerns and desires from all regions that it would be good to have as many higher education institutions as possible located outside the larger urban centres that already have universities, because of course it is true that such institutions are returning life to the Slovenian provinces, although of course it is necessary to know that many young people do not necessarily want to stay only in their home place, to study exactly what the local industry needs, and in some way to re-establish how and what they will survive the rest of their lives. I am sure that it is always good to change the place of your stay, to get some new experience, if possible to study abroad, but of course to return home, because in this way a person can be more useful to his home place. It is true, however, that this condition of return is necessary, and it is likely that the higher education institutions themselves are not what will preserve a young life in the places of old age. Other changes are necessary. But it's one of them to disperse knowledge. I am not sure, as the criticisms of the proposal have said, that this amendment to the law is the one that would restrict it in any way. It must, of course, be if we want our higher education institutions not to remain, but to become European and globally comparable, in this area it is the order and the standards must be met. In the previous law we discussed on primary school, we had a similar dilemma: whether we will have some standards of knowledge or have some expected results. In short, I don't think you can say in this area: "I make one compromise. The local economy needs something to let the university down a little bit, and let's do something together." The standards must be high, as this will not benefit these local economies in the long run if the under-educated personnel come from such institutions. That's why I think this agency that's being set up is still necessary and appropriate. It was pointed out by European institutions, warned by Slovenian students, and it is high time to get it. The academic sphere is also actually pleased, although it has to be said that it will, of course, be subject to more control than it has ever been. Not much has been said about the extension of accreditation to higher education institutions and higher education programmes, which are now to be implemented for seven years. We should have done it before, but they didn't, because the Higher Education Council should be doing it on its own initiative, and now they will have to do it by themselves. In short, if I understand it correctly, there will be no more cemented things, there will be no more experience professors and so on or so they can, but they will have to prove themselves for seven years, and this will apply to state institutions, to private institutions, to those whose establishment is the local community; all that are already and will be. I think it's good that it's some kind of overwind and it's some kind of competition, not a restriction. That everyone must continue to prove that it is not enough to once achieve a habilitation title, from there the assistants will write what will then be crossed out by edex to their signature, and add theirs below, or any other practice will be used to insist on certain positions in higher education institutions, but that it will be necessary to prove what I think is very good. As has already been said, this is one change that certainly works for the competitiveness of this knowledge. Any other people would have met just as well. You have said a lot about it to the predecessors, and I would agree with it and conclude at this point and, of course, say that the law still seems appropriate for the first reading and, of course, also for acceptance when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. Well, the time we live in, I think it really takes us all to think more and more about quality education, especially higher education. This is not the end of the day-to-day knowledge of climate conditions, not only in Slovenia, but in the whole world, but, finally, if we also touch on the economic and financial sectors, we can see that even during this period, those who may not be sufficiently knowledgeable can have a greater impact, but, of course, their actions can have very great consequences for the development of technologies and for, not least, the existence of life on our surface. So everything we can do in this direction to make education better, better quality, is certainly to be welcomed. I believe that this law also contributes greatly to this, but it is also necessary to have both state universities and private educational institutions, and that it actually means progress, but it is one period behind us, when we have actually found that the development of private institutions has somehow also been financed to a large extent on the basis of funds previously received, say, by state education institutions and that it has actually started to walk in the quality of state education institutions. And here it certainly takes a very serious thought where that limit is, when we can do it, and where we can do it. Even the fact that more higher education organisations are welcome does not necessarily mean that this is also a contribution to better quality. In fact, it can often happen that some institutions, in order to obtain as many students as possible, can also be somewhat more generous in implementing their educational programme and also access to diplomas can be slightly nicer in private colleges than, say, in state schools. This is what certainly dictates that we need an institution that controls this process and also prevents the acquisition of as many students as possible in our circle. What I would like to draw particular attention to in these current economic circumstances is the fact that we must also take into account the fact that we must not allow knowledge to be generated within educational institutions and that this knowledge does not actually have access to the economy, to the development of new technologies. Otherwise, if we look at the composition of the Higher Education Council, we find that there are also four representatives in the world of the economy proposed by representative associations. Of course, some of the 22 members they make up may be a suitable number, but I would like to reflect further on the adoption of this law, whether they could give greater weight to the participation of the economy, both in cooperation with the Higher Education Council and in the quality control agency in higher education, since the composition of the Board of the Agency is such that we follow, in fact, from 11 members of one representative employers' association. Here I have a real - either an opportunity or a dilemma that I think should be opened in this consideration of the law and see where it is possible to get the best contact with the economy and also with universities, so that a student who chooses to study may feel that even at the time of study he may be able to learn the matter that he has decided not only through theory but also through work through practice. I think that it is one of the good directions that can combine this interest of the economy and research institutions and universities and the creation of centres of excellence that are already in Slovenia, and I think that they will also be created in the future, and that this regional aspect is also extremely important here, where it is possible to provide a programme in regions outside the university headquarters, which is also supported by the economy and together with both research institutions and the university and the economy in the centre of excellence, so as to develop a new technological product as well as, of course, giving students the opportunity to survive part of their studies in the home region, and are directed as a team to enable them to be included in their production process as soon as possible in that region. It is of no importance that even when an educated person enters an economic society or, of course, an economic society is able to acquire new knowledge as soon as possible and thus a new opportunity on the market. So it seems to me that we have this moment of exceptional opportunity to take into account this regional aspect, which is extremely important in Slovenia, because compared to other European countries, rural settlement in Slovenia is significantly greater than in other countries, and I think that the opportunity to combine the interests of regional development, university participation, economic participation, research institutions can also be realized through centres of excellence. I believe that this law is the basis that will be able to raise the quality of the education programme in Slovenia, and this is what we need for sure right now and in the future. I will therefore also vote that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. However, if we are able to integrate an even greater economic dimension into this, I think that this law can be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Tom Mencinger has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u255	Thank you very much, respectable, respectable! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, as a proposal by the Government, I think it is good and also progress in this area. However, I am convinced that more attention will need to be paid, as some colleagues have already said, to the integration of studies and the economy, as well as to this cooperation with foreign countries in these areas. Here I see Slovenia one of the countries of the European Union that has these opportunities, the possibility that it can really take over Europe as one of the leading places in this area in the future. The next thing is: you will really have to make sure that this accessibility is practically truly accessible to those who are willing to study and take care of the quality of this education. The next thing, I am sure, is that new knowledge, new technology, that this must become a national project, because here is a great opportunity for the country as such to really succeed. Perhaps in the past, great damage and error have been done mainly in the area of the closure of research departments by economic institutions. I am convinced that these research departments, which were also linked to education, were in fact a very large potential, which unfortunately we lost for such and other reasons. The local environment or the local environment is one of the most important environments in this area. Let me only expose the municipality of Jesenice. In almost two years, we have managed to establish a higher school of health care, which receives postgraduate studies and is also associated with a hospital in Jesenica and high school. I think that this is one form of the local environment that works in this area or similar areas. I see a great deal of opportunity in possible research centres, which would mainly link this postgraduate study and the economy and this new knowledge and new technologies, which are then also in the final stage of the product and also new products in the economic process itself. Let me finish. I think that it will also have to be considered in this direction that students will actually have to be allowed to study, but not to think about how they will survive this student stay mainly in terms of finance and other things, so that they should also somehow involve the economy and, at the final stage, the country in order to actually take care of these minimum standards of living, which means student homes, nutrition and other things. So I think this thing is a good thing, and as such I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u256	Thank you very much. So, I see we've exhausted the list of applicants. Mr. Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, would like to speak? Secretary of State, Dr Jozsef Györkös. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u257	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the three points that have been raised in your debates, and I would like to start by thanking you for all your thoughts, even if they went beyond the scope of this bill's proposal, but given that we will soon reopen the law and make some more systemic changes to the public debate again, we are also grateful for them. The first thing I would like to talk about is the answer to the concerns that the broad public debate was not that it was happening quickly and similarly. I'll introduce you to chronology. On 15 January 2009, the Minister called on the higher education partners to participate in the working group to amend legislation and to set up a Quality Agency in higher education. The response was incredibly fast, within weeks we received a response from all the partners who were invited. A smaller delay took place in the Community of higher vocational schools and later in the independent institutions of 26 February, the Minister adopted a decision appointing a professional council and I had the opportunity and honour to lead this working group. A total of three members of the Higher Education Council and the Director himself participated. On 23 March, we completed the decision on the appointment of a professional council, including a representative of the Conference of Independent Higher Education Institutions. Then there were four meetings, attended by 90, 85 and 90%, all the rectors, representatives of the Higher Education Council and the debate were extremely fruitful. Let me stress that we have not begun to represent the members of the higher education partners of this law, but we have presented it on the basis of a concept. And we discussed the concept at the beginning. On 23 April, we then forwarded the draft text of the articles to the members of the Expert Council, which is a consolidated text, on 8 May we sent the text to inter-resort coordination and, after all the procedures that have been carried out, on 28 May, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at its meeting, set out the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and sent it to the National Assembly. All the time, therefore, when these discussions took place, there was also communication through letters and online. All documents received by the working group were made public. There have been quite a lot of press releases, and this is how we estimate that the debate was really public. The second point I spoke about was raised by Mr Grill. It is the implementation of the habilitation procedures. So, as some kind of thought or observation that habilitation procedures are carried out by higher education institutions alone. Yes, they exercise them independently, as this also gives them credibility. So if these options do not have self-implementation, they also have some difficulty in teaching. And that is why we have written into the law that we set minimum standards, of course the agency, which is the minimum standards for election in the names of higher education teachers, academic workers and higher education staff in higher education institutions. It is already the case that universities set general conditions, and colleges tend to have the opportunity to raise those standards as high as possible and this is not prohibited even now. So the Quality Agency will lay the foundations for these criteria, the basic criteria which will then, later on, so up, of course, be able to raise higher education institutions themselves. I would like to briefly touch Mr Ribič's words. I think that the categories, allow me this judgment, the attack on Slovenian regions and the limitation of academic freedom are only too difficult within the meaning of this law's proposal at all. Because, as such, the law speaks of the quality of higher education, it speaks of the establishment of an institution, it speaks of the form of this institution, its organisation and how it will be integrated into the European space. Thus, these categories, which I know from the petition, do not find their place in this debate. I also met with the signatories to this petition publicly in Studio at the age of seventeen, and we also held a public debate in this way, and I think that the text that was written there did not refer so much to the proposal for a law that we are discussing today or to the proposal for a new law. And another answer, Mr. Grill, who unfortunately isn't here. He has politicized the conclusion or the possibility of completion of studies when he terminates his activities of one of the higher education institutions. Even now, the law in Article 66 fully lays down the rights and duties of students, so that we do not begin in this law and assess that it is well resolved. We have already had several cases where this had to be done, and, of course, in this case, the State must ensure the transfer of the implementation of these obligations to another institution for these students. I would also like to conclude this brief discussion on your valuable comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u258	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I note that some of you still want to discuss it, so please apply. I understand you've signed up for two debaters. I warn fellow Members and Members that never, ever, ever, press the button of your colleagues, even if they order you to do so. We need to tell you this if you have not been told earlier at the beginning of this term. Please, this can't be happening. I believe it was out of ignorance, ignorance, but I must warn you now. There's two of them reported. Each person gets five minutes to discuss, while the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can also report to the five-minute debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u259	Thank you. If everyone really believed everything that was explicit and what was written, then things would be just fine. Unfortunately, I had previously warned at the starting point that some here speak Slovenian and others use something else. It's a trick. By sincerely congratulating that SD Member, it was specifically Mr Frangež who was able to speak Slovenian with so much courage. Because unlike this material, which speaks of the importance of the Higher Education Council, which sets out among the objectives that the Higher Education Council will be formed as a advisory body to the Government for all strategic issues in the field of higher education and that all partners will be able to discuss it, Mr Frangež has made it very clear what the objective is, and I quote: "The liquidation of the Higher Education Council, which is welcome and necessary." And he also made it very clear why. Since a body has been formed that is not entirely ideological and actually cares about the development of science as an autonomous group that actually cares about the development of universities as autonomous communities, it must, of course, be eliminated. This is the logic of the present authority and the logic of this authority is best covered in this sentence: "The liquidation of the Higher Education Council is welcome and necessary." The end of the quote from the SD Member, who for his courage to make it very clear what this is all about, truly congratulated. It is, of course, a matter of establishing an extremely unhealthy state in the field of the entire academic scientific sphere, particularly the university sphere. And this extreme sadness of the atmosphere, which has led across the entire scientific and university sphere, reflects the best, symbolizes the signing of a petition in favour of the minister caught on the lie, and the attempt to sell it, I quote: As an act of independence and autonomy of critical intellectuals." Ah, please, let's get real! Certainly, once such lesion occurs, because it is a matter translated into Slovenian, it is a reflection of everything but some intellectualism. I wonder where this Slovenia is actually going. This is certainly not the goal that we all want - to create opportunities for further development, for quality university education and, unfortunately, this debate that we have witnessed proves that this is indeed the case, I quote another SD member, who is what I read earlier, this is a comment or even a concrete contribution in Legal practice published on 28 May 2009, by Prof. Janez Čebulj, former President of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, and Prof. Jerovška, also former President of the Constitutional Court, simply with a laugh. If this is the way in which this law is formed and everyone's participation is interested in its design, then I must be honest to say that I am afraid that the 8.5% decline in the economic development of Slovenia, which we have witnessed in the last quarter, is not only a short-term story, but it can happen at a very long time. This, ladies and gentlemen, is something that we should all be concerned about, and this is also why I would like to urge the Minister publicly that this law, which is obviously inappropriate, is clearly unconstitutional, as the two former Presidents of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia have warned, and which is also half of the legal errors and illogicality, withdraw. And then there's the explanation. Earlier it was rightly pointed out that those petitions and related materials which I cited actually refer to the entire university law, which they had actually prepared on a very narrow circle of interested, etched universities, and of course that this part is now exempt and somewhat damaged - not only did the students get angry because they were taken away from them by another representative - these essential emphasiss and objectives that the law had had, this is the exposure of the monopoly of existing established established universities, in no way changes. Otherwise, the Secretary of State has now announced that they are preparing the following systemic steps. In their own words - they decided on the tactic: if you cut your tail in pieces, then it's supposed to hurt less. And first it is obvious that, as Mr. Frangež made clear, they are liquidating the Higher Education Council and then following everything else to monolith of this monopoly. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Alexander Zorn has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u261	Thank you very much. In view of the introductory words I have already said, I would add some things that I think are an extension or are specific, and I might expect an answer, but some will also be judgments. The first is this: by listing the things the new agency is supposed to do, it gives the impression that these things are not being implemented now. In fact, accreditation, which means affirming the public validity of higher education institutions and their study bodies and evaluation, is an assessment of the quality of the implementation of the programme and the functioning of higher education institutions, which is already being carried out by the Higher Education Council, in accordance with European standards. I think there's some inconsistencies in your text, too. I hope to remind you of it for the first time, or you have heard it today: there are obvious inconsistencies in the basis of the law, there are errors in Article 5, for example, that the members of the board of the new agencies will be proposed by the higher education partners, and then the proposed law states that they will be named. The difference is obviously substantive and will need to be reconsidered a little bit. Then there is the answer to the claim: the current Higher Education Council is hampering the conflict of interest and the Agency is not supposed to do so, which I think Mrs Breda Pecan has also talked about since she touched on it. This is inaccuracies. Actually, it's the other way around. The Higher Education Council shall have and use a mechanism to rule out decisions whenever there is a potential conflict of interest. The fact that most of the members of the Higher Education Council, following the current regime, are appointed by the Government on a proposal from higher education institutions, to a greater extent ensures respect for the public interest than will be the case when some higher education partners appoint these representatives directly, since then these representatives will depend directly on the interests of what they will appoint. A representative of a rector who will be appointed and called off by this Rector when he is most likely to take care of his interests, good or bad, in all matters, he will only substantiate his Rector. In this regard, it is clear who will decide in the agency, as the Government intended. Higher education teachers and researchers will have little to say. In their name, almost four rectors will speak, who in the world of agencies will not sit, but they will be able to call themselves the most loyal ones there as a rector conference. The academic sphere will be so practically narrowed down to three to four people. The remaining cities will belong to the Government, trade unions, employers and student organisations. There is no guarantee that these people will not, instead of public interest, represent only the interest of those whom he directly appointed there, namely, the Government and some high officials, but not of public interest. Instead of an independent council for higher education, the minister is preparing for us a politicized corporateism. In the proposed law, there is also a provision under which independent higher education institutions would award their own habilitation titles on their own. What does that mean in practice? Most titles last five years. Regular evaluations shall normally take place every seven years. This will allow someone at the higher education institution to teach for several years or even an entire mandate, and only then will the agency be able to discover that they have been named contrary to the criteria. Then will his name be rescinded? What this will mean for the students he has taught in these years when it turns out that they have been taught in return by someone who is not supposed to by law and criteria, and that subject will be abolished or taken into account, even though a specific person should not carry it out at all. Any solution in this regard will be poor and we do not really have adequate protection for students here. Notwithstanding the fact that the coalition cylindrical is likely to accept this, I ask you, Mr Minister, to take the suggestions that you think are smart into account in further processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u262	Thank you very much. He wants the word "minister"? Please, Minister Gregor Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We will be happy to consider all the proposals that have been made today, of course not alone. I am not the author of this text, despite the suggestions that have been given occasionally. God save. The above-mentioned expert group has been very broad and has worked thoroughly on the concept and basic solutions, as there have also been extensive public debates and hearings and so will be later. From now on, so much better, because this has been discussed actively and, which I think is very important to stress, with the awareness of the importance of higher education and its quality, has been included today. With regard to the Higher Education Council, I would like to say that my communication with the world or, above all, with the President of the Council, Professor Writing during this period was very correct. It will be difficult for you to hear both from him and from the secretariat of this world that we did not, where only we could and when the problems they encountered came to our aid. I think that cooperation in this regard has been quite exemplary. I myself have warned in this recital that there is no way to challenge the efforts the world has been making in its work and that the problems it has encountered are to a large extent the problems arising from its placement in the law and also the new tax which the world itself has been trying to bring into this place. The fact is that the Higher Education Council was the first body to have in reality experienced a test of how to ensure external quality checks, and I will say, logically followed also, you could say, a stage of childhood diseases, searches, trials, also modifications - including through the Constitutional Court, as mentioned. And here I would like to draw your attention to a fact. If we take into account the 2004 law, which was first mentioned on the basis of a student's request years ago, he mentioned the establishment of an agency, a quality agency, and it was defined in the law quite modestly. This was followed in 2006 by the amendment of the law, which was deleted or replaced by the Higher Education Council or the Secretariat. To be honest, it seems right to say here that then Minister Zupan objected to the agency being abolished, but despite the opposing opinions of the Government's legislative service as a parliament, the parliamentary majority of the time adopted a different solution, which Professor Jambrek specifically directed. However, on the basis of this novel, the Council has started to work, and today, when we consider the amendment of the law that the Quality Assurance Agency introduces into a new one, and we compare it with the agency defined in the 2004 Act, these are two councils. And I think it is necessary to say honestly and to acknowledge that this progress is in understanding the problems and challenges and challenges of such an institution, as a result of this time maturation, and that it is due to its experience, efforts and efforts, including the path that is always inevitable in the creation of a new institution without past experience, without any routine, to be attributed to the Higher Education Council. And I will say that I do not wish to deny this; on the contrary, this seems important to me. However, the fact is that the Higher Education Council, as it said at its December visit, Vice-President Hombach, would not be able to become a member of these key European associations due to the nature of its placement in the legal order. Partly because the Government is, I will say, such strong proposing power on the composition of the Council because there were people sitting inside who were inevitably in conflict of interest, this ultimately resulted in disputes and obstructions of the work of the rectors, and this was a problem that had to be resolved differently. Distinction to name, to suggest - is all; because if someone calls through the government, then it is an independent appointment. But if the government proposes, then it happens, for example. is a representative of employers from the cabinet of the President of the previous government, such as in the current Higher Education Council. It's not independence, and it's not what's meant here. The law that we intend to amend this year desires this mess, which is in law, in particular [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] correct and address the issue of undergraduate training, which is not sufficiently resolved and some others; the rigour of higher education to resolve what is important. [[...]] And a word about [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-18-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It was five minutes for you and for some debaters, five minutes and fifteen seconds. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. If the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will set the meeting tomorrow, Friday, 19. 6. 2009, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the seventh session of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9:30. Thank you very much and very much.
