ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter, Janja Klasinc, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Victory Jelinčič noble, Ljubo Germič, Aloise Posedel, Bogdan Barovich, Miran Jerič, Milenko Ziherl, mag. Vasja Klavora from 12.00 p.m. on and mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE REPRESENTATION LAW OF THE SINDICATE REPRESENTATIVEITY (ORNAL PROCEDURE). The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a representative of the bill's proponents, Mr Mag. Branku Grims, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u2	Your Honor! I am gathering a very nice greeting on behalf of the SDS Group or the billmakers! Old Slovenian wisdom says: Clean accounts, good friends. And today we face the content that best reflects this old wisdom. You all know that some of the events in the past period have greatly undermined confidence in Slovenian trade unions, especially in their leadership, but unfortunately also in trade unionism in general. This is bad, because it undermines some democratic standard, ability and readiness already achieved for social dialogue and for social partnership, which is, however, a gain that we certainly respect and is worth preserving in Slovenia. The only way to break the spiral of rumors about how many thousands of euros someone has in the leadership of an individual union, how much property he manages, where someone loads shares, what real estate they have, where someone buys and sells, and all the similar smart and not very smart things that go around in the form of rumors among people, so that all of this is interrupted, and to restore confidence in unions in general, is certainly the only right way to make their business transparent, so that people can get to know the truth in the best possible way. Because this is the only way that will certainly pave the way for strengthening democratic standards already achieved in this area. We therefore propose that the structure of their business and property should be divulged to the public and this is also justified by the fact that there is a clear public interest here. Look, trade unions not only play a role as a job protector, but they have an important role in our social and political system or in the life of our country because of the already established Institute of Social Partnership and Social Dialogue. You all know that many forms of social partnership are institutionalised in different regulations, in different agreements and implemented in several forms both in individual councils, which are intended exclusively for social partnership and are partly covered in some other legal solutions. This already explains that the role of trade unions is much broader than the role of some private organisations alone, but that they also perform an important social task. For this reason, the proposal for transparency in their operations is also legally justified. But it is in the first place, we are firmly convinced of all the proponents, this interest of trade unions. If I keep going where I started. Only by fully presenting their business to the public will it be possible to strengthen the lost confidence in these same unions so that the scenes that we have seen in the past weeks, when certain union leaders have even literally sparked as a sign of mistrust, or, if you want, even the untrusters of the workers, who are supposed to be protected and advocated by these unions. We are convinced that it would be good for the proposed solutions, namely transparency and transparency of the business and property of trade unions, to bear the fruit of the highest consensus in the National Assembly, because it is very difficult for us to imagine that part of the policy would now begin to oppose this vehemently. This would only reinforce all the assumptions that exist during work that there is a link between some of the narrow elites of these unions and some of the narrow political elites of individual political parties, which, of course, have something to do with them, so workers, they hide and carry out everything that is possible and impossible at their expense. So let me get back to the beginning. In order to strengthen social dialogue as a value today, it would be necessary to accept the proposal of the public and the transparency of trade unions, for old wisdom says: Clean accounts, good friends.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Please. Mr Ivan Svetnik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u4	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal of a group of Members would first lay in the context of the fact that the foundations of the trade union function are laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides in Article 76 that the establishment and functioning of trade unions and the integration of trade unions are free, and therefore the Law on representativeness lays down only the basic conditions for acquiring the characteristics of the legal person of the trade union. This union gets it by giving it a decision to keep the union statute. Under the law, the trade union must attach to the application for the preservation of the Statute a record of the establishment of the meeting and the statutes of which storage is required. And that's it for once. However, the provisions of the terms and methods of operation of the union do not contain this law. Syndicates can thus regulate their own internal actions, while, of course, they have an obligation to submit annual reports to the AJPES, as set out in the Accounting Act. In accordance with Article 51, paragraph 3, of the Accounting Act, the AJPES must make available the data contained in the annual reports to any person requesting it and shall also issue to him, against the reimbursement of the actual costs, a provision of the data required. According to the RS Government, such arrangements provide the public with data on the operation of trade unions and their assets. Similarly, as set out in the proposal, the Company Act provides that AJPES must publicly publish annual reports and consolidated annual reports of companies, cooperatives and entrepreneurs by capturing them in a computerised form and by publishing them on websites dedicated to the public publication of annual reports, but at the same time the law provides that companies, cooperatives and entrepreneurs must pay the compensation laid down in the compensation rate for services provided by AJPES under the Company Act. The proposal tabled by the Group of Members and Members does not address this issue, i.e. who, in the case of the publication of the annual reports of trade unions, would not cover the costs of public publication. In any event, it should be noted that the IAPES would need certain budgets for the preparation of the relevant application and for the implementation of the public publication, which are not foreseen for this purpose. Let me add to this that the international comparison we have made shows that only in a few exceptions, where its activity is extended through internal regulation of union relations only in a few exceptions provides for the obligation of such publication, and in most countries they do not impose such legal obligations on the union. This is a substantive problem in the sense that such a requirement against trade unions would constitute a very problematic precedent for regulating relations between the State and civil society organisations, which is also a union and could mean that similar requirements would also be addressed to other non-governmental and humanitarian organisations, as well as to churches and similar institutions in our country. In fact, our judgment is that such a solution would actually do more harm than it did to the union or undermine its credibility and independence and, of course, its trust in the union. We agree, however, that the union should be strengthened as a civil society organisation. On this basis, the Government opposes the so-called proposal for a law supplementing the law on the representativeness of trade unions, since the current legislation already allows public access to the annual reports of trade unions to anyone who so requests, so the Government proposes to the National Assembly of Slovenia that the proposal for a law supplementing this Law on the representativeness of trade unions should not be adopted as an appropriate basis for the next stages of the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law supplementing the Union's Law on representativeness came about after the independence of 1993. At that time, we gave some of the unions representation, and today it's a little harder because the government doesn't want to spread this circle of negotiators, if we can call it that. And at that time relatively few documents were needed to prove the representativeness of the union. As we can see, we have a whole range of trade unions that have the privilege of representativeness and, by official duty, the Government must also talk to them, negotiate and negotiate as partners and also allow co-ordination through the workers' world. However, we can quickly ask ourselves if everything is transparent when we look at the Law on representativeness and the establishment of a law that says that their report must be made public in the annual reports of trade unions and published through the APES. That's what we know it's not. I can also say in defense to the unions that unions need financial resources, because they form a strike fund with them. And if they don't have this strike fund, then the unions are actually kind of powerless and they don't have the resources to fight legitimately. Their legitimate battle is an item. Here we can quickly go into a dilemma, what's right, what's wrong. However, if we look at membership, membership in these unions is deprived today because it does not know where the members are and what their union is, whether it is a healthy core or there is a strike fund or there is social security here, or whether the union leadership has spent this money or not - because this information is not accessible. We do know, however, that individual unions have huge financial resources and do not want the government to see them in their account, because then their power will also be revealed in the opposite sense. So the dilemma is open. To judge whether it is right to publish it in a transparent way and that almost everyone can see it is essentially a matter. However, at least members should be allowed to pour pure wine, which is the duty of trade unions to know where the members are. If we are looking at marital discord under the current legislation, surely what the applicants are proposing is necessary, and there is nothing wrong with that if that were to happen. However, in this context, my word is also in the defence of trade unions, but we must protect this information in this context in order to somehow provide the unions with what I have just stated. I don't know how to do this, but the minister will have to make sure with his team. The power of the union is expressed in money. As much money as the union has collected in the account, it is so strong, as long as the sentence can also predict sentences, it offers free legal aid and other matters. But there's another dilemma that comes up with us, and these are the salaries of union officials. Why these salaries are so high, why they are paid in such a non-transparent way and why such membership is collected in those companies that are just prior to bankruptcy or in enterprises that receive only minimum personal income. And this should somehow be regulated by this law. If we take the Mure case alone, workers who received EUR 400 or less of their personal income paid up to EUR 10 membership fee. This account has collected millions of dollars of money available to the union today. The workers are on the road. Where that money's going is a big question. Will it go to union February or will it split up among the workers because the company is gone? The open cases make it necessary that the aim of the novel, which follows the principle of public disclosure of annual reports, is not sufficient to supplement this law. I can support what the proposer has proposed, but I want the Government to deal with this area more complexly, more comprehensively, to come before the National Assembly with some law that will drink water in these respects as well and address these shortcomings that we cite. It is not right that on the one hand we have unions with full powers and representativeness and that we allow them to hide their financial situation from their membership. And it is not right that the salaries of union leaders are not limited. It's unacceptable. I'm not going to appoint anyone to make unionists pay more than the Prime Minister. If the Government proposes a proposal for a law and a supplement to the law on the representativeness of the union, which will regulate the whole open issue, we will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Minister, the Secretary and all of you! I must say that today we have a really interesting law before us, which we will not give support to at the Liberal Democracy Club, because this is certainly not the most urgent, anti-crisis measure at this time. In particular, because it is clear to all the well-intentioned explanations that the public is already public with the assets, assets and operations of trade unions, it is only necessary to make an effort to obtain this information and anyone can obtain it. Now the bill-maker wants what is publicly and normally available, to hang posters on the largest roadside billboard, and from this, someone wants to forge political capital and profit. Unions are certainly a necessary and important story in this country. If my thoughts return to yesterday's interview in the newspaper Finance, which was given by two important union leaders, and it states in the text that the biggest opponent of unions on the one hand is ownership of property, and on the other hand politics, then I can think where the dog taco prays if there is a strategy of someone and some in this country that is operating on us daily with military rhetoric and so-called headquarters and other documents, then I fear that this is also the case in this law and the goals in this direction. It is a desire to disclose publicly the business and property of trade unions and their annual reports. Since the unions are private law persons, I think that this interest must be borne primarily by those who pay different unions before and in addition to politics. And we, those of us who are part of a variety of unions, must be interested in what happens to a person of public law with ours, yours and my money. Even in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are of the opinion that this property is well taken care of. I am sure that today's debate will show where the dog taco prays in this story as well, and what are the policy objectives in this area, whether it is possible to continue the story that started in Gorenje, Mura and elsewhere. If I return to the content of the bill and why is it not suitable for us to continue to deal with it? With regard to the objectives of the amendment, this is a follow-up to the public principle, which, according to the proposaler, is achieved by the obligation to disclose the annual reports publicly, I would like to add the following. It is correctly noted that unions are legal entities of private law and are required to submit an annual report under applicable legislation. However, we do not agree with the claim that these reports are no longer public, as they are the source of the annual accounts of the business books that contain the definition of public documents, which are made up of the balance sheet, the statement of revenue, expenditure and so on. It is also not right for the proponents to not make these reports public under the current legislation. On the contrary, an organisation authorised to publish data, in this case AJPES, must also provide any person, precisely to anyone who so wishes, with a view to providing an overview and a copy of the data against the reimbursement of actual costs. This precise issue of compensation was not foreseen by the proposer in the draft law. Or in other words, on the one hand, we say that the law has no additional financial implications, and in any way, we impose an additional obligation on such a law of the ACPS, as we know how it is financed, and thus additional costs, which, at a time when money can be more useful for a lot of other things, seems unwise. Let me conclude by stressing once again that the IAPES must allow anyone who expresses a wish to look into the annual reports of trade unions. This allows for existing and existing legislation so far. Therefore, the main objective of the proposal - the principle of the public - has already been achieved. At the Liberal Democracy Club, of course, we are always working hard for transparency, public transparency and transparency. We will also do so in this point of the law, which proposes a legal solution that already exists in this country. So since it would be a doubling or some additional upgrade, perhaps even with a political motive, we do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! From the proposal's introduction, I could conclude, on the basis of his conclusion that the proposed amendment is in the interest of the union, that a broad social dialogue had previously been carried out, resulting from today's proposal under consideration by the National Assembly. Of course, this is hardly the case, although those who propose it often have in mind and also refer to social dialogue, a social partnership that is not perceived in this proposal. You've probably all heard that, "Please don't defend me, because they're gonna kill me." The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Representation of Unions stated in the objectives of the law that the aim of the amendment of the law, which follows the principle of the public, is to establish the obligation of public disclosure of information on the employment and property of trade unions or annual reports. In order to function successfully and achieve the objectives of trade unions, their business and property must be public and transparent. Today, we have heard many times that this condition has already been fulfilled in the current legal system. However, it can be concluded from this proposal that the applicant is completely unaware of the purpose and purpose of the law on the representativeness of trade unions. The purpose of the law is not to regulate the operation of trade unions in the Republic of Slovenia, but rather to determine the way the legal person is acquired and the quality of representativeness acquired. The obligation to submit an annual report and its publication under that law have no bearing either on the acquisition of legal personality or on the acquisition of representativeness. The property of the legal person of the union, the union shall be obtained by issuing a decision on the retention of the statute or other basic act. This is a condition for achieving the characteristics of a legal person. As a condition of representativeness, the law provides for the democratic functioning and exercise of freedom of union membership, the exercise of membership rights and at the same time obligations, the continuity of operation for at least the last six months, the independence of state authorities and employers, I stress this in particular, the independence of state authorities and employers, the financing mostly from membership and other own resources and a certain number of members in accordance with the law. So, to put it mildly, the amendment proposalr has missed the law and indirectly imposes obligations on the APES to publish. The events that we and we can follow, the various suggestions on enriching trade union representatives at the expense of workers, the submission of the proposal that we are considering today, the daily assessments on the bias of trade unions and the favour of the current government coalition, of course, are not coincidences. Trade union assessments can and are different, but it is not possible to overlook the fact that the establishment and functioning of trade unions is also a free one after the constitution. The state must not interfere with the operation of trade unions. The right to freely establish unions also means the right of trade unions to adopt their own rules of action and freely choose their representatives. This means, of course, that workers decide freely or join the union, how they will organise the union, how they will operate and how they will manage their assets. Many words have been used in the past in connection with property. However, an agreement was reached on the distribution of assets, where the assets received by each trade union centre were also clearly and publicly signed. Members and members of the union also organise supervision. This function shall be performed by the Supervisory Boards. Their task is to control the operation of the union and to manage the assets. Members and members of the trade union shall elect or appoint the compositions of these supervisory committees which shall report their findings to the trade union authorities. And once again, which is essential, membership in the union is not mandatory. So it's voluntary, it's an individual's choice. These individuals and members must be given a transparent presentation of their activities and business to members and members. It's also property management. But not to all, not to those who are not members. This would be meaningful and legally binding if we were financed from the state budget. Not at all, not at all. Should the amendment be supported, trade unions would be an exception to the obligation to publish the annual report. However, or precisely because the applicant has written down that the proposal to amend the law is not proposed with a view to coordinating with the acquis of the European Union, since this area is not regulated, it is right to say a few words about it. I will introduce how this issue is regulated in some countries of the European Union. I should first admit that it is difficult to find an international comparison to support his proposal. If I walk through countries, I can find out the following, Austria - there is no legal obligation for trade unions to publish their financial reports publicly. Belgium - there is no legal obligation, the Czech Republic - there is no legal obligation, Estonia - in July 2008 an amended law on non-profit organisations has entered into force which requires trade unions to publish their financial reports publicly since 2010. Greece - there is no legal obligation. Ireland - published data refer only to the number of union members co-financed by the working party. The amount of all revenue in one year shall be the amount of expenditure and the final situation in the account. Italy - there is no legal obligation, Hungary - there is no legal obligation, Germany - there is no legal obligation. Poland - there is no legal obligation. United Kingdom - there is a legal obligation for trade unions to publish all financial data and not just funds intended to finance a working party: Reason: Such provisions should be adopted mainly because unions manage different funds, including pension funds. Malta - is not a legal obligation. Sweden - there is no legal obligation, Portugal - there is no legal obligation. Spain - is not a legal obligation. France - there is no legal obligation. This is a comparison of today's proposal under consideration and reinforcement with international comparisons. It is really difficult to find an argument for the proposal that we have on the table today. Not only would the adoption of today's proposal to intervene in the autonomy of the trade union provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia be contrary to international documents. Let me mention only the ILO Labour Convention 87 on Union Freedoms and the Protection of Union Rights. In this respect, it is worth noting that the current regime can be disputed, since the aforementioned Convention on Paragraph 490 clearly provides that the supervision of public institutions over the financial operations of trade unions must not exceed the obligation to submit periodic reports. As I have already mentioned, it is clear from the paragraph cited that the supervision of public institutions over the financial operations of trade unions must not exceed the obligation to submit periodic reports. However, the Accounting Act provides in the third paragraph of Article 51 that an organisation which is authorised to process and publish data must make the data provided for in the annual reports submitted available to anyone who so requests. However, it must also issue a copy of the required data against the reimbursement of actual costs. From that point of view, it is so possible to understand that IAPES must allow anyone who wishes to do so to have a look at the annual reports of trade unions. However, the costs of the actual costs are extremely low and are moving from €8 to €10 after the APES check. This means that everyone has access to trade union data and property. This fact also proves that public awareness of trade union data is not the real motive for today's proposed changes to the law. Taking into account the foregoing, the reasonable question is raised as to whether the current arrangements are also in line with the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, number 87, as I mentioned earlier. Let me add to this the so-called strike fund, and this today was a speech that is the world's biggest trade union secret. Its scope, of course, means the power of the union in the case of a sentence. So let the unions reveal this part and thus communicate the power of their action skills, I ask you. My answer is no, of course not. I cannot help but conclude that trade unions are under pressure on the basis of estimates that they are favoured by the coalition and unfavorable opposition. How interesting! The memory is still alive, the first protests in the previous mandate of the right-centre government took place after a year! There were no protests for a year. The proposal for a single tax rate has led to massive protests. That's when the Prime Minister expressed his concern for the protestors because of the bad weather. The current questions may also be why there are no protests yet, conditioned by time - related concern. Well, the protests were received by this government, the current one, as soon as the ministers began to carry out their duties. Right away, two days after that. In view of the time and conditions in which we live, these protests are likely inevitable. However, I will be interested to see if any union, like years ago, will support the efforts of the current government with posters on the billboards. So much for union and political ties. The proposed law is therefore an orchestrated attack on trade unions, especially the largest trade union centre, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, which the president of the largest opposition party has identified as the laity of the ruling coalition. Such statements are more than absurd. Such loud and rebellious lacquers, which threaten to protest virtually every government proposal for structural change, are probably not interested in any government. However, it is likely that any authority would want to invest in the promotion of government measures in such trade unions that are prepared for membership money, i.e. the money of workers and workers. We've seen this before. And, of course, the presidents of these independent unions, and I am not talking about the exact title of a particular union, would run on the list of ruling parties. Interestingly, we have seen this in the past; I say, ruling parties, not opposition parties. Such unions and trade unions would rightly measure up to the lacquers of the ruling policy. However, there are no such unions in this mandate, respected colleagues and colleagues. We remember them well, as I said, from the previous term, but when the current main opposition parties were not disturbed for the president, because they were accidentally acting as Prime Minister at the time. In the Group of Social Democrats we see freedom of union association as one of the most important gains in the fight for workers' rights. We do not view trade unions as one of the key partners in social dialogue. In this dialogue, unions represent the weaker side and therefore act on the principle of solidarity. The membership is paid by all members to use it to help a member who needs help. This is solidarity. From solidarity and numbers, unions draw their strength. In the Group of Social Democrats, we often disagree with trade unions in positions. Or maybe. It depends entirely on the content we are dealing with. However, regardless of the differences in positions, the attacks on autonomy and the independence of trade unions, as we are witnessing today, cannot be understood, as it is our assessment that this is actually an attack on social partnership and solidarity alone. Obviously, some want to regain what they lost last year as quickly as possible, are willing to undermine the level of social partnership achieved and even the values on which Slovenian society is founded. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not participate in such a dismantling of Slovenian society and will therefore not support the proposed amendments to the law on the representativeness of trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Your Honor! In view of the fact that the debate on this law has hardly begun, we have already received sharp arrows and accusations. Allow me. What do we propose to propose? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the APES should make public the annual reports of trade unions. This report, however, consists of a balance sheet, a statement of revenue and expenditure, explains the statements and the business report. However, the JAPES must be submitted to it by the last day of February of the current year. And that is so bad that we have already received such serious accusations before the debate begins. Trade unions are private legal persons who do not have to publish annual reports under current legislation. But unions are not any person of public law. They are a very important act or persons of public law. In Slovenia, all the employed members of the union were in the past, so to speak, the membership was automatic, which we can say may not have been so bad. Today it is free, which does not mean that the organisation is completely autonomous. The fact of history teaches us or indicates that in Slovenia more than half a million citizens and citizens are unionally organised. However, each member has to pay a membership fee. It is already simple to say that a large number of members, despite a small membership fee, raises a large sum of money annually, a series of millions of euros. Of course, according to their activities, unions also have spending. In the past, trade unions have also had a vast wealth that has experienced different fates in the transition process. Various questions arise, but there are no answers. We could say that it is precisely because of the non-disclosure of information, the balance sheet, or the hidden that it raises new questions and new doubts. The questions to which there are no answers are, of course, justified, but certainly the doubts and indications that arise in this regard do not necessarily have to be justified. But according to the old rule: What is hidden is more interesting and creates doubts and discomfort. In the last period when the financial situation in Slovenia is exacerbated, when the survival or assembly of the family budget is an increasingly current topic that has gained meaning and any spending of money is being monitored more closely, especially when it comes to funds collected by members themselves and they themselves create a fund. And the union funds are definitely like that. Recent events in major Slovenian companies have shown that people are also sensitive to the work of their representatives towards employers. The workers expressed their doubts about their representatives and also publicly expressed their mistrust. Where doubts are considered to be representation, they certainly also apply to the things the organisation has in place or the means by which it manages. However, given that there are no funds available, it is all the more important where and how union membership is used and how the use of these funds is. No matter how much of these union membership funds are spent on the salaries of officials and how much for other activities and which they are. The financial statement shall be more visible than any other general definition. No one claims that funds are not used deliberately. However, doubts about use, which are not public, are presented and exist and are increasingly deepening, and there is a growing lack of confidence. Finally, doubt about consumption increased the conclusion that trade unions also own shares. It's okay. But there is an immediate array of questions, whose shares, and why those who have made the decision do so. That's the way it is if the union balance or anyone else's balance sheets aren't public. And last but not least, according to classical theory, union membership is also used to compensate workers' salaries in case of a sentence. The last major and outstanding case was the phrase of the 1980s English miners, led by the legendary Scargill at the time, and the union paid six months' wages from its previous membership. We know we've never had a case like this before, and it's always paid the company for the strike. Therefore, the question arises as to what money was invested and how much money was invested. Is this even the kind of union organization we have? I would like to point out that no one in the Slovenian Democratic Party claims that funds are being manipulated and that more than half a million Slovenian workers are being used for trade union membership. However, the annual reports of trade unions, which, according to some media information, range into tens of millions of euros, are not public, and questions and doubts arise - whether they are justified or not - would not be judged. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose amending the law to make trade union balance public, transparent for every citizen, without any additional payment for inspection. If everything's okay, you don't have to hide, and you don't have to do unnecessary damage. Transparency of work and business would ensure a return of trust in trade unions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the law on the public balance sheet of trade unions for further proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As we have heard, the draft law before us relates to the issuance of annual reports by trade unions or their public publication via the APES. The fact that unions are legal persons of private law is what holds - they are not persons of public law, as was probably said by mistake. Individuals of private law are required to submit an annual report, as stated in the balance sheet, income and expenditure accounts, and to explain the accounts of the business report, under the accounting law and the law on state statistics to the ACPS. The report must be submitted to the APES by the last day of February of the current year; these are generally known parameters. The proposal refers to the fact that trade unions are largely financed by membership fees paid by their members, so public disclosure of property and trade union data should not be disputed. Proposalers want to follow the principle of the public and thus lay down the obligation to disclose public information on the operation and property of trade unions or annual reports. In their view, this is the only major solution for the law to publish these annual reports, since the Accounting Act provides that these business books are public documents. The third paragraph of Article 51 of the same Act also provides that APES must make available to anyone who so requests or issue such copy of the data required against the reimbursement of actual costs. Thus, the dilemma about this desire for public data is clearly only a dilemma as to who will pay the compensation of these 8 to 10 euros. Now, if we're talking about this here, it's probably a waste of our time. Of course, the operation and establishment of trade unions under Article 76 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is free. The law only lays down the basic conditions for the acquisition of legal personality characteristics. The law to be amended today and the law on the representativeness of trade unions does not contain provisions on conditions and modalities, taking into account the nature of the trade union association resulting from that constitutional provision. So the unions themselves can regulate their way of functioning with their own internal acts. Here at least some in our parliamentary group may agree with the proposer, or we feel that unions themselves could have done more on this transparency and thus credibility. It is likely that the confidence of membership in their work would be increased if these practices had already existed. If, of course, they already exist, then I apologize for doing the unions justice. However, it would probably be easier for many workers to decide which union to join if they knew this information. However, in specific cases, when operating in different actions, different cases, perhaps in the case of the Mutual Health Insurance Company, it would be good for the public, for all involved, to know if there are any financial links or any other between the unions and perhaps any other organisation. All those who deal with politics know exactly what a trifle the finances of our customers are, that we must not be financed from abroad, because this may be an unfair way of doing our work, subject to what kind of service has been obtained in the past, and therefore we could not make an autonomous decision. But as it is said, these are things that should probably be resolved by the union in relation to their membership. The fact is, of course, that this person has a private right - a union in our legal order has great public powers. The role recognised by the Republic of Slovenia in the Economic and Social Council and elsewhere is probably European and globally comparable and is not small. In the Group of Members, we really do not believe that the real purpose of the proposal is merely to make trade unions more transparent. We fear that the real purpose is to undermine the credibility of trade unions and, as a result, to deny the marriage or even the constitutional role of trade unions. Maybe they won't have it in any other republic. They still have it in this republic. And given this fact and the fact that this data is already available today and must allow everyone who wants to do so to have a look at the annual reports of the unions, we will not really support the bill in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u16	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Mr Minister and Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the representativeness of trade unions. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to start by expressing our surprise that the drafter of the amendment before us has made some fundamental nomological mistakes, which one of the most active investors of the bill proposals in this mandate should by no means afford. Moreover, the very content of the error suggests that the fact that the applicant actually did not have a serious intention to deal with the problem that is being addressed in the novel is a populism failure by the applicant. While in the DeSUS Group, we generally agree with the proposaler's warnings that union property should be made public. The daily publication of the salary of trade unionists on Slovenian railways, which exceeds the salary levels of many Slovenian Members, repeatedly points out that in the operation of trade unions something creaks. However, we agree with the Government's view that the proposal does not take quite a few important factors into account. For example, it wrongly states that reports issued annually by trade unions are not public, which is contrary to Article 5 of the Accounting Act. More importantly, it seems to us that the proposaler has overlooked the fact that AJPES does not have the budgetary resources that it would need in order to prepare appropriate applications and implement the public publication of the annual reports. However, Article 51 of the Accounting Act provides that an organisation empowered to process and publish data, i.e. the IAPES, must allow anyone wishing to do so to have an overview of the annual reports of trade unions. This ensures that trade union data and their assets are made available to the public. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we consider that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u18	Nice greeting, Vice President! Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal to supplement the law, which was adopted long ago in 1993, because we support the public publication of data on the property and business of trade unions. Trade unions are legal entities of private law and therefore reports which are required by trade unions to submit annually to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services of IJPES are not publicly available. However, it is also true that the Accounting Act in Article 51 also provides that the IJPES, which we have with us an organisation empowered to process and publish data, must make available the data from the annual reports of legal persons to anyone who so requests and also issue a copy of the data required against the reimbursement of the actual costs. Therefore, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, there is no reservation that the data should also be published publicly and be available without a specific request from the AIPES. Above all, we hope that such public disclosure of documents on the property and business of trade unions will affect greater information among members and trade unions and, consequently, affect the more independent and active work of trade unions. However, if such a publication, as we have heard today, were to undermine the credibility of trade unions, then it means that something is really wrong and this calls even more so after the publication of this data. Also Slovenian managers and ultimately politicians, with us, who are the most critical target of union representatives, we need to make our assets public very publicly, as well as our incomes and all the like with our activities. Therefore, once again, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is right that such data is public and that we will only help this union to reject unwarranted criticism and that they will only be able to do their work better.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The main objective of the new law, which is ahead of us, is to disclose the data of trade union organisations. The proponents see the justification of such an intervention as the union organisations are financed by membership fees and there are public insinuations about the misuse of funds. I'm not going to support the marriage itself. There are at least four reasons for this. The first reason is in the very purpose and purpose of the law, which is not least expressed in the title. The point is that the law is intended for practical regulation of the status issue. This is said exclusively to speak of the way a legal person acquires his or her characteristics and acquires his or her representativeness. The provisions on the conditions of operation of trade unions are not contained in the law. This is because the Government, which has been preparing this law, is precisely aware that it would be in conflict with Article 76 of the Constitution, which defines the right to self-regulation and prohibits the intervention and interference of the State with the establishment and functioning of trade unions. The least that we could achieve by adopting your proposal is that the purpose and objectives of the law, if not the other thing that I have already said, would be a violation of the Constitution. Another time. The applicants argue that the reports submitted annually by the trade unions are not public. That's not true. All those who submit their balance sheets to the JAPES know that anyone who wishes to obtain this information can also obtain this information, they have also been obtained by journalists and they have been misinterpreted in the public on many occasions, but if anyone wants it, they can also obtain a copy of this data against a minimum payment of EUR 8 to 10. In this regard, the Government, which you have heard, also believes that the public is provided with data on the operation of trade unions as well as their assets. Third time. Trade unions are a voluntary organisation that joins those who want to. Membership is not compulsory, may enter or withdraw from membership. The responsibility of trade unions for their operation is solely responsibility to their members, not responsibility to those who are not. The right to the free establishment of unions means that unions themselves adopt their own rules of action, legal regulations and obligations that go beyond the obligation to submit periodic reports would constitute a violation of ILO Convention No 87, Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 8 of the International Covenant on Economic and Social and Cultural Rights. Fourth time. Trade unions are individuals of private law, such as individuals of private law of society, institutions and religious organisations. All these entities shall be subject to the right to self-regulation and to the restriction of State interference in their operation. They know what systems they are and still limit the autonomy of civil society. You'll always have a lot to say about that. What if such a request were made for all civil law bodies? Well, no. You're demanding it for the unions. By adopting the proposed supplement, trade unions would thus be the only private law person whose annual report would be made public, which would discriminate against trade unions in relation to other civil law entities. When we ask ourselves what the poet was going to say, what is the real purpose of the marriage promoters. In my strong concern for the neglected and blinded union membership in the Social Protection Act, I did not find a definition of custody for special cases that would describe such a situation. Members are adults in full consciousness and can act as members and demand their rights. If they don't reach them, they can get out. Only and only the planned demolition of trade unions, which some of the most visible representatives of the opposition have estimated to be an easy-to-do position, is behind this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you. Given the relatively painful last debate, allow me to wish you a good morning. It seems to me that it would be time for everyone in this Chamber to really wake up in the early morning hours for Montenegro, but we are in Slovenia, in the European Union, and I propose that we also talk in this way. For now most of what you have claimed or what you are putting at the root of your claims, all of you from the minister down below, is mildly said, at least under the question of putting this into the light of some published articles in some of the most read public newspapers in the last period. Let's go in one order. First of all, how is it with this strong publicity of this data, about which you all claim to exist and that it is accessible to everyone. Let us see how this was true in the specific case of a journalist who published a very informative article on this subject. "Secret annual reports. Business unions report with annual reports to APES and Durs, but there are none in the JAPES database and the unions do not publish them on their websites. The unions are legal entities of private law, so the annual reports have never been published, and on the question of where to find the annual reports of trade unions, they explained on the IJPES." Funny, how does that go with what you've been saying here?Oh, my God! And this reporter obviously didn't get those reports. This follows very clearly from the article. But if you doubt this journalist, ladies and gentlemen, let me read to you what Natasa Pirc Musar says, the information officer, to whom you are so eager and so many times rely and ensure that her opinions are extremely professional and well-founded. I quote: "Data on the number of members and revenues are required for the unions to disclose to members, but not to the public," said Nataša Pirc Musar, an information officer yesterday. The Information Officer stressed, however, that we cannot obtain this information on a legal basis, ladies and gentlemen. This is Natasha Pirc Musar's position. I quote him again and think again of what you've been saying for an hour: "You can't get this information through legal channels in the current legal system." So let's move on, and he says, "unless we ask any of the union members for them." For ye have all argued in one voice, "the conscience, and this is something which the unions must present every year in front of and at all times, every moment of their membership." What about it? In recent days, I have spoken to several of my colleagues in various companies, and some of them are also members of the union, no one is a union official. You will not believe this, but neither of these have ever received any insight into the salaries of union officials regarding union property, income and expenditure. It can happen that all of them are members of such unions that do not do so and that a union does so consistently. But there's obviously something really wrong here. Moreover, one of the senior unionists in one of the major crane factories, who had almost given up on this union, told me the following information: "I asked for this insight, especially in the light of these developments." You know what the answer was: "These data are only available to union officials." Interesting, isn't it, just union officials. He, as an ordinary member, can't get a glimpse of anything. Interesting union organization, I must say. Then you wonder if in the same article or another commentator along with it already spreads thoughts that go in the direction of union tycoonism - this is the concept that they used - and it comes out right from that. I'm going to read a quote that's also very instructive about how journalists, who you know for sure before, are just not related to us: "The numbers on union salaries and all the others are one of the most protected secrets," I quote, "as if it were not hard-earned labour euros, but the secret accounts of some tycoon in the Liechtenstein bank." Interesting! How does that go with what you've all been saying for an hour now? Personally, I must say, this is not going well, and I think that most workers and workers in Slovenia do not go together. But there's still a few other things we should warn you about. There are very interesting contradictions already in your debates. Thus, the minister argued that all the data was available to everyone, "everyone can get this information," and I have this quote right here, while a representative of the largest government party then relativised it, "I, members and members are obliged to present this data." That's what you call it, not everyone else, is it? Let's get a little bit of alignment between us. Above all, I would quote Natasa Pirc Musar again, who said, "We can't get to this data on a legal basis." Well!? Let's move on. "There is no legal obligation in many European countries," you said. This is true, but I have had the opportunity to observe for myself that many in these countries do it themselves because they publish it in union newspapers and there is no problem with it. But it is true that in some union property is the greatest secret, but in some, not everywhere. In fact, what this essential "hacker" is and what your own words really put you back on the line: because it's a secret in those countries where the union pays the cost of a sentence. In Slovenia, however, the sentence is constitutional law. Tell me, which sentence has he financed fully so far and paid the union? This is why it is totally out of compare and in those countries where the union pays all the costs of the sentence, from the costs of the worker to the I don't know what, it makes sense and justifiable. With us, this arrangement is completely different, and it serves this property to raise additional funds for the salaries of union officials. The union support of the current government was mentioned. I am not quite sure if I am very diplomatic that the exact same valet was with the previous and present government. However, I firmly believe that there is no temptation for the unions to support it, only they know that union leaders would support it, but the workers would not. This is the problem they have now and perhaps have a schizophrenic situation between leadership and union membership. It is interesting what a respected interlocutor, a representative of the SD's largest government party, "that this is an attack on union independence", I quote. Now, allow a very clear answer here, a respected colleague who is not currently, unfortunately, in the Chamber, but the biggest attack on union independence is the fact that one of the highest trade union officials, the president of the union at the same time a long-standing member of the Presidency of the political party. This is the largest possible attack on the independence of the union that we can imagine, What do you think a political party could notice in a time after the independence of the state of Slovenia? You're not gonna believe this. This is your client, SD. In fact, in the legal precursor, which is a direct, political, legal and all-inclusive gateway to your current SD, your presidency has been a long-standing member of the presidency of the largest union. And so, please, when you talk about union independence and what is an attack on union independence, remember your own behavior. However, I agree with my colleagues from Zares who have warned that trade unions in our system have very large public powers. The Economic and Social Council has been mentioned, and I am warning you that this is not just the case. But that, according to our legislation, regulations, many points of these powers are wider, extends further into different structures, different institutions, and therefore their public role is extremely important. This also makes it difficult to establish or substantiate this comparability. You have used the expression that this is European or globally comparable, and I say that the position of trade unions as regards public powers is incompatible with us because it is better, it is more important, they have significantly greater public powers and more power than they have in most other countries in the world. That is also why their situation is so much more sensitive. And if we want to preserve this as a quality, the first thing is to restore at least one part of our trust. But one part of your trust can only be restored by doing all things related to your business, your wages, your assets, your transparency to make them public. It's just that their public authority is the reason, that some of you have apparently overheard. The key reason, which justifies and I say, also constitutionally permits, allows for such a solution. If the regime were different, if it were not for these public powers, I would agree with many of your concerns, but in our order they have an extremely public mandate and an extremely public role that we accept as a democratic quality and let us preserve it. For see if he advocates keeping everything secret, if he claims that the first newspaper article that comes into hand puts at least a question whether or not it is a lie, then I fear that today those who claim to be on the side of the unions are in fact engaged in some way in the riverbeds of social dialogue and that there is actually a situation that will be difficult to maintain the current situation and spread of unionism and thus also of social partnership, which is an important element that has always been established in the Slovenian social and political space. Therefore, all those who advocated keeping all things secret to their eyes would ask what you were hiding. And let me ask you why you take over the role of the funeralers of unionism and the liquidators of the social partnership in Slovenia, which is already the legal and social state by the Constitution itself. This is about the fact that there is certainly no time for the proponents of social dialogue. On the contrary, it is time for social dialogue to be strengthened, according to our firm conviction, but it has been strengthened on a high-quality basis, when every employee will also trust the unions, but the first reason, the first foundation of such trust, is the old Slovenian wisdom to which I always return: pure accounts, good friends.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u23	Mr. Yuri, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u24	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. In his performance when he wished good morning to all of us, the speaker said literally: perhaps it is an early hour in Montenegro, not Slovenia. It is an eccentric insult on a national basis, and I ask the President to warn him of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u25	What you said, Mr Yuri, I agree with this, because with this country we have friendly and all other good relations. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For someone it's a good night too late today, so I can agree with the good morning, but I could also say, "Good night." I'm aware of the difficulty of explaining the mag. Grims, what I was saying or what I was thinking, because he knows what I meant when I spoke and represented my position. Although I am aware of this difficulty, I have decided on a replica, an explanation, a hope dying last, otherwise teachers would have long stopped teaching in our school system. I was talking about the publication of data or the availability of data, and I was talking about ICPES, and I was talking about who has the opportunity to get data on ICPES, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I was talking, and this was all messed up by Mr Mag. Grims, on the rights of membership to data within the union. I have talked about the supervisory committees within the union and the rights of members and members of the union to be presented with both the operation and the management of assets. Of course, the interest of this membership is needed for the meetings, meetings, meetings that they hold to require these reports, and they are obliged to receive them, because they also elect their own leaderships, appoint bodies to the Supervisory Committee and are likely to be accountable to them, not to everyone who wants to. If I am paying for membership in the union, as a member of the union, I am entitled to the information that the union has and must provide to me. And then when the answer is that this information is known to officials and not to workers and workers. Of course, they have elected their representatives, but they can rightly request data from these representatives. And when we talk about union leaders, we've had a similar story in the past, there are exceptions that shed a bad light on the operation of the union, but there's no way to generalise it and there's no way to make general assessments. Mag. Grims, once again in an understanding, I was talking about IAPES and everyone's right to obtain data, and I was talking about the rights of members and union members to obtain data.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u27	Mr Miran Györek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Trade unions are also legal persons and, as such, are subject to the provisions of the Accounting Act. Among other things, we should definitely publish our annual reports. Such reports must be public, since the law of the business book makes public documents. IAPES, as an authorised data processing and publishing organisation, is also obliged to submit such annual reports to the public and thus ensure that trade unions are made public. Last but not least, why shouldn't the union property and their business be public? Especially if we think of the fact that their assets are also fed directly from the pockets of workers. It is logical that if workers pay their money in a cash union, they also have the right to look into the financial situation and business of their union. However, I would not agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's warning that APES would need additional budget resources from the title, say, under the term "increased scope of work and tasks" or how to say it and "for costs or preparation of appropriate applications". Please, what additional special apps only?Oh, my God! The JIPES owns already well-established and manufactured applications that are and are still cost-effectively paid by all legal persons: S.p., craftsmen, etc. We are also interested in the Slovenian National Party, among other things, in what property is the ICPES, which exhausts already poor entrepreneurs every year, etc.? Even so, in the event of default, the YAPES blocks the bank account and thus the business of the entrepreneur. This is understood in the Slovenian Party as a great deal of parasitic activity and exhaustion of entrepreneurs. I propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the National Assembly present here that it also revise the operations of the ACPS and consider the eligibility of such expensive services or applications. If it is already a crisis, if we all feel it on our skin, let us feel this bad economic situation, let such and similar bureaucratic institutions also feel this crisis and they also contribute to the burden of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, etc. If I go back to the unions. The fact is that trade unions have lost their reputation, credibility, not only among their members and among the Slovenian people at all. A fine example recently emerged in the crisis situation in Mura. It was clear to all in Murska Sobota that, indirectly, the unions were also guilty or guilty of the break of the Mursophosian economic giant, for by their work the union did not listen to the workers who, by the way, paid him dearly out of their already miserable wages. On the contrary. Apparently, he preferred "leaning" with the owners and management of the company, but as you know, they brought the company to a standstill and threw more than 3,000 workers at the road. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we demand the transparency of trade unions and the public disclosure of their assets, including the salaries of their officials, and we certainly support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the representativeness of trade unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u29	The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I personally support this law, because it is right and, above all, fair and just that the public, including members and members of trade unions, will learn how trade unions operate. Especially for saying a lot of things. The fact that the profits from the operation are large, that the salaries of the officials exceed the salaries of the President of the Government and so on. Above all, I do not object to anyone, nor to union officials. But it would be good for the unions to sweep up at their doorstep. It is only necessary to be aware that in the main part they are financed directly from the membership of workers and workers. And that this membership is also a burden on the salaries of workers and workers, which is not negligible in this crisis. I would expect the unions to publicly support this law. Moreover, I would expect the unions themselves to propose such or similar legislation because of their credibility and transparency. Above all, I am protesting the political instrumentalisation of trade unions, both on the left and on the right. I cannot help but avoid the feeling that political influence on many unions exists and is present. This was very obvious and proved in all its splendor in the case of Gorenje and Mura, when workers and workers also resisted, among other things, the union. So let's leave politics. I would expect this law to be supported, because it is not about any financial consequences, nor is it about the financial consequences of the budget. This is a matter of transparency of business and that is why we are certainly all in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u31	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u32	Respectable present. When I read the proposal to supplement the law on the representativeness of the union, I got the feeling that the proposaler was not aware of the purpose and purpose of the law on the representativeness of trade unions. It is necessary to return somewhat to history at the time of the birth of this law. The law was adopted 26. 2. 1993, one of the oldest laws in history that hasn't changed at all. A consensus was reached around him at the time. However, the drafting of this law dates back to the time of the first Demos' government, and I myself responded to the debate and, together with Frances Tomšić, we defended the principle of autonomy, independence. The discussions went in this direction so that the state must not interfere in any way with the organisation, operation and autonomy of the union. There was even talk of not even adopting a law to be just a rule on the preservation of statutes. And even today, if we look at this law, it determines how to acquire the characteristics of a legal person and the characteristics of representativeness, nothing else, and how to submit a statute. Everything is actually adapted to the autonomy of union organisation. That's what's left of it all these years. Today, however, we are having a dangerous impact on the revision of this very important law, which guarantees the independence of union organisation. Hints about political ties and transmissions. I'm sure the transmissions have always been and will be. However, those who speak out loud must also be critical and say that all trade unions are involved in certain political connections, especially with new, emerging trade unions. In fact, it was no secret that we helped establish emerging unions in the new political parties at the time; there were a number of personal unions, connections. Transmissions are, I would say, much more transparent in the so-called right unions than in the union, which is most frequently mentioned today, I am sure of that. This was the development and creation of new unions. Today, it has been repeatedly said that there are other ways of controlling and controlling trade unions. In the first place, it is the interest of membership itself, including public interest, but supervision has the right to exercise the right of members and not non-member unions and to do so by the competent authorities within the union. The law therefore departs from the basic guidelines and purposes of the law itself on the representativeness of trade unions, which means a very dangerous audit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u33	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. So today we are considering the law that we have put in the procedure of Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because of one essential issue, even in the light of the situation we are currently in. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to see the union revenues, their business and the union revenues publicly known. But something else is extremely interesting. Even now that I have listened here in the Chamber to the debates of some Members by the coalition, both coalition Members and the Government insist that this information is already publicly available today, that it is known and that it does not really know why it should be enforced. I'll ask you a different question. If what you claim to be so public, so transparent and that everyone today can look at what he has to pay, say, Mr. Semolič and so on, then why are you so afraid and simply not legalized by this law? That's a simple question. But that's not what I'm saying. It was also clear in the media that both the Agency for Public Transport and the Information Commissioners say that trade unions do not publish their annual reports on websites, although they would be obliged to do so, it is said that unions would be obliged to do so and do not do so. And more! One of my colleagues said before, the information officer also claims that we cannot access the data on a legal basis unless you are either a member of the union or if you do not ask a member who is in the union to give you this opportunity to look into the situation. So what you say in the coalition and in the government is absolutely not true, but if it is true, then I see no reason why we should not do so as we have suggested in the Slovenian Democratic Party. So we just want public access to the data and publication. Today, this would be more than justified in these times, mainly because of hints about the high salaries of trade unions or trade unions, those leaders who have been in their positions for some 20 years, and also because of the lack of confidence in union leadership. We see what has been going on in Slovenia lately, all known events from Gorenje, all known events from Mura, all of us are clearly aware of how serious the situation is in Slovenian society, which is no longer only connected to the economy, but mainly to the severe distress of individuals who have been in this situation, which is without a way out for them at this time. And, of course, they are also entitled to protect them by those who run unions, to protect them, to protect their working rights and thus to protect the decent life they deserve. I believe that the leading trade unionists should also seriously consider their work, as I think they have actually received a total lack of confidence from the workers. During this period, workers recognized the duality of union leaders who were extremely loud during the economic crisis some four years ago, but now that they should be clearly defined in support of workers, they are mostly on the side of capital! Not to say that these unionists are also politically contaminated - of course it is known which way, although Mr Kontič had earlier said who is contaminated by the right and in the unions we can see that Mr Dusan Semolič, who for 20 years, if I am not mistaken, has led this main union. If I am not mistaken, he was a member of the Presidency of the Social Democrats. Very interesting. Here are some actions that should certainly be considered, mainly because of the great mistrust that the unions and the leading unionists received. For this reason, I also appeal to support this law, so that these things are substantially more transparent. In view of the fact that the Information Commissioners such as IAPES also find that these data are not available and cannot be seen, we propose to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u35	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, with fellow Members and Members of Parliament. She has me to ask Pirandello the question: What is the truth? Let's see what is written in the bill that deals with a single issue, which even the proponents say they are trying to enter into a law that defines the representativeness of trade unions and this is its fundamental purpose, to introduce a request for public disclosure of data, which they themselves speak of as an exception to the publication of public information on the property and business of trade unions that are legal entities of private law. So they themselves find that this is a unique exceptional arrangement, for which we who do not support this law say that there is absolutely no solid basis in this, because if anyone wants to get the data, he can pay a minimum fee and get the data. Of course, this is related to hints, speculations about the unjustifiable enrichment of officials at the expense of workers and other irregularities. Now these are hints and speculations that are supposed to be incorporated into the law as a drug. I object to such conduct on my own. And for the first time today, I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do. What I'm saying is it's not hinting, it's not speculation, it's a document, it's a photograph where you see two important union officials with far the highest income. These are actually the only ones with enormous heights. [[...]] [[Here you are, Mr. Friend, your railway union is here, Mr. Berdais and Mr. Pavlic.]] and it is not now a matter of contamination, as has been said, or non-contamination, but it is a clear fact that Mr Albert Pavlič, at the 2006 local elections, ran on the list of SDS and was elected to the Municipal Council in the Municipality of Šentjernej and that Mr Silva Berdais was a candidate for a councillor on the list of SDS in the municipality of Ivančna Gorica, also at the 2006 local elections. [[...]] Mr Albert Pavlič was even an SDS candidate for a member in the sixth constituency in the second constituency. So much if you keep implying and if it was possible to read in some media that it was political transmissions, that the unions were political transmissions. The thing about each individual is whether he discovers membership in the union or not. The information officer said that there was no legal basis for the disclosure of the number of members of the individual union. Until I became a political official, I was a member of that representative union I trusted. And that's what this is about: there has to be trust between a member and a union. If a member, if he shows that he is not confident, has the opportunity to request and obtain information, this has already been said several times, so that we would not now be confusing stories about how with some very good intention to build confidence in the unions you propose disclosure of the data that are either delivered to the AJPES or otherwise and can be obtained upon request. However, interestingly, the situation has changed, given that there has never been confidence in trade unions, including other private legal persons, nor in NGOs, nor in society, from the positions in the previous term. There was even talk about NGOs that they were anti-government organizations, not NGOs. And all of a sudden, you're worried about social dialogue. I'm glad the union trust has been strengthened. However, I have an opinion on the spontaneity of union distrust, as it is also possible for those who have been the primary promoters of union distrust to recognize the political officials of a party. What I would like to mention in relation to the law - in addition to all that has already been said - is that I am actually surprised that the law has been ratified and that the legislative procedure has been initiated in relation to it. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, any proposal for a law should also have a display of regulation in other legal systems and an adaptation to the regulation of European Union law. To say that trade unions are not part of a network of European trade unions, that they do not operate in accordance with the Convention on Trade Union Movement, that they are not subject to the Convention of the International Labour Organisation or ILO, and that they are also quoted as a foreign shortcut, but that is transposition. But what I find very interesting and significant for the National Assembly, for one European Union country alone, can be found to have a similar solution, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party - Estonia Group. You've been referring to this country a lot lately. No other country has such arrangements. If you ask me, I wouldn't want to compare myself to Estonia in any way. I cannot support the law, but I would say that it would be good if we were actually dealing with the situation in our country in these times and also what we did to discuss the real problems in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u37	Mr. Friend, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u38	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u39	No, I don't think I can give you a word for the replica in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u40	I've been mentioned and in business [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u41	You have been mentioned, but not regarding your previous debate. But you'll be up in no time. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. How can we synthesize what is happening today? If it were a movie, it'd be called "SDS Returns Strike." He's taking the hit back to the union this time. In fact, the cultural struggle that was staged yesterday with regard to the resolution on totalitarianism, where it is not in the interest of the opposition to come to an end and clear up certain salaries, is being staged, but the aim is to create some extraordinary conditions, this time at the expense of unionism. So, at the expense of an important social partner that disturbs a lot of people; not only in Slovenia, it disturbs Europe. The whole right-hand side sees an opportunity to get rid of the responsible unions, to blacken them, to disqualify them and finally get rid of them. But what is interesting is what was said today and what was said two weeks ago by the leader of this party. Today may not be the case, my colleague Rozje called it lapsus, a mistake, but in presenting the SDS position, Mr Petan has deceived the public twice and said literally that the unions are a person of public law. Twice, in an official presentation! That means either you don't know the problems or you're deceiving the public. In his famous interview, Mr Janša defined trade unions as the laity of the current government, the current authorities. No one in Europe can afford such an attack today, perhaps just an extreme right - hander, perhaps in Estonia. Estonia has been mentioned several times, the only exception where trade unions are actually subject to the system proposed by SDS. But Estonia is the country that has also introduced a single tax rate that has triggered the highest percentage of unemployment. This is coming back to them today. And when I say "SDS is hitting back," it means he's getting revenge. He wants to get revenge and disable, black out, disqualify union leaders. Why? Remember, in the time of the Janša government, there was an idea, an idea, and also an attempt to reach a uniform tax rate. I don't know what would happen today if we had a single tax rate system, but the situation in the current crisis would be significantly worse. If that did not happen then it did not happen because the unions brought thousands and thousands of workers to the streets of Ljubljana and demanded that this crazy idea withdraw immediately. They succeeded, but the SDS and the leaders of this party, of course, are not forgetting and are now taking advantage of the opposition's favourable position in trying to achieve what they did not achieve at the time. They were not all successful for good luck. And so we ask ourselves what is really behind such a proposal that sounds like transparency: transparency, we find transparency. They forget that transparency already exists that the members of the union have access to all relevant information that is in the APES, while they continue to deceive and try to prove that we claim that this transparency is different, that we all have the right to this data. Nobody said that! For the Government has explained well and the Commissioner has explained that this right is enjoyed by voluntary members, members who join unions that pay membership fees and may request and receive all relevant information on this. Why does the SDS actually require only trade unions to make this exception? Why, I wonder, do they not require something similar from other persons in personal law who are still relevant in this society? One case. The RCC - The Roman Catholic Church and all the segments that form this huge system, which is still an important social factor and which has significantly more assets than the unions have, than we all have here together, than many tycoons have. But I would like to know if, with similar perseverance and principle tomorrow, you will demand the full transparency of all the salaries of the bishops, the cardinals, all the property, all the transactions that take place within this great and all-powerful framework. No, you'll never ask for that! I wonder if you'll make any similar demands. So return the blow differently. You're not convincing. Tycoons or managers who have a 100-fold salary over the average wage of an employee in their own company have become such under your rule with these salaries. And now, finally, we have to fix the things that came about during the previous term. Those huge differences! These huge differences, 1 to 100! And now you're taking revenge on those managers who, of course, don't like unions. Of course they don't like them. We'd like to get rid of them. As soon as possible! We know that. It is enough to read all the European press sponsored by the grand capital and we will see that this is the goal. And the goal is this discredit, which you're pursuing in a very awkward way, unconvincingly, unbelievably. What you're proposing today is interfering with the essence of union autonomy. And if, across Europe, a voluntary union based on voluntary membership, where workers pay and not the state, workers pay membership fees, of course, it is necessary to ensure that these workers and those union members have access to all relevant data. But not as you would have liked; you, who are the only ones who have proved that unionism is not your concern because you are for corporate society, because you see only lakaj in the union. You know, that statement by Mr. Janša was probably a strange lapsus, a Freudian lapsus. In fact, he said what the unions thought, because he's experienced them so much, he's created them so, your unions are like that. And this has been proven by those boards, with the support of your client and also by the membership and nomination of relevant representatives of your unions. It's not unionism, it's clientelism, it's political clientelism that you've always encouraged, designed, and now you can't understand that trade unions can be critical even to the left-centre government. And unfortunately for this government, they are, because this government is very worried about what's going to happen to the unions in the streets tomorrow. Yet we do not interfere with their right, their right to organise themselves independently, autonomously, and that they are critical and also vehemently critical of all governments. Unfortunately, you cannot understand this and will continue with this ideological, cultural struggle, where you are not interested in human rights, not in labour rights, nor in transparency, but only in profanity, to get rid of that union that could be in charge, as it is today, even tomorrow, when you might take over these governments again. It's a good time to get rid of the unions, but you can't do that, at least with our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u43	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's also been four years since you had a government in your hands, and with your majority of what the government had in mind, and what the government thought was right, you could do in those four years, what you wanted to do today. I just want someone to give me a fair answer, but not a perverted and false one, why you didn't do it in the last four years when you were in power and you had the opportunity to "put this law through". Why didn't you do it in the last four years? Did you need unions? Did you negotiate with them? What have you been doing all this time, just now that you're not in power, you realize that this transparency through law needs to be established? Even with less bile and less such and different words, we could arrange this and have peace and create transparency and today we would all know what is going on in unions. But no! As it is said, at the time, you "feeled them down" because you had to accept with them everything that Mr Virant had to "get over" with the unions. But so much about how the story changes when you're in the government, and when you're no longer in the government -- the diametric opposite -- today we would destroy everything, destroy everything, bury everything, just to get back to power. But my colleague here next to me, Magajna, today he set you up with a mirror where you find yourself and don't get scared, you're in front of that mirror. As has already been said, it is unheard of at all to talk in a democratic country about how unions would be put in such a position to oversee them and to put them in a position where they would depend on day-to-day politics. Do you imagine that any opposition from across the street would want to have unions in their domain and that someone would keep calling these unions to check and get them in a position where they would be completely devalued? It is my opinion that this is a very wrong step, that this is a step towards further spreading social peace in the country, creating conflicts, calling in all possible ways, calling even if you want, people on the street, because with this and this way you really want to bring down everything that at this moment, in such a difficult situation, is holding together. The worse the country, the better the better, but I'm sure you won't succeed, because I haven't personally been in any union, even for a long time because I didn't agree with some things. But I never had such a gallant discussion, and I wanted to influence what they would do. Because it is clear to everyone that unions, like everyone else, have their own supervisory board, have their own groups by activity, have their own confidants, and everyone knows how the union is. Everyone knows what is happening in the union - of course, all those who are members who pay membership fees to become members and can enjoy all the rights given them by the statute. Today we have also heard many words about Semolic, so your goal is clear. It is clear, to overthrow Semolič - if I understand correctly, so many times this name has appeared. I think Semolic's salary was in the media yesterday. But I would really like to know what my colleague was talking about before, how much money those working in the railway union have to pay to compare that we are easier to talk about. Dear colleagues, I believe that the union is run by the union that the unionists choose, if I may say so. They have the right to choose those who pay membership fees and sit in that union. If they like such a president - wherever they have him, in the railway union, in the Free Trade Unions or elsewhere, in Independence - they should have him, because they have chosen him and they obviously trust him. Do you imagine that now we, as the National Assembly, are going to start exposing unions and bringing in huge confusion, as well as influencing who is supposed to be sitting there?Oh, my God! We are wasting valuable time, but we have to lose it because the rules of procedure also allow time to be lost in the National Assembly. Today we are wasting valuable time to scare the unions and to tell the membership that something is very wrong in their union because they are talking about it in the National Assembly, and God knows what these people have to pay, and who knows what they are doing so that their members don't know. Now, of course, this is the easiest when the current situation and crisis are very large and people are very vulnerable. And the words spoken out of this house are not words spoken into the wind or words just like that. With what you have prepared, you have given a great journey to further bringing unrest into Slovenian work. There was also a speech that Mrs Musar said that certain data could not be obtained. But let the one who reads and displays various panes tell us what kind of information. You know, getting things out of context sometimes means you can cheat. And I think it's naked deception. I am sure that Mrs Musar is careful enough to set things right and to make statements to the public as is necessary, and that she has probably said something else in addition - whose data we cannot get. What information can be obtained from members whose data can be obtained by the Supervisory Board, whose data can be obtained by union confidants held by each institution, each undertaking and so on. I will never agree to this kind of debate and this kind of debate about unions, so I will oppose this law and, on the contrary, I will support all unions, whether they are turned against you or against anyone else. Because if employment ever needed unions, it needs them now that people are in crisis. And as a matter of fact, you have Mr. Semolic's salary in yesterday's paper, and look at it! And you'll see what his salary is. Therefore, I will support them, not only this time, but I will support them in order to keep the unions in that sense, the true meaning of the word to protect the weakest articles in the workplace. That's their job! We could do even more if we had more money, and you'd like to look at it, and I don't know what we've done, and we've created one huge mess, and we're happily jumping around and saying, "Well, finally! This is where we hit Pahor, and now he's still in the union, and we're going to the early elections." No, gentlemen! You will have to do much more so that we can talk like this! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that it is increasingly interesting to monitor the opposition's attempts, how to somehow channel problems or those essential problems in society into something that may be important at this point or should be important. I must say that I am a little concerned that, during the period of eight, nine, ten months, and even earlier, we are following the attitude of the opposition to the Court of Auditors, which is irrelevant to them, and the Court of Auditors is wrong, we are following the attitude towards the Constitutional Court, whose opinions are not accepted at all, we are following the attitude towards the anti-corruption commission, which is corrupt and I do not know what all of them are saying is that their conclusions are not appropriate and they are not good and they are obviously trade unions today. I don't know. It's behind all the arguments I've reviewed. I don't see why we would support this law today, except that the opposition wants to re-position unions as those who do not represent workers, as those who are on the side of the ruling elite and so on. And I agree with all those who have raised concerns in terms of why, at the time when it was an opportunity to make such a law in such a way that the union data will be known to the public, why at that time it was not so important why today. This is because the arguments do not hold because these data are publicly available, but the difference between published and publicly available. And today, we have heard a lot of arguments about how we can access this data, the union data, the data that is published or available on the ICPES, and how we can get this data from €8 to €10, depending on the complexity of this data. And if the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to disclose the data to the non-members of the largest union or other unions, I suggest that it "risk" these 8, 10 euros, pay the APES, get the data and publish it on its side. At that time, all people will be informed of what is happening in the union, what information is covered, and what is the essence of this information, which could cause any fear among people that something might not be right in the unions. It is my opinion that trade unions must work transparently, in particular on the principle of their role in workers and workers. At that point, when there was any lack of transparency, the unions would lose all confidence among the workers who, of course, support them and are their members. And I probably don't need to give you any more arguments that it's a voluntary organisation where people join the unions themselves, support them, and trade unions have been, and will also be advocates of workers in all negotiations, not just during the previous government, even in the time of this government. If you see, at a number of negotiations, I don't know how excited they are about the government's proposals. And saying that lacquers are ruling elites is just ridiculous. However, it is possible that the assumption that has been made here several times today, but that you may be avenged for the demonstrations carried out in the previous term, may be for the non-support expressed in the previous mandate. But listen, no political elite can get a union move on their side. That's not right. Since World War II, trade unions have played a very important role in representing workers and have achieved something. And today to have a debate in the National Assembly on what to do with trade unions, how to limit them, how to essentially disable the leaders of these unions, is quite funny and an attempt to degrade all those who have done something for labour rights. I will not repeat this, but today many people have already spoken about which countries have such an arrangement as you propose today. Only Estonia. Great Britain is possible, but only when the unions are the owners of some companies, let's say a pension pillar and so on. All other countries do not know the arrangements that you are today. And Mr Grimes has talked a lot about Dusan Semolic today. I don't know why this Dušan Semolič is so annoying to you, maybe because he was, because I don't know, a member of our party or because he was sitting in the presidency of the United Nations or before, I don't know. But it is obvious that Dusan Semolic is the one about whom much will be discussed today and who is a thorn in the Fifth Opposition. Perhaps because he had several arguments against the policies of the previous government in the past, and he has them today. Even today, it is not pleased to take all the measures, all the structural reforms that are forecasting or adopted. And for the public it is necessary to say clearly and loudly, much has been said about certain data, wages and so on. Let's say Dusan Semolic has 1,700 euros in net wages. That was published yesterday. Whether this is too much or too little for the largest union to assess the members and members of this union. Let them tell him, and let them organize themselves differently. However, it should also be said that the picture shown by Majda Potrate at the time, in which Mr Albert Pavlič and Silva Berdais, from the Congress of the Slovenian Democratic Party, are trade unions in the Slovenian Railways, which have produced huge losses in the past. No one from the then option, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party, has taken the side of the workers as you today want to face in public that you are great advocates of the workers. And you have to say the numbers. These two gentlemen, who were candidates on the lists of the Slovenian Democratic Party, have, Mr Albert Pavlič 6,637 euros in gross wages and Silva Berdais 5,390 euros in gross wages. Why doesn't either of you have a problem with these two amounts? Why no one bothers these two trade unions in the Slovenian Railways, where workers and workers are also on minimum wages, where the loss is great and where it is not known what the future of the company will be, how we will develop things further. No, it's none of your business. So, unions that are not on your side should be accused, they should be put aside, which will be unacceptable to the public, while trade unions, which are either your members or are candidates on your lists, should be left aside. If your intention were to be truly honest with the public, then, as has already been said many times today, we would also propose a public publication, for example, for the Employers' Association, the Roman Catholic Church and so on. No, you're focused on unions with one purpose. When unions began to lose confidence among people, in the public, when the Mura happened when Gorenje happened, and here we come up with another problem until the unions are paid by employers, they may not have as much an autonomous role as they could have. But when that debate began in public, you came by law to the National Assembly, saying, attack even trade unions, lower their value, and, in my opinion, try to get people on the streets, against trade unions, against the government, against everything, without arguments, what and how, just so that you can get some leverage of power. But listen, in the past, the results were clear. The four years of results are clear where Slovenia came from. The mistakes, and I will be just, not just from the past four years, even from the past, have accumulated to the point that they have all escalated and are no longer able to save and repair them individually. Today we need systemic changes, which we will certainly not accept with the support of the opposition, because you do not want this because you are talking about partnership because you are talking about joint development, but you simply do not want this. You had a lot of support in the previous term by the opposition back then, who wanted to support and support you on some things. You won't do it for two reasons. First of all, if there's any good ideas, you won't support them because they're not yours. And secondly, you don't want any positive point to be written to this ruling coalition, with one goal, and I've already said that, total destruction and reconstruction, however, the current government and somehow the desire for power. I hope that your intentions will be clearly seen in the public, and that the public will know not only that you are not proposing those important topics in the National Assembly that would somehow enable the development of Slovenia to continue. I am also willing to accept a good proposal, to vote for it, but unfortunately that was not the case. And secondly, that you will honestly tell how you want the development of this Slovenia. Don't just open up ideological topics like the resolution on totalitarianism, the fight against trade unions, various referendums, etc. Stay upright, be a political party and work for what you were elected to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I wouldn't go down to the level that was staged by the last speakers. In fact, today's theme is not all the hidden purposes of the opposition, all the smug, vicious attacks on the current government, the unions, the opposition's intention to destroy the union movement and so on. It's not a theme. The topic is the issue of public information on the property status of trade unions or what happens to membership fees that workers invest in trade unions. In fact, I believe that all unions have always been tempted to link themselves to politics or capital in one way or another. I'm thinking about union leadership and not union leadership as a whole movement. We know in history very tragic cases where union leadership, based on funds collected from membership, has actually turned into a mafia, sold social peace to capital, the country and so on, blackmailed for its own profits, especially before World War II and later in Western countries and so on. It was, and it's always a temptation. Given the ties and ties to politics, I don't think it's that dangerous. Also, the friendship of the highest unionists, the largest of our left-wing trade unions, is not necessarily bad. It's not necessarily bad. It is likely that a number of radical changes will be adopted in this mandate and right under the left government. Let's just say that it would be impossible to extend the working life to 65 years in the previous term. Or at the moment, like, the freezing of pensions or the limitation of wages and so on. What it takes, but it probably wouldn't be possible under the right government. What appears to be critical and critical relations between trade unions in the previous and current term or previous term was, I must say, a very normal situation in the previous term and only in the previous term. The unions were really critical of the government, and that's normal. That's right, like the media. The media must be critical to the current government and this was normal in the previous term. Good. But let's leave friendship, friendly relations with a certain political situation. This is not such a problem - a problem that has caused a lot of distrust of unions in recent times, and that is why we are investing in this law. The lack of confidence that has never been demonstrated since Slovenia's independence to such a drastic extent, namely the lack of confidence in the connection of leading trade unionists, not all of them, clearly not all, but if one defiles, one black drop stains an entire litre of water. It is precisely because of these connections that we want to take a step forward and restore trust or make it possible for the workers to be more confident with the unions, because we need unions. We need to. The Government needs them as interlocutors in maintaining and managing situations, in maintaining peace, in finding the best solutions for everyone. They are also needed by workers who cannot solve their problems on their own. Let me just say one case, very fresh. In a rather successful company in Slovenia, I will not say the name, but it has been kept for me, the Supervisory Board has replaced the previous President of the Management Board and his post, as head of the company, as a member of the Supervisory Board, so called the Supervisory Board, they have chosen their own member, who is also co-owner of the company. You're not gonna believe who this is. This is the Secretary of the Trade Union of the metal and electricity processing industry for the cell area, M. H., who controls and has already become the owner of the company, one of the main owners, by "hecking" his members to accept the artificially displayed low value of the shares, resold their share, which was then distributed among the workers and purchased by him. But he's still the union secretary. I don't know if it's right for this union. I don't know if that's right for the workers. I don't know if it's for the hygiene of the union movement in Slovenia. And the first step is what we propose in the law to process these funds, final accounts and the like, to be published and made available to all workers. I'm surprised by the opposition you make to this marriage. In fact, a union that has clean hands will support this law first. And he will say, no, we will be alone, even if the law is not adopted, we will be publishing our own financial situation where these memberships go. They'll do it themselves. And more importantly, the union that wants to create and restore and find the trust of workers will also publish the salaries of its highest officials, as well as equity shares in companies or assets. I think we'd expect that without setting it up in law. That is why, gentlemen, let us stay on the problem that has culminated, opened up in recent events, just this year, when our union system is being broken down on the basis of the lack of confidence in trade unions, which, I reiterate, is not based so much on friendship with politics, nor on friendly relations between Semolic and left policy. I have no objection to this friendship, after all, why a man should fight with his former friends if he wanted to be an official, but he can still do the right thing. This is because certain profiles in these unions are turning into mafias and exploiting their situation to become owners of those companies and turn into capital bearers, and clearly they will no longer genuinely represent the interests of workers. So, I want the law to be treated properly and let's stop what your intentions were, why you're doing it, how they're depressed, why you didn't do it in the previous years when you were in power. Of course not, there was no problem of trust in unions. Yes, then everything else is needed, the Roman Catholic Church and so on. Do not be so much against this proposal, which I also think the unions will not oppose, on the contrary, but they will even do what we want with this law, even if they do not, if the law is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear High Council! It's hard for the workers today. It's hard for the unions, too, because the expectations of membership are high. I sincerely wish that some of the unions that have spent the last eighteen years trying to improve their working situation would be stronger and better organised in these times of crisis to have strong support for membership in their efforts, to have more active membership and to have sufficient resources to employ even more professional staff who could negotiate equally with employers and also with the Government. For the unions appear to have been too weak to maintain or increase their labour rights for the last eighteen years, as they have in particular declined. Hence, today the minimum wage is such that it is no longer possible to survive with it. As a result, health care has become so heavily privatized that in recent years our health homes have been falling apart in front of our eyes and people are no longer receiving the necessary health care. So today, only 50% of the aid needed is social assistance. That is why so many employers today enjoy bullying employees, so we are in the European Summit after injuries at work, so today professional diseases are not even recorded, and capital can pollute the environment and harm the health of the population. Therefore, they can be entrepreneurs, some entrepreneurs, for years have been acquiring social property and employees are paying for their loans. Not a weaker union, which may be the subject of a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the representativeness of trade unions that we are dealing with today, Slovenia needs strong trade unions, strong advocates of workers' rights. It's a good thing the unions are advocates of employment. In recent years, trade unions have managed to resist at least the most radical neoliberal reforms that the government has tried to enforce under the influence of capital. Let us recall the single tax rate at which it was intended to be taken by the poorest in order to be given to the most wealthy. In part, capital succeeded when the previous government reduced tax rates for the most wealthy. Let us recall the proposals to cut hospital benefits, the insensitive proposals that sought to reduce social and health security for the most sick and the poor. The sickest tried to get out of the unemployed. Trade unions have successfully prevented this so far, and I hope that they will also successfully resist such further attempts. The unions were also successful in nearly 90% of the lawsuits against employers when they jumped in to help their members. With sentences and protests, trade unions have managed to preserve certain rights without which the current economic, social and health situation of the population would be even worse. According to the previous speakers, let me repeat what the law says. Trade unions are a legal person of private law who must comply with the Accounting Act and other laws with regard to the supervision of accounts and the public of the annual report. The annual reports of trade unions are now public, as the law allows everyone to issue a copy of the required data from the annual reports against the low reimbursement of actual costs. So what is today's union debate about? The employment side, this is capital, is undoubtedly trying to reduce the role of trade unions. Without strong unions, it's easier to exploit employees. However, the company is becoming more unstable as employers and the government would lose a competent partner to defend the interests of the most massive part of the population. However, the interest of the population and the Government, who want to have social peace and thus preserve democracy, is to have a competent representative of the work force as an interlocutor. I'm sure the work is mature enough to separate the grain from the weeds. I am sure that work will also be able to properly assess the purpose of the proposal that we are considering today. I do not believe that the law is suitable for further consideration. That's why I won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I won't support the law. When I first read his content and first looked at what unions as a person of private law have an obligation, including regarding the publication of their data, I said whether this was such a problem that the law should be prepared and amended. However, when I listened to today's debate, I found that, of course, the actual purpose of today's bill is not to solve the problem of publishing basic data, because these are accessible, are not made public, but are accessible if anyone wants it, in the same way as for all other civil-law persons and there is no particular reason that they should be published separately, I have today found out what is, or where, in fact, the danger of your actual purpose is. Ladies and gentlemen, you know right now that Slovenia is in a serious crisis. You know well that in addition to short-term measures, which are often more difficult for low-income people every day, for employees who are connected, many in trade unions as well as for pensioners who do not have a union, they have their own pension organisation that will not be easy to look for for for all these solutions. It will be even less easy to find long-term solutions for systemic changes in pension insurance, health care, social transfers and more. And in order to be able to design these solutions patiently, reasonably, in cooperation, we need strong all the institutions of society that can help. These are also trade unions, which are representatives of the labour sector, which are members of the Economic and Social Council, which, at national level, participate in the formulation of the fundamental decisions decided by the Economic and Social Council, which the Government proposes through social partnership to decide on the National Assembly. And the interest to weaken this government is also an interest to weaken those with whom the only ones that can normally talk about problems are trade unions. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is your goal. This is clearly evident from some debates today because otherwise the fundamental problem of the debate would not be whether a president of a union organisation has a higher or lower salary, as is its political history. These are so low debates that it is difficult for a person to listen to them. Someone can be the president of the union. Someone can't be. The main problem is his history and his salary, not his work. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, will also have to learn slowly that the same rights must be counted on, economic and social as well as political, given the laws and the Constitution in force, not what you think about who you think of in the past. Because then you will have to start thinking about people of your own kind and that they may have participated in a group that you do not like today. And then you will have to understand that the fundamental goal of all of us is to form relationships in which each of us will play his own role according to the function he has. And they're unions. Trade unions are organized on four levels and the easiest thing to do today is to convince workers that trade unions have not done enough. Nor would the legislation be better, nor would it be more successful to address the concrete problems of wages in industry and enterprise agreements or contracts, nor should trade unions provide sufficient social assistance to those in difficulty. It's really no problem to convince people today. And if you think that you have achieved a lot by introducing this law and trying to convince people, I must say that you have taken a small step, a light step, a low step, but you have done damage to Slovenia and Slovenia's work. Therefore, understand that there is no basis for supporting your marriage, nor in the situation at home, nor in the fact that the data would not be public, nor in the international comparisons to which you would like to refer, is there nothing and no basis. Let me also say, yes, I remember that your attitude towards various civil society organisations and civil society organisations is different. And you resent me for mentioning the Roman Catholic Church. Two years ago, I asked Minister Sturm if he could tell me how much Slovenian Roman Catholic Church received at the expense of denationalisation of returned property. His first answer was that he can't do it and can't because it's a civil society organisation. Later, the church itself allowed some information to be published and we could, at least in part, on the basis of trust, believe that this is true what they said and get this information. That was your attitude or the attitude of your minister towards the civil society organization. It would be right that this is your attitude today when it comes to trade unions. We believe that our common interest is to strengthen all institutions, because otherwise workers, including trade unions, will not know who to turn to. Because, let's face it, in the last 20 years, unions are the only ones closest to workers even when they're bad, because they're the only ones, and I think they're all connected to the labor movement, and they're the only ones who've advocated the interests of workers and others who know how to organize. If workers no longer see them as their agents, they will have only one option, or they will directly link to politics, which they will not succeed because this policy has never been particularly friendly to them, or that they will go to the streets. And I'm afraid that Comrade Levanic said right when he said that it might be one of your hidden goals, to hesitate, because you have already said that, Mr Petan, it was not on your part personally, but by your people it was said, because the workers have no other opportunity than to go on the road, which could otherwise be counted also as possible, through a side channel, a call: Come on but do it. I will not support the law, and I must say that I also do not understand what its real purpose is, except for the desire to show the union as unfit to represent employment, which is not good at a time when extremely difficult current and long-term tasks will have to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Petan, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm replicating Mr. Potsch. I don't know why he found me to read something that I didn't say. If anyone else has said anything, contact him. Leave my name alone in this case. But as far as you know who we want to discredit and what we think, what do you think we have insinuations and so on? I don't know if you've x-rayed us or if you have any listening devices to listen to us, what we're talking about, and that you know what we're thinking, what we're thinking, what we're thinking, what's evil about. As for Mr Potč, opinions on the union - do not tell us that we want to lower our reputation or that we want to raise it; but, you are talking about reduction; who thinks about the union, look at the latest cases that have been in Gorenje and Mura. I wish we didn't think I liked it. Far from it. What do you think of me - you have the right, but don't make it public to me because you don't X-ray my head. Each one creates his own reputation, to a great extent alone. And that's why we don't want to tell us that we want to undermine someone's reputation. This law, however, refers to the transparency of balance sheets and finances. About that. And you probably can't tell us that if we're up for it. As with the transparency of finances and the public of the work, for example, Members, it is probably someone else. I don't know, public services, for the salaries of managers, that they're public, so the balance sheets of someone else can be public. That's what this is about. If we are in the same country, the same legislation applies and we have the same criteria, the same watts, the same meters, then the public also applies to trade unions. Just don't tell us we got something mean in the back. We don't mind if the public works for others, but let it be for everyone. And then in this case, that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. True, the truth hurts. Therefore, it was also such a critical response to the presentation of the position of the leader of the Group of Social Democrats, Comrade Bojan Kontic. At least that's how I detect some of the responses. It is true, though, that empathy, how to be more human or more interesting, was now even discerned by the debate of some, when they somehow knew exactly what someone was thinking and so forth. Of course, there is today's debate, and it is likely today that there will be another debate on the following points, and probably also tomorrow, one of those showing a media and populist display of the experiment. She also made it clear that her colleague, Dr. Andrej Črnak Megličev, also made a reasoned statement in four points. And let me take away her last sentence: it's just a planned collapse of the unions. Well, maybe there's an interest in that direction. I also see in this a renewed attempt at media discrediting this government and all those who are trying to help as many citizens as possible and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially those who are really thinking today, not only are thinking, but they are trying to survive their families, to survive on their own. Workers employed in companies that are heavily involved in trade unions are those who decide who will be trusted in the union, who will lead them and who will manage them and how to manage the funds collected from memberships and so on. Therefore, I am very surprised by today's mistrust, including by the proposal for a law supplementing the Unions' Law on representativeness. A good year ago, with a purely reasoned event, I can say that this was not the case. Every year in the last April, Slovenian trade unions or representatives of the Dolenjska and White Krajina branch have a traditional drawing on the Smuk nad Semič. Members and members, workers and workers of the region, residents of the region, Dolenjska and White Krajina come to visit. Last April was a very interesting and varied year. I have been walking alone for many years, and it was very interesting to me last year when we were also present, and there were some representatives who were not present this year, those who were candidates of various parties, some also not in the National Assembly, but last year we were all gathered there, all for workers, all for trade unions. Someone mentioned before, I didn't get the feeling it was pure accounts and good friends, sorry, really not. This year, though, this came to my attention because these people were not in favor of the unions. There weren't any. It seems that opinions and circumstances have changed. Therefore, people who work for small money, who are trying and who want to contribute to having as many children as possible in Slovenia, as large families, and who want to show some tolerance, do not always have support. And they still feel it from the unions. And with today's debate, in some ways, some want to rekindle the unrest between people, the unrest between workers. In all this expression of unrest, we go back again, back to the unions, I don't know, those, those, whether it's the left option, the right option, and again the restlessness of Mura - Gorenje. I don't know, there's no mention of Betty, who's very close to a completely different option, proprietaryly purely elsewhere, but the problem is for White Krajina, as one of the examples, because she goes into another story that others don't like to mention. Because then, somehow, like my colleague Magajne said, we should look in the mirror. Thank you, I will not really support this proposal alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues! Today, this country is governed by Social Democracy, and if the logic is what we should follow, then workers really shouldn't need trade unions. Not today. The country led by the Social Democratic Party - the same oath of equality - should today be an example to all other countries experiencing the deep economic crisis. And a worker in this country should receive at least so much payment for the work done that he could normally live to pay that basket of living expenses, his bills and be a model citizen. What's going on now? If we had argued with the previous government of Janez Janša and it was right that we were critical of them, that the Prime Minister of the Government himself, at the time, had instructed Mr Janša to go to the dumpster for bread. It was enough at the time to be picked up from dumpsters. He's not even in the dumpster today. Then we must also say something about this government, what it is doing for work today. Who has the advantage of paying? I am pleased that Mr Svetlik is here today, Minister. When the company goes bankrupt, the unions are usually quiet because then the union membership, which remains in the account, is also distributed after the funeral. And who gets the payment of open claims? Not all of them, except workers. The worker is the last in line to get paid for his work. As already stated, if you have the right to work and the opportunity to work, you do not have the right to a fair payment, and this is wrong in this country that workers do not get enough to live a normal life. We can play with this patience for a while, but I assure you that these tolerances in work are no longer. And when the time comes for the workers to seek justice on the street because of despair, I will also be with them. I like to be present at all such demonstrations because I know the workers are right. As far as the tycoons were concerned, some of them were mentioned, as the unions also support the tycoon. Today, these people are still in charge of dismantling the Slovenian economy, and nothing has happened to them. They're disassemblying this machine that's carrying money into the state budget, all the way forward, openly. They don't even hide their names or their names, and the state doesn't chase them. Even so, this patience in the workers will be gone. The time will come when the workers, regardless of which leader is on their side, the unionist, whether black or red, will go on the road and seek justice there. And you're wrong, respected by Social Democracy, if you think that the government can, by tolerating the intransparency of trade in the union sector, buy unions so that the leaders can convince the workers that they will be silent. That patience is gone. About the pigs that the unionists did, let me tell you some of these shit. The general voyage, which we saved with $75 million, with a special law adopted in the National Assembly and due to unpaid wages to seafarers, gave this company an authority to defend the labour interests, in the hands of the president of the union, Mr Zevnik, was sold under the table to foreigners, this company of Commissioners. Today, a foreigner took over the biggest boater for no euro, he bought it. Of course, Mr Bajuk has just discussed in the office how they will do it, perhaps not for free. And today this Mr. Zevnik is very, very difficult in the current account. There is no particular need to guess what political options come from. And when we talk about the Red Cross, you know, you didn't have a holy, respected colleagues from social democracy, you have a legal judgment, you stole it there, too. But if we are talking about railways, because I am a railway driver myself, I must point out the following: the dismantling of railway unions has been taking place since this power came to the surface. I am not Mr Pavlič's lawyer, but I must say that Mr Pavlič is a member of the administration and receives a salary following a decision by the Government, is a working director and does not manipulate data that is not real. And the railroaders are not in the negative either, because they would do very well to do their own bad work. In fact, the government did not respect the conclusions it had adopted. For two and a half years, we have a guarantee law to rent loans for a thorough rehabilitation of the rail infrastructure system, and we have not drawn a single euro from this title. From month to month, it's either agony or it's pay, and our cargo is leaking because we're still very servants to foreigners who come as foreign operators on our tracks. If you ask the railroaders who are doing well, they will tell you that they don't care what union they have and that this union that they have is well represented. But it is true that if you say the words that I will now allow myself to say to myself on the mountain, "fascist or communist, communist or fascist" that it is an echo: "The same-same". This government, of course, advocates left-centre trade unions, which are supposed to support this government and the former is right-centred. There is no difference, ladies and gentlemen. If, of course, you want to re-infuse the Pelinkovec into the cup of work, so that you won't even let the workers see what their chosen professional mass or professional fund is like, so that you won't even let them do that, of course, then you support the lumpari, which also happens within the union leadership. I told you a case of general navigation earlier. Did any of the criminals ask how and where Mr. Zevnik's assets came from? No one will, either, because almost every political February was involved and a convict to this bag. Mrs. Potrata, always voluntary, when you say pictures, be at least right enough to tell who you see in the picture and where you get this salary. Once again, Mr Pavlic receives a salary following a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is a member of the management, a working director. Albert Pavlich, this is it. Mr. Silva Berdais is also tied to a salary tied to the CEO's salary. And I asked you in this National Assembly, a distinguished representative of a government party, including you directly, indirectly if you want, why does the Government or Mr Pahor allow directors, especially state-owned companies, to have more wages than he does. I'll tell you why. Because you're making yourself beautiful here, you're paying for coffee, and you're asking these directors to fill in your client bills. This is happening, of course, through Elektro and through, I'll say, all state-owned companies. I won't say I won't be charged again. The fact is, you don't want to make order in this area and even so-called tycoons don't want to grab on to, I don't know what, I won't be vulgar. Because if we wanted to, we'd do it. Mr. Bavčar walks around like nothing's happened. He's still laughing at us. First of all, he gave even Slovenia that we have problems with Croatia today and we prove that the Savudrija wave is indeed the Bay of Piran, and now we are dealing with it when it destroyed half the economy. There's no more drugs on the coast, no more Kolinska. It's all been destroyed by him. He's free and he'll probably be free. You sold the general voyage so that one of the ministers could get two million euros. He took them home in the bag. And of course, these companies are still huge and you need trade unions here, so you're basically defending them. Each for his own political option.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Potrate called in the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President. Now I'm going to replicate, and then I'm going to have a procedural proposal. Mr Friend, I know that the recent decision of the Constitutional Court encourages you to insult the general public in the National Assembly. As a Social Democrat, you have added me to the ranks of those who steal. I declare that there is no evidence or cause for anyone to attribute to me that I stole something from anyone in my life. You spoke ill of civil-social movements, without evidence. And I ask you, is it true that you are one of the few workers who has a vessel? So much for how you list. And also about Mr. Brdais and Mr. Pavlic. I remember listening to them on television as a distinguished union representative and my reaction to the findings of the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions, who is supposed to be a member of the Presidency, and from what I am, I am already quite a few mandates, a member of the Presidency, is not a member of the Presidency, Mr Semilič. Mr Brdais and Mr Pavlič have also reached these positions that they have reached through their trade union work. That was a replica. Now, if you'll excuse me, it's still procedural. Mr. Vice President, I have seen you blink when you're listening to the debate. It would have to do with the fact that you probably have a hard time putting up with words like that. But I would expect you to remind a speaker when he is insulted and insulted by this abusive speech, and by the reputation of the National Assembly. I expect you to do so procedurally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs Potráta, it would be difficult for me to change the method of leadership in the previous work when I listened to strong insults from one thing and the other, as to what was the reason why the drafter of this law has behind him, how he has subdued his intentions and the like, but no one has stopped the debate on such insults. This is probably part of freedom of speech. Mr. Friend, there are no replicas on the replica. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u62	Dear Vice President. I must warn you that it is lawful for Mrs Tret to repeat the truth over and over again, I will not say that she is lying. If she doesn't like something, don't let it fool all the Slovenian public. First of all, I don't have any boats. Mrs. Potrata, I don't have any vessels. Second, Mr. Pavlič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u63	Mr. Friend, a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u64	Yeah, I'll make a suggestion. Mr Pavlic is a member of the board, but Mr Silva Brdais is the president of the Council of Workers. These are two different functions that have absolutely nothing to do with unionism. And Mrs. Potts lied again. Please, I didn't hurt anyone, not even her. It is true, though, that there are legal convictions in their ranks for people who have also stolen from the Red Cross. That's true. Actually, it is. And Mr Zevnik belongs to your political option.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u65	Mr. Friend, this is a controversy. You've abused the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u66	I'd like you to warn me not to waste your lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u67	Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Given that you are convinced in the coalition that all data relating to the assets of the trade union centres are now public, I wonder why you would then object to the enforcement of this law. It's not really what you're saying that is now publicly available and that it's accessible to everyone. You know, it has to be distinguished, one is publicly available information, i.e. for one interested person who can look into this data. However, the fact is that this information cannot be published publicly. And this is the intention of lawmakers to let people read in the paper what are the balance sheets of these and those union centers. You know, you've actually given us reasons to file. Someone said it was a conspiracy by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and another said it was to cause damage to the work force, etc. You know, after all that has been said here today by the state of the coalition, I would say that; the reasons for rejecting this law are actually from the veins and thus defend the work of certain union centers. I wonder if it's for any purpose or not? I just believe you don't. However, I think it is right to recall once again what the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing in this law? It's only one article, one article that's crucial. Okay, there's two, one's just editorial. But it's about making the union's annual report public. And it goes on to write; the organisation responsible for processing and publishing data - so we are talking about the APES - has to make public the annual reports of trade unions: "The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services publishes the annual reports of trade unions already in 2008." And that's all that changes, just that, nothing else. So it's actually two sentences, and we're witnessing these kind of issues now. But there's something else we're witnessing. We are witnessing the general dissatisfaction of the Slovenian worker. That's what we're talking about. Every day we can monitor in public information media, especially on television, what is the degree of trust of workers and workers in trade unions. And don't say that we've come up with some idea now, that we're going to cause damage to the work force, or that we're preparing a conspiracy. Not at all. In fact, the initiative to introduce this law came from workers and workers. We've all heard this, we've all heard this dissatisfaction that we've witnessed in recent weeks. Of course it is on the other hand, and you can say that it is cynicism, but it is not, it is true - in fact, we can help the union, unions, that they know their faces before the public. The fact is, there has been general mistrust, and we, the National Assembly, can give trade unions the opportunity to manifest themselves in the right light and publish the data. And if everything's okay, then I don't see any problem. And as a colleague, Mr Cuckati, earlier said, this is probably in the interest of trade unions. After this debate today, they will probably publish this information themselves, because that is what is most important. The inactivity of trade unions has also been reported in the media. We could all read this, this is not what the Slovenian Democratic Party invented, you can't attribute it to us. Over the past year, 50,000 new unemployed have come. This is a fact, not invented by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're all witnesses to that. You know, even what was said about enriching union leadership at the expense of memberships, paying wages higher than the Prime Minister's, which I think is unacceptable, is almost impossible for a person to believe, but this is happening. And there is no public record of these matters. The media can't publish this. If the media publish this matter, then it can happen that this trust will fall back to the lowest point. But if all is well, as the unionists assure, then there is no reason not to publish this matter. But I'm afraid there's something hidden under this confidentiality. Perhaps just a word, two about Mr Pavlic and Mr Berdajs; I do not want to be their lawyer, but Mr Friend has made it clear earlier that these are not unionists at all. So talking here, mixing apples and pears, is actually unacceptable. I suggest that we support this law, with respect for our fellow Members, and thus give the unions the opportunity to wash their faces before the public and say, "Here are the details. It's all O. K." and we move on, but in a kind of agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. When I listen to this debate, I am pleased to see you all taking on the important role of trade unions in the future. Without them, it will be difficult to have a development and social dialogue and they are as strong as possible, and we are more interested in them. I will not ask myself about honesty, purpose and so on, individual debates, but I think that the basic point is that if we take anything out of this debate, these unions must maintain their role. However, I would like to give some of the information that is needed from this debate, which Mr Hrvat has already indicated, namely that there is indeed a need to distinguish precisely between public access to data and public disclosure. As far as public access is concerned, it is notable that any citizen can access the data that the APES has. These data are regulated according to the applicable accounting standards and can be obtained in this form by anyone. It is true, however, that every citizen cannot access data about every citizen through this data. And that's probably what works with public access to data. Data on every citizen, who is most likely to be most interested in this debate, can be obtained if it is a public official, for whom any public institution must provide the information at its disposal. And that's the core of the whole story. However, when it comes to public publication, it is a matter of principle that private law should be subject to greater control and control of the country, since it is the principle basis for civil society organisations, where they belong, to trade unions and to maintain this autonomy. We would have taken an unacceptable step here if we were to amend the legislation in force in this direction. And certainly all persons, i.e. all civil society organisations, including trade unions, can be well organised within themselves and should be entrusted with membership, its powers and its controls, so that these organisations can actually manage themselves internally without being managed by the legislator or the state. That's what's important. For if we take one step in the case of one organisation, as has already been said by other debaters, then we must take these steps also in the case of others. This means that the country would like to increase its control of civil society. Here is a warning to be taken, extremely serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Previously, there was some dilemma, whether someone insulted someone or not, it was also said, "Social Democrats were stealing from the Red Cross." Now, if this isn't an insult, I don't know what standards some in this Chamber have for insults. How far can we go with this? Also, "Social Democrats Stolen". No one will accuse me of stealing in this hall, and this is where the story ends. However, I would like to say that, as far as this point we are discussing is concerned, I see that the concentration in this Chamber is failing and that there is no longer much interest in it. My response to the bill is "fuck iron as long as it's hot." Why? It was mentioned earlier: it happened to Mura, it happened to Gorenje. Untrust in union leaders has been expressed, and let us strengthen this distrust in this House. That's how I understand the message. So let's put them here, in this hall, by the way, "put them on the cross." I'm not doing this. It was said that we should help the unions to "wash themselves in front of the public" and that the Slovenian Democratic parties here have become advocates of democracy, advocate of the truth of the public and transparency. It was not 14 days ago or a little longer when the Slovenian Democratic Party argued that we should help the judges to "be able to face the public". What if, before the public, we first "washed our faces" rather than offer ourselves, to whom we will help with his public, transparency and, above all, greater respect. If you think that politics will help trade unions to have a greater reputation, as the billmakers have said today, then I must tell you that you will "break your teeth" on this, because this will be difficult. If you ask me, we know what the problem is! The problem is union leaders and the problem is their salaries. That's what you said, clear, public, loud. If you ask me, I have no problem with that. If the unions decide to publish this information themselves, I will say hello because I do not see any bad things in this. However, politics will require trade unions to publish what they have to say, i.e. they pay union leaders, and here I think we are going very far. As it is said, the unions are the ones who will have to take care of their own reputation. Whether they're doing it or not, the unions know it for themselves. This was shown to them, not least by the public, but also by specific employees in specific companies. They know well what their reputation is. And they are the ones who, in my opinion, should also take some step forward in raising their reputation. But if politics makes them do this, I don't think we're going to get too far. It has been said that we are here to defend, quote, the requiem of social dialogue. That's such a nice word! I don't know where you heard that and where you got it. Because on this side, it has been repeatedly said quite the opposite that we are advocating for strong unions and for strong social dialogue. That is what we stand for, in case it was not understood that there would be any misunderstandings about it. Speaking of public and transparency, therefore, the annual report is expected to be made public. Perhaps there would be another thing to write, 'on the SDS website', because it has recently become a symbol, a standard of publicity and transparency. Please! Let's think about what you're saying. And when you talk about how you care about the reputation of Slovenian unions, I will quote. Janša: "The Union of Free Trade Unions is an easy haven for the current ruling policy." And the famous ones about not going out in bad weather, and when it snowed it was cold, rather gathering up some other summer time, it would be better for them. So don't you talk about how you're working for the reputation of Slovenian unions, because as long as such statements come from your party that they're trade unions, not all, but precisely certain unions of the current ruling policy, then I don't believe in your well-intentionedness to worry about the reputation and transparency of trade unions. And, as we say, the unions, in my opinion, should also take some step forward. Maybe you could use some air, some new face. I'm very honest with you. But what we are doing in this House today will not help what you say. You spoke of the general dissatisfaction of Slovenian workers. Yes, it is, but because of this law, because of your marriage, there will be no higher wages and confidence in Slovenian unions will be no greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u74	The unions are responsible to their members, these members pay membership fees and thus finance them. I suggest that we allow Slovenian workers and workers the opportunity to decide with their confidence what union they trust or not. This should remain the judgment of the workers. I don't like it either, say, the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I don't invite the SDS to replace it because it's none of my business. What is the real purpose of today’s debate? I think that the proponents know very well that we will not accept this law, that today we will find that it is not suitable for further consideration, because it is essentially pointless because it wants a public publication of something that is already made public today, but something else - and this is happening all day long: bile, angry, ideological debate on the view of trade unions, about the view of trade unions, which, of course, should serve what is firmly as a stone in the mosaic fits into the great plan of the great strategic one. You know who I mean! This is to show the interconnection of the current power with the union movement as just one of those alarming indicators leading to the change of power. This is only part of the scenario aimed at destabilizing the government, destabilizing the country, creating a state of emergency, and finally making it a major goal, restoring SDS and Janez Janša to power, because you still believe that you have been wronged. No, it wasn't your fault, it was the democratic judgment of the people. Of course, this may happen to us, too, and I am sure that until then, without your help and despite your constant nagging of the Slovenian public, we will prove that we know where we are going, that we are dealing with the right questions and that we will also give the right and effective answers to these questions, I believe in this heart. We need to cut across today's acute situation, which we find at every step of the way, despite a very difficult backpack, which is particularly difficult, even because of the difficult legacy of your government. Social Democrats, however, have one link with trade unions: we share a common historical starting point that draws on a strong tradition of Slovenian and international labour movement. On May 1st, I still consider it the greatest holiday. Because in it I see one call for us to organise ourselves together so that people in this country and around the world will be better off living in a just society and that they will receive solidarity and fair competitions in this just society in order to ensure prosperity for their lives. Trade unions play an extremely important role in this regard, as we all see here today, especially when we are on the verge of extremely difficult decisions that can only be better if we carefully bring them through the demanding process of union dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. or Mrs. Cveta Zalokar doesn't have the word. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u76	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Today, we are mainly talking about trust or a crisis of trust in this law. The public doesn't trust anyone anymore. He doesn't believe in courts anymore, he doesn't believe in inspections anymore, he doesn't believe in the president of the country anymore, he doesn't believe in ministers, he doesn't believe in the National Assembly anymore, he doesn't trust the President of the Government, he doesn't trust the Government anymore. The point of confidence in all institutions and unions is at the lowest point in the history of this country. Now we have said a lot about this mistrust and the reasons, but it may be worth recalling again why this is actually happening. Many times this comes because what has been foretold does not come true and then this stone, which is called the crisis of trust, once it begins to fall, becomes even bigger, and the danger is that it also takes what has not been involved in creating this crisis of trust. And it is Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government, who is such a negative example of causing the rolling of this kebab. In the last year with these promises, with these statements about what will happen, where it will happen, how it will happen, create some expectations, people believed it, both before the elections and after the elections, and there were no results. And mistrust also began to deepen among the employees. One of the most typical statements, remember, before and after the elections, I'll quote roughly. "Here before the public I make a public commitment that I will not replace anyone, I will not ask him which political option he belongs to." And then here in the National Assembly, "I don't agree to divide into yours and ours." And in one year, we find that everything that could be replaced has been replaced practically. And it's not a number problem. It's not a number problem! Even if only one were alone in the face of this public exchange commitment, it is enough that this crisis of mistrust begins to establish itself, to sustain itself and to expand. This can no longer be resolved. When we talk about this union law today, one would expect a completely different debate. The first thing we would expect is for the unions themselves, or their leaders, to reveal their own balance after realizing that this lack of employment or membership is falling. We should self-discover the balance sheets and also try to restore the trust that has been lost in this way. Because we're talking about transparency. Today, on the transparency of trade unions, which, of course, you are opposed to, as some other declaration of transparency in the field of public officials, judges and so on, where you opposed the law by which officials would disclose this property. And those that we have passed the law, with the help of some media, have been further "pulled to the cross" because we have revealed this, instead of targeting those who have not done so or those who have been caught hiding something, are still hiding it or are now fictitiously transferring it to some third legal persons, so that they will somehow wash their hands so that with this taxpayer's money, which is largely derived from the budget, they have nothing. And we listen to the same stories today: on one side of the charge, we want to overthrow union leaders by means of this law, that we want to destroy unions, that we cause unrest, that we are against some of the leaders of these unions. None of this is true, and none of this has been said on our part! If we wanted to, it was even said that this law would discredit the government. One statement from one of the ruling Members was very interesting and symptomatic, somehow pointing out in this simplicity to the "licking" of the ruling policy with some of the leaders of the union headquarters, when this Member said, "Here and there we have failed Pahori, but now he is still confused in the unions." Pahor's got a mix-up in the unions! This statement, indeed simple, was somehow true. She said what the Member meant, and then we listened to statements about the tycoons who had come under the previous government. But what's interesting is that all of your membership cards, although some have been publicly returned, some of them are your sympathizers, but they're all there. Any cover we open - the very heads of your sympathizers or adherents are leaked on a daily basis. And you know that in the previous term, some laws - the truth to love, some also with your support, when you were still in the opposition - have allowed these heads, which were previously carefully, hermetically hidden under these covers, to be exposed. I'm talking about that law that made sure that the mailboxes slowly found out that things started to apply. As long as this law was not available, there was no such obligation, and the tycoons created in previous mandates could happily hide under the cover of the law. This law, which we have on the table today, is, of course, in the interest of trade unions. I don't understand that you don't understand - not you, not the unions. This law is in the interest of trade unions, especially in the interest of union leaders. In the interest of those who have lost the trust of membership. I just don't understand that it doesn't - it's something like the government. The government has lost confidence in the public and the opposition has been generously asking what you will do to restore this trust, and let us experience a countereffect in ridicule, in some attacks and so on. It would be normal for this information to be disclosed. After all, trade unions are fed from wages, mostly from the salaries of those who have the lowest wages. That's why it would be right to have these numbers on the table. Many employees torture or worry about data on this - this individual speculation that it is a few million euro in excess of expenditure, for some property. They're also concerned about speculation that there's no other connection. We've heard before, things can be very dangerous if they're not transparent. In the immediate neighborhood, we have experience with a country that has unfortunately developed this system to the extreme. It's not good for something like this to happen in this country. In these economic circumstances, when people are actually concerned about whether they will still have a job tomorrow; in these circumstances, when public confidence is not picked up in any way, of course, it would be right to have trade unions that would enjoy the trust of membership and the public as a whole. This is not the case, and there are some examples of why this trust has also broken over the past weeks, months, and years. Look, I'm gonna tell you because I don't have time, just one case. The case that happened last year and the consequences of it happen this year: Glass Nova, no contributions have been paid for three years. Last year we discussed the amendment of the penal code, you opposed it, then you were in the opposition, it was vetoed. The trade unionists, Mr Semolič, Mrs Jerkič, Mr Ščernjavič, Mr Strukelj, all voted in favour of the veto, which stipulated that such things, when contributions are not paid for employees, are criminalised. They voted against it, they voted against the interests of membership, they voted against the interests of employees, because on the basis of this criminalisation, on the basis of this provision, which was then tried again, in your opposition that there will be no confusion, established, now things like the Stallar Nova are happening, and so on and so on, when the procedure can go to that point, that the person who has blamed these matters will also be taken away from the property. But not only the opposition, but also the main union leaders - by the way, some have been sitting in these chairs for over 18 years - have been opposed to doing so. Against the subject! And then you wonder how this mistrust or that the opposition, in particular the SDS, who caused it or that it is in our interest that it happened - please! It is in the interests of the whole policy in this country that institutions enjoy a reputation, and in these circumstances it is in the interest of the whole policy to enjoy the reputation of those who can secure long-term social peace. However, trust in trade unions is at this point shaken to the point where it poses a serious threat to the maintenance of this social peace. For this reason, your conduct is, I must say, unacceptable, irresponsible and, in some ways, an additional indicator of this "licking" of this part of the policy by leading some unions. With the leadership of some unions. I estimate that such a case, which is relatively minor, so that public balance sheets, which should anyway be public, are announced that if this does not occur in the National Assembly, and even if the unions do not withdraw this move and expose these balance sheets themselves, this mistrust will not continue - which is bad - but not because of this, to blame the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Already in the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, he said that some in our parliamentary group, of course, we regret that perhaps the unions have never done anything more for the transparency of their operation and that the publication of certain data would probably have a positive impact on their membership, perhaps here their future membership, which would of course be easier to decide how and who would defend their rights. Regrettably, the debate to date has shown that the fear that I have just mentioned is true, not only the transparency of trade unions, but, above all, the wisdom that, if you can't convince them, at least be distracted by the reputation of trade unions. I find these arguments difficult to understand that, on the one hand, trade unions do not give up their role in social dialogue and, of course, they can be heard by the proposer of such comments on their performance as they are heard. If union leaders weren't convincing enough, they probably wouldn't be union leaders anymore. If we can witness every four years a change in the composition of the National Assembly to replace power - the same democratic processes also happen in trade unions and, of course, could happen if things were not good enough to assess membership, they should remain as they are. We can still, of course, remain in a public call to trade unions to at least present their membership in the internal newsletters, which they think are useful, but that, as has been said here by policy, we would be engaged in the "face-cleaning" of trade unions, probably not in place. Of course, I also do not understand statements such as that the opposition has been generously asking what the Government will do to restore its reputation. Although I have not been in this House for a long time, it is enough that I have been able to generate an opinion on the good intentions of such calls. I myself, I must say, was more inclined at the beginning of this debate to propose a law than I am now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Today, when we talk about unions and their work, some of you read and tell us what our goal is, what our real purpose is. I have to say, I'm kind of in the middle of something, so obviously everyone in the coalition is looking at us in the head, and you all know what we're thinking, what we're going to do. I find it even worse that some imagine that the world started when they were elected Members of the National Assembly. And after one year, they're telling the minds of everyone and everything, to us who might be here a little bit more, while their memory is only one year ago. But let's go to law school. Membership of the union is voluntary. It is true and therefore members have the right to know what happens to their contribution or membership. But no. A member, other than management, shall not know anything about the financial operation of the union management. He can find out, but he has to go to IAPES, pay 10 euros, in addition to the membership he pays each month, and then he can get the data. However, the head of his union or a union executive can get it at any time, free of charge, although it would probably be easier to pay than this worker who has to pay for it at the APES. Apparently, the press already found out. In short, most union members, if they don't become dedicated officials, never know how much money flows into unions. It is only by looking at the data that controls it, and each member is interested in knowing what is happening with its contribution, its membership. And if he's not satisfied with his union, he might decide to go to some other union or ask his union agent why, for example, the union paid for it and that, he spent money on it and that. I am the president of society, and my members can look at the financial situation at any time, and they do not need any contribution, no payment. The Minister said that it would cost something and that we did not foresee this proposal. ICPES is a state-owned company or legal entity established by the Republic of Slovenia. This means that the funds for its operation are derived from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and it is likely that it would not be so difficult to find the means to establish this application. The law is very short and simple, or novel, and says: "Yearly reports are made public. Keep them published by the IAPES, which is already processing this data like this." Now for today's debate. In the debate, it was said what would cause all this. Now I'm going to list some of these things because they may even be very horrifying or shocking. First, the publication of the annual report would hurt the union. How can transparency be harmful? The only thing that can hurt is the one who's hiding something. And if the unions wanted to be transparent, the annual reports would have been published by their members. Then you're saying that by adopting such a law, we would have disrupted the unions. It should be in the interest of management that their operation is transparent and transparent, that their members know all about what and how their money is spent. Then some say that if such a law is passed, so that the annual reports are made public, the union will be less credible. I don't know how the annual report could make the union less credible: whether or not it is credible. Then you tell some of us to break down the union, get rid of the unions, and influence who runs the unions. Once again, the public publication of the annual report cannot bring down the union, replace leadership or anything like that. How can that really happen? In the case of a trade unionist in the company, this can happen by convening a trade union meeting and giving reasons why the presidents change and replace it. So this has nothing to do with the law. In the case of the president of the union at national level, this can happen in such a way that if workers request resignation, the union presidency meets, they are union leaders by activity. Then an extraordinary congress shall be convened, which shall vote on the non-trust of the President of the Union, and shall be replaced if it has been voted on. So, the law that you object to in the coalition, which we tabled, does not say anything about it, clearly not because we do not break the unions and decide who will lead them, but we only propose that the annual reports be made public. Then some of you tell us that we will devalue the unions, spread social peace; these are very serious accusations and expressions that I do not know what article we are talking about. Then you say we're getting revenge. Who and why? Nobody did anything to me, and I'm not taking revenge on anyone if I'm going to break the law to publish the annual reports of the unions. Others say we demand something that has already been made public. So, those who say that this has already been made public, my fellows, I ask that you provide me with what is publicly provided, and then I will make sure that this has already been made public. No law establishes the incompatibilities of functions. Therefore, the party may not be a union leader or a union member either. Therefore, it is irrelevant whether the president of one union is a member of the SDS, or a member of the SD, or any other political party, this allows him to do so. However, if the law we are proposing is passed, the IAPES will publish the annual reports of that union, whose leader is a member of the SDS, as well as that union whose leader is a member of the SD. In no article does it say that the APES will publish only certain annual reports, and it will have to publish all of them. And lately a number of things have happened, even because of the old things you read to us, so that we have done nothing in the past when we were in government and we had the power and time to do so. We have done a lot, strengthened the work of the Securities Market Agency and some other offices, so that today some of the information that has been hidden in the past is known for what reasons. And what's happened lately? The public has been informed that the Union of Free Trade Unions has allocated EUR 200 000 to each other. Why isn't there another union? Those who pay the mutual premiums are probably not all in one union, but in different - at least according to membership data, which are also more hidden than public, which is not logical, because the power of trade unions is also shown in the fact that, for example, a union leader would require a certain thing because it requires 50,000 members of his union. Therefore, it is not logical why unions do not want to disclose how many members they have and how much they receive from membership fees. If I return to the Mutual, the Mutual is ours, most of us pay for contributions that my Mutual, for example, spends on financing the union's activities, with which I may not agree. And what else happened? The leader of the Union of Free Trade Unions threatened to call off all the loans they had in the Labour Custodian. Now we know that the majority owner of Semolič's union is the keeper, and the condition for obtaining the loan is membership in this union. Money from the collected union membership goes to deposits at the Delavsky Savings House, which approves loans to members of the union and also to owners of companies. And something else has happened, so I'm going to support the law we're proposing. I do not see any of these fears that you have mentioned if the law is adopted, so if the annual reports of the unions are published, this will cause the state of emergency in the country. I don't think that's gonna happen, so of course I'm going to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! So my opinion, of course, is that it is simply that trade unions should be transparent and that we and our Members see no obstacles. Already in the report or in the opinion of the Group of Members, we have said that the Accounting Act in one of the articles provides that APES must provide the relevant data upon request. This is also why, in the opinion of our Group of Members, there is no reservation that this information should not be published in public and accessible without a specific request from the AJPES. However, at the time of the meeting we also received some messages, specifically from a union confidant, where the SMS said that despite the request she did not receive the trade union's business report to which she belongs. I don't know, I can't check it during the duration of this session, but such messages are also coming. I agree with one of the debates a little back that social leaders have to take care of their own reputation. Of course, I agree with that. We also need Members and ministers and all public workers to take care of our own reputation, but certainly we will not achieve this by publishing or not publishing, I am strongly in favour of publishing all this information, but we need to gain respect in other ways. Me, too, I have to get it myself, if I can say that there's a little bit of it in the environment I live in, and maybe I do. Several theses have been proposed today, for example, I agree with one of the adjectives that most trade unions or trade unions are to a considerable extent, if not under the influence of different parties, but at least in the occasional relationship with individual customers. One of the experts in this area’s discussions at one of Slovenia’s television stations was also interesting to argue that the situation in the unions would be settled in their own right, and he said that in a few years’ time the change in generation in union leadership would take place. And another, which has also appeared several times, that the situation in one of the largest state-owned companies will begin to be regulated when the two leading trade unionists leave. But today it has already been said when it was mentioned that one is not a unionist, but a member of the board. More than once, it has been said that we are wasting precious time. This was said by many debaters. I could also agree with that, because I think that this is a law that he doesn't have to devote - well, I am also wasting this time - which he doesn't have to spend so much time with, but could be done with it as with most of the laws at this meeting of the National Assembly. What do we have in mind at this meeting of the National Assembly? If we look at the agenda, we have, I think, 27 agenda items, most of which are such points that we have in 40 minutes, and most of them do not contribute to the possibility of improving the economic situation or the social situation of people. Probably with one big exception, certainly with the exception of the Proposal for a Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. What it will bring will be seen, but it is a specific law that contributes to what it is, you might say, an exception to the meeting of the National Assembly that is taking place this week. If I return to this law, I do not understand the claim made that if the union data is public, their power will be less. I think it should be bigger. I don't know why there's such a lot of anxiety in this debate or what the problem is. I think that the proposal can be implemented quickly, and I will certainly express my view in the vote that the law is suitable for further consideration. It may still have to be completed, but it is certainly suitable for further consideration, and I hope that it will end up in that position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I said my opinion on behalf of the Group of Members, but still, there have been some discussions with real flowers, so it is possible to comment on something. It has been said that trade union officials can have business insights, but poor workers have to pay 10 euros to go to AJPES and obtain data. Once again, we do not separate the essence of membership in the union. Members have the right to obtain information within their organisation, within their own structure. These workers don't have to go to IAPES, the union leadership has to report to them. Others are interested through the IAPES, so it is necessary to deduct these 10 euros. And I can't use another term as hypocrisy. When we talk about union presidents who are not "ours - yours", there is no problem if they are members of political parties, but at the same time they are presidents of trade unions, because this right is given to them by the Constitution. By the time we get to Semolic, I'll beat him: he was in SD, he was in the United List, and at the same time, he's president of the union, and he's been sitting in a chair for 18 years, the worst thing about him. These are double criteria, double criteria, and it's not good to use double criteria, and that's why we have this term that I used earlier. When we talk about funding and reporting, I have said about the introduction what is essential to this, at least for me, of the strike fund; the fund with which the union has its share in the case of a sentence that enables it to act in certain cases. Or should he announce it to the employers: we have so much money, we reach here, we can strike for three days, we have no resources for the fourth day, if you keep for three days, you'll break us on the fourth day. Is this to be announced by this publication? If that's the point, go ahead, I'm against it! Speaking of double criteria, there was also a debate about the religious communities, about the Roman Catholic Church. Do they require transparency? The answer was that it was impossible, that this law did not stipulate that it could not be done and that we did not care about what property they had or how they did business. In part, this is also in line with legislation, and probably so. If I use a little bit to make a joke at the end, maybe this hard debate. Also, when they say, we pick up as much as we can, then we blow up, which remains in the air, it's God's, and the rest is ours, and you don't care what we do with it. These are double criteria, which is not good. When you demand it from one, then ask everyone, but the question is whether this is acceptable at the moment. This bill simply cannot be supported in the good work movement in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Can I help you? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u86	Once again, a nice hello to all of you. Let me continue there, though they say, to an honest man once, but apparently there are people in this House who need to be told more than once. To talk about the union fund and thus to justify confidentiality or confidentiality, if we are honest, data, is, of course, relevant in those countries where the union pays compensation to workers where the union pays the costs of a sentence where the union takes care of all that is governed by law and collective agreements, ladies and gentlemen, because the sentence is constitutional right. With us, the union doesn't pay out of its pocket to a worker and stuff like that. No! No! And he pays off union officials, that's me. As a result of this argument, only a vague situation is mixed with apples and pears and one who knows what it is, including, frankly, fair fun. When it comes to membership in political parties and trade unions. Of course, the Constitution does not limit that. We're all the same. But it's embarrassing if someone was a very high political official, and before that, he was a party member and a union official. And then from the political party's leadership, back to the union, and that wouldn't be so much issue for me. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have begun the debate that this is an attack on the union's independence. Wait, who's kidding around here? That is exactly what was said: an attack on the union's independence by the leader of the SD Group. You can check the magnetogram. I'll keep an eye on everything. Speaking of facts. You yourself mentioned several times, because a worker, if a member of the union, can get everything, all the data from the union. And with all responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, you can check this out if you want ordinary members of the union to come to this very difficult. Perhaps in some unions this is well arranged. But I know for sure because I talked to people who wanted to come to this, and they're members of the union, and they said that how much does our official get, and this is reserved for officials in this party - pardon, in the union. How much does our union president get, but it's only for the members of this union's leadership, because it's confidential. Where is your respect for secrecy Listen, but the union is financed by membership paid by this same man! [[...]] Do you believe what he thinks now? He also reads in the newspaper that there are ways to finance a loan through the store to the owner of the company from the union membership. Hello! That's a really interesting way of doing a union. I am not saying whether this is true or not, but certainly there would be all such speculations, allegations and perhaps even any truths at the time of the end when all these things would be made public; and that is all we are proposing. If all this data were transparent, because it is in the interest of trust in unions, because it is in the interest of union leaders and in the interest of their own membership and because it is in the interest of the public at large. Some of you have pointed out various aspects that this, for example, now raises questions about the position or attitude of membership against the leadership of the union. I absolutely agree with that. But we all overlook the key: the transparent functioning of trade unions in a system like ours, with as many public powers as our legal system gives them, is, ladies and gentlemen, in the public interest. As a result, their business is public, the transparency of their business is also in the public interest. That's the whole point of this story. You've overlooked this, everyone who hasn't touched this subject at all. How is it in practice to obtain all this data? Some of you have been defending different claims. I do not know, I still point out that Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar's statement here has been published, which says that it is simply not physically possible to obtain all these data by legal means. That's very interesting. If you have a different opinion, I suggest you speak to Mrs Nataša Pirc Musar to obtain a unified opinion. But if you can't agree here, how can this be clear to some ordinary worker who just wants to believe that the union leader is really fighting for him and not for anything else and that all social dialogue is meant for him, for his rights, for his benefit. This should be done in a social dialogue to coordinate the interests of employees, employees, with those of the remaining groups in society, which also make up elements or essential components of social dialogue in the normal democratic world. As much as at this point as it is possible to count on some of the union's goodwill, as some of you have already said, yes, because they will solve it themselves, they will confirm it themselves. Allow me to express my doubts, again on the basis of a newspaper article, in which we can also read this: "The question of income and membership data" - it is said that only the number, not any names and surnames, would not be misinterpreted by anyone else - that is, the question of the total number of memberships, the framework and, of course, the revenues on business, were addressed to the trade unions. Eleven union headquarters. Believe it or not, this is exactly what was written in this article, and out of eight even the answer was not received! So much for the public functioning of trade unions and their good will, which you just talked about, and if nothing else, is already a sign of disrespect for the public media. But what's interesting is that in two more they've written explicitly, "We can't answer these questions because these are our data of a completely internal nature." And a dot. And from just one honorable exception, they sent some partials, and not all of them, of course. So much about good will and how much can you count on good faith here. Now I have to say that it's hard to understand. Except in the context of wanting to hide something, but if people once feel that someone is hiding something from them, then what has happened to you is what has already happened to you, that the President of the Government is going to the biggest union in a company and both in the same way, with the same frequency, workers and workers, employees, cheerfully cheering up. I don't know if this is your idea of social dialogue? If this vicious circle is about to turn around, because now a spiral of mistrust is spinning, then the first and fundamental condition is to pour pure wine, to present things to the public in full, and again, I stress, I do not understand those who assume that in fact you are becoming the undertakers of unionism and the liquidators of the social partnership, because by defending secrecy, secrecy, concealing data from people, in fact, a democratic standard that has already been established in this country has been disrupted in advance. Because if there is no more confidence, if the union organisation is no longer sufficiently organised, then social dialogue will no longer be full in this country and it will be a great and irreparable damage. And it was only because of the soaring mistrust that no political party possessed, but it was very clear on the previous visits of the President of the Government and some of the key trade unionists in what was the biggest company in the country that was in trouble. And it is difficult to understand that this is not being done properly. But this is about keeping something, which is also constitutional goods, and this, believe me, in the SDS we speak without a fig in our pocket. Those who think otherwise may have forgotten that the SDS, whose co-founder I was myself, was once created on the basis of the union movement, Tomšič's union movement in the previous regime. But please do not compare his heroism with what the current union leaders are doing. Because Mr Tomšič was literally wearing the head for sale at that time, if things were to turn around differently and some cold breeze blew up there from the east, Mr Tomšič would have ended up in what permanent camp, which, unfortunately, is also an appropriate legal basis for someone from Slovenia to sign in the Official Journal, as long as this has already been forgotten. In fact, it is sad today that when one part of Slovenia's most positive democratic history is created right at the labour movement from the self-organization of employees, that it actually emerges into a union elite and that this union elite has no confidence in it anymore because of all the strangest things that money, property and all the rest of it has to do with itself. And that this situation has political protectors who are fighting to make sure that something doesn't change by accident, because they like it being hidden here somewhere. In doing so, even in your own words, you are advocating that social dialogue be maintained. By the way, what it looks like in practice, we looked at the law on higher education. At first, we also supported the fact that the unions would have a greater word, so that those who are directly pursuing it, so students, would have a bigger word, and then you threw it out. So much for your consistency in social dialogue and these things. In the context of the fact that this is something not only Slovenia knows in the modern world, that this is something, because it is a European norm, in particular the norm of Northern Europe, where you know that these things are highly developed and diversified, it would still be appropriate to invite all of you to reconsider this decision. The foundation of every policy, even the basis of every government's action, as far as those who think, because what they can do to us, is up to three years before the elections - the basis for each government's action is its legitimacy, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I'm saying as a political scientist. That's what it says in every cheap textbook, and in the best textbook, it says exactly the same thing. The foundation is trust. And once there's no more trust, there's no more legitimacy. And with this problem you all face twice when it comes to your government as a whole and, unfortunately, even when it comes to something that goes beyond every single government, because I say that the Institute of Social Partnership, social dialogue as a value, goes beyond what is in power. So at first I expressed the hope that maturity would prevail. I said that it would be good for the transparency of this data to be the fruit of some high, common consensus, because it is a matter that, in the long run, draws up a framework for the operation of a country. In our case, even its constitutional arrangements, because in the constitution, I stress once again, it very clearly states: "Slovenia is a legal and social state." Given that some of you have a great deal of work to do with each other and that you obviously have nothing to worry about this topic, I think that in some way, too, in the ruling coalition, you can say your attitude towards social partnership and social dialogue, which you are only interested in until the moment that this lever of your power or leverage is on its way. The moment, however, when it comes to making things purely transparent, such as in the words you all take for yourselves - transparency of business, by the way, it is also written in your pre-election programme or in what you signed after the elections - that moment you are not interested in doing so anymore because it follows some other interests. This is also legitimate, but I am not sure that there will be no consequences, even regrettably, I am sure that it will have disastrous consequences for social dialogue, that this lack of confidence is now being overcome by many circumstances but also, in part, by a relationship that is relatively vehement or underestimating to the issue of reducing the number of employees, to the extension of species in employment institutions shown by some in the Government. Strengthening this will, of course, mean that this is how they work, if you want, also a political culture for the future. This is something that will permanently pave the way for the further development of the country of Slovenia. It is therefore surprising to me where today all those who have such an emphasis on social dialogue in their programme, and especially why those of these types who have a social dialogue full of mouths, in fact today, are advocating that all of this should be hidden from the public. What are you hiding, ladies and gentlemen? Anyone looking at you today, every unionist, at least an ordinary member of the union, who will be placed before paying the bills next month, now wonders: What is the problem, why not make it public? I can't answer that. I hope you'll be able to answer that with union leaders. Because if you do not know, today, unfortunately, will be the day when you will have to face the reality and that you have caused irreparable damage in some precious area of social life during your reign. Just as you are already in the field of entrepreneurship, economic development and foreign policy, and in this way, of course, this also paves our common path to the future. I'm just sorry that some [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u87	Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? He wants more debaters. I'm giving you time to start the application. Six debaters and panellists have been reported. Everyone will have five minutes at their disposal. The first is Mr Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The last words my forerunner said were, but of course, the cameras and microphones didn't capture them, and they were, "You'll be laughing at the election." I strongly agree with this and, of course, it also shows why this story is going on. This is about politicisation and about subjugating the union movement of the current and current political authorities. Those who propose this today had no need for the four years they were in power to make union assets more public and more transparent. The proposal was to say that such an arrangement, as proposed, is an internationally recognized European story and more. I myself read the position of their proposal, which says in point 4: Displaying regulation in other legal systems and adapting the regulation of EU law. The proposal to supplement the law is not proposed with a view to coordinating with the acquis of the European Union, as this area is not regulated. I agree. Next. The proposal for a new law deals with a specific area which is not addressed or defined in other legal systems, and therefore international comparison is not possible. It just doesn't make any sense. Europe has a longer tradition in the union movement than Slovenia. It can be followed by a positive example, and there is, of course, an arrangement in the sense that if you are a member, if you are paying a membership fee, then you must be very responsible, and it is your interest and right to know what happens to your money in an organization that is a private law organization. If, of course, you are not satisfied with this, if you do not get the information, then it is your job to note that the system is not working properly or that you get out of this system. That's your job. However, if the task of policy is to legalise, how should each government view the property of a private law person - today it is the union's turn, tomorrow we will take it if the political need for it is to be under the scrutiny of sports, cultural, firefighter, campers and other societies, if only the current authorities will be able to do so. The next step will be if the current authorities feel that this is necessary, then we should also look at what is happening in families between sheets and what each of us is wearing in our wallet that moment. It is simply a step that has gone too far in this logic of human rights protection. And this thought, ladies and gentlemen of the motioners, is not true. But I support you, and I agree with that part of the story that each of us, who is a member of any of the unions, does the most in its field to make the work of trade unions public, transparent, transparent - first of all for those members who have paid membership fees, and in the next step the public gets the relevant information, through the system provided by the AJPES in Slovenia at this time, and I think this is it. Of course, it is bad when politics tries to subordinate itself to trade unions in one way or another. That's not our job. Our task is legislation, and the task of trade unions is to protect and respect the rights of workers, not against politics, but against employers and owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. First of all, let me deny the statement by my predecessor and some of the discussers that the Slovenian Democratic Party did not adopt this law in the past term or that it did not want such things to be published. That's not true. We proposed a law that you did not support, and the Constitutional Court then rejected such a solution. But the Slovenian Democratic Party is now really proposing that every asset of public officials be made public. Why would we hide something? Therefore, your attempt here to present that the Slovenian Democratic Party is trying to avenge the union with this law - this is simply not true. Let those who have not followed the debate now receive further information - this law has in fact only one article, which provides that the information contained in the report on the functioning of the trade union centres at the APES is to be made public. Any serious union organisation could publish such data on its website, but why would they be hidden? Or, if you object to this, that there would not be a few euros of costs for the country, if you had to make it public, let us write an amendment so that journalists could publish this report. However, I am sure that the journalists of the 10 euros will sacrifice to receive such a report at the APES and will also publish it. There's no reason to hide anything. However, this will greatly contribute to greater trust in trade unions than they now have. Now, something about the operation of our unions, about trust. It's a very dazzling work of trade unions. Why? The union is no longer what it used to be, only once a year to provide a winter break and to organize union parties, silhouettes, excursions. Trade union workers expect help when they need it to protect their interests when they are in danger of losing their jobs. To help them when they lose their jobs. Unfortunately, there is very little of this when this aid is needed. Consider the examples of Mura, Steklarska novi, Gorenje, there was little talk about Swan from New City, about Beta from Metlika, about Novoteks, and about many companies that had actually fallen silently, and the trade unions were very, very passive or not heard of them very much. As the presidents of the trade union headquarters grow to a large extent, the wages of workers need to be increased, how the salaries of managers should be reduced. I agree with the fact that many of the salaries of the manager are unethical, but it is the managers who are responsible for the business and that workers have a job in this way. However, I have not yet heard, nor have I read anywhere, that any of the presidents of the unions would now be in this crisis, when many are giving up their salaries or lowering them, so that someone would declare that they will themselves in solidarity to reduce their wages. What's more, they're basically hiding information about their salaries like a leg snake. Now it's supposed to be published somewhere, but I doubt it was entirely voluntary. They say or say mostly in the coalition that workers are voluntary in the union. Yes, they are, because they expect some protection when they need help. However, it always turns out that they do not get the assistance they are expecting when necessary. We now have a number of such cases, and it is therefore right that, if the assets or operations of these trade unions were to be made public, it would be possible for a number of trade unions to choose, on the basis of such data, to join another trade union on a voluntary basis. And also this, statement that they are loved, that the workers who vote for their leadership are all of you know that's not the case. These elections and all that is are farce. Everything is done in the background, according to the recipe from the time of the party and communism to us, and it is now very present in the unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u92	I'm just going to go on where my esteemed colleague, Saiovic of LDS, has stopped. He said what I was done with, but of course he forgot to mention the first part of the sentence because it didn't fit him. By the way, what did I tell you? That the mockery that you have now performed at the end and you have been a whole species, that is; also the biggest government party not to do wrong was actively involved in this mockery; it is an objective mockery of social dialogue and transparency of business, that is to say the values on which you swear by your written programmes. And that's your problem, because you're obviously saying one thing and you're doing something completely different, even the opposite. So don't be surprised if you're all facing a crisis of trust and legitimacy that is slowly becoming a political crisis. As far as politics is concerned, this is the case with the parties, but they are coming and the same is true for governments, and the second is when it comes to social dialogue as a whole, where transparency and its long-term existence would even be strengthened in the public interest. Not only because it is in the common interest of the whole society, but also because it is enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution and therefore also the relationship to constitutional value. This objective mockery of social dialogue and transparency of business, because we have consistently advocated for more time, which you have done before, and if you think about it, it is also an objective mockery of all employees, because it directly burdens them. They are, in fact, their rights and, of course, their work, their right to work and their wages and all that comes out of it. Why are you doing this, I don't know, but I sure as hell know what method you're using. The one you've been defending all along today when it comes to the issue of the transparency of union business. It's a method of concealment. If anyone thinks I'm overreacting, I would only point out that, as far as I know, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, the official data measured by the agency responsible for the operation of our economy has been hidden by the government for ten days under the embargo, into the drawer. When the final data was published, look, the next day there were some arrests by accident, and then everyone in the public with the economists knew the name list, who was arrested, even his life story, how devastating our system intended and also Europe checked on the business of the economy during that period, and no one knew that. It's a fantastic trick. But just by accident. Here's the whole case. And this is the same thing. When we propose that these things, because it is a defence of values, which is also a constitutional value, make it transparent to regain confidence in order to strengthen social dialogue, you make fun of it and oppose it all the more. You want all of this to remain hidden from your eyes. And if you think it's just my experience and it's not real, which I mentioned when I talked to people, that as members of the union, they couldn't get the data from their own union, how much money had flowed into it, and even less, how it was actually used according to the structure, but where to get it. If you think it's just my experience, I quote again from the newspaper: "Most union members, if they don't become dedicated officials, never know how much money flows into the union." And let me add a lot less about his consumption. And then you wonder if there's a crisis of trust. Once again, if you, as a party like the Government, as a coalition now have problems with the crisis of confidence and thus also the crisis of legitimacy, right, you are responsible for your actions, for your work and face the consequences. But it is not right to let the current situation continue. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in this area, as has been the case so far as social dialogue is concerned, because this will bring down one precious democratic institution, one democratic standard that we had in Slovenia [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u93	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I myself do not have any personal experience with trade unions, as my personal experience with regular employment is very common, and this is I think that the problem that should eventually be tackled by the union is that a large part of the young population simply does not know what a regular job is for indefinite periods of time, and it is also appropriate to know their trade union work. Well, this is a debate that touches this marginally, but I just want to say that I am so far alone as a liberal, "liberal," if you want a freeman, an artist has increasingly trusted himself in ensuring social rights as a union and more to himself than to the system of pension insurance that we have. If I try to bring this back together again, this is why now that I am personally very much on the side of the proposal for a new pension reform, it is strange to oppose the unions of this reform, but that is all I could say from the point of view of the emotional personal matter of the whole situation. Today's debate has shown that many of you, of course, have more experience, one positive, the other not. I myself have already said in the debate that I am in principle committed to the transparency of the functioning of all actors in public life. However, I must say that, as I said before, through the debate, my affection for this proposal has been diminishing, but not increasing. I will put on the soul of the bill's proponents at least that it may be possible in the future, if they really want to bring a marriage proposal through this parliamentary procedure, which at this point I doubt, because I wonder what we would do then, maybe they would choose a more convincing or polite advocate as a candidate. Of course, I wonder here what would have happened if the support of this law had been shown. But what would then be said in this whole debate and I strongly doubt that, in this strong desire to help trade unions to build their confidence in their membership, the adoption of this law would put an end to the concerns, attacks, bullying of trade unionists. Therefore, I regret my support for this law in the first reading I will not be able to give it, but perhaps I could. But according to all the above, you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. During the gratifying smile of the opposition, in one of the previous debates, there were accusations of lying. Second. I want to deny it. You will find both union officials named on the Alternative and Solidarity Trade Union website. They're both union officials, otherwise there's a website. And these two union officials didn't reveal how much they're getting from their union membership. In a few thousand euros, however, they measure the salaries they receive as a member of the board. One as working director and the other as president of the Council of Workers. So from those of you who tell me I'm lying, I expect you to apologize to me. That's the first thing. However, continuing to behave in a paternalistic manner towards Members is one way or another a constant practice. Now, what it was about was a European standard to be introduced by this proposed law. I find it difficult to believe that anyone could invoke the European norm when, as a proposaler, he failed to ensure that a comparative review was also carried out in the bill because he said that this could not be done. But we've come to this data and only in Estonia have these provisions that require public disclosure of the financial situation, or the balance sheet, or if you want these things. You say there are minor changes in marriage. One of them even said, at least not to say no, but we'll fix it. Yeah, what? In a single article? And if this is such a minor change in the law, why was it, at the same time, a request for a general discussion, not a reduced procedure, but a regular one? If these are such trifles, why would hours and hours discuss things that can be corrected in a moment, if that were the case? We were told we were liquidators of the social partnership. This is again one of those easily-proclaimed charges that really is cynical if we link it to the one who spoke it. In the past mandate, we have considered the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. At the time, unions and trade unions were declared incinerators. I've never heard of such a lack of trust in the unions we heard at the time. Or by the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. At that time, the committee was chaired by a Member of the then largest ruling party. He showed a pitiful, rude, arrogant attitude towards the president of the representative union. It shall continue in this mandate. These are things that need to be known when we are talking about the liquidators of the social partnership and those who today hang the demand for social dialogue on their flag. Where were you when we proposed the Employee Sharing Act. What did you say about us when we spoke to this representative democracy, and you didn't recognize the unions as representative representatives of the labour force? And when we talk about other things, private legal persons do not report income and property. The largest such private legal person has not reported income for more than three years. But, you know, it can, of course, hide all this data then, and not everyone gives you what is, of course, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a good cover for everything you don't want to name. [[....]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would very much like to talk about this: if it were normal in this country, it should be so that the unions would always be on the side of the worker and always serious interlocutors to the government, with a strong legal apparatus that would defend the rights of workers. It's not like that. If we look at the actual picture, we see that the worker is very self-inflicted. Even when it is divided from the bankruptcy mass of what is left on the burning ground, the last one comes in. When it pays off, of course, is the first bankruptcy manager to carry home 100 and more euros for his burial activity, and then, if there is anything left, we give it to the worker. Nothing interests either this or the previous government, how the worker will survive, or has enough to pay for his work, or is it a fat enough wallet to buy what is necessary for survival, a normal basket of living expenses, or he will be able to pay the bills. This is far from the priority of this government to take care of how it will survive. Of course, they are full of solidarity in all ministries that can boast about how they want to solve problems. And today, we are witnessing, say, one very big nonsense to save Moore's burning ground when it's already burned. I ask you:Where were the unions when we closed the Road in Primorsk, and, say, in Ljubljana Kolinsko and Tobacco, when we gave the General Sailing in fact, when we handed Elan over to the Croats, and then we bought him back with the state money? Where were the unions when we sold Zatorog Hanklu? Where were the unions when they sold Istrabenz to OMV? And we could list it. I'll give you one example. Germany was demolished to the ground, but Mercedes was not sold. We're selling everything we sell today to make a profit, and you don't care about the workers. Syndicalism in Slovenia should work in such a way as to defend the interest of employment. If we are talking about corruption, it is certain that this government is now favored by a left-handed trade union apparatus, as the previous government has favoured a right-centre apparatus. But since I'm somehow connected to the railroad, I'd like to point out two differences. Railroaders do not have minimum wages and receive for their work, including for the union, a normal payment. While many companies run by the left-centre union are working abnormally long workers and do not receive a guaranteed personal income. And once again what Mrs. Potter said. Of course, you cheat when you talk about how much someone gets paid. Mr Albert Pavlič is getting a salary following a government decision signed by your President. And if we get too much, yeah, something's wrong in that context. And what else is wrong with the railroad? It is wrong that Minister Vlačič has not yet come to the Slovenian Railways, he has not knocked on the door. We have already replaced the Director twice, once your President of the Government has gone to, in fact, talk to Merklova about how you will purchase Slovenian railways, Mr Vlačič quickly pushed a person who did not even have a programme, and now he has found that this person is not suitable for guidance and we have appointed a new director. I hope this one's right. We are wasting our time, while foreigners are breaking into our tracks, into our infrastructure, getting the right permissions to use this infrastructure and, of course, stealing our cargo coming to Luka Koper. But the government doesn't care. These are partners, so-called strategic partners. Of course, this is a problem on the Slovenian Railways and this is also pointed out by the railway unions and therefore they are undesirable and for some time there has been a dismantling of this union movement and the Government "bod" thinks that if it eliminates the union, all problems on the Slovenian Railways will be solved, which of course is far from true. Let us start rebuilding this infrastructure once again and let the Government ensure that the projects are also implemented. In short, irregularities on the government's side are huge and the truth needs to be looked in the face.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, Thursday, 22 October 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - First defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Main Location of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Meti Vesel Valentinčič, State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A nice greeting to all, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a new Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia of 2004, which regulates relations and cooperation between state authorities on the one hand and the Municipality of Ljubljana on the other hand in the exercise of their powers. These are tasks that are important for the development of Ljubljana as the main city of the country, and this is about regulating the conditions for the functioning of state bodies and organisations of national interest, foreign diplomatic and other representations and organisations. The City Municipality of Ljubljana is therefore obliged to take the interests of the State into account when carrying out its autonomous tasks. Ljubljana is, of course, also the administrative centre of Slovenia and as such a centre of gravity. Of course the main attribute of Ljubljana as the capital is the attribute of statehood. However, it is precisely that in Ljubljana, as a centre of gravity, the majority of the most challenging areas in the economic, financial, educational and other fields also requires different standards for the implementation of these different activities and also requires very diversified infrastructure. In this regard, social issues also arise in the widest possible sense. Given that the role of the capital is primarily to provide the state and state authorities and its organisations with conditions of work, we have carried out an analysis of the costs and revenues to see what the relationship of Ljubljana as the capital in this area is to the other Slovenian municipalities. This analysis showed that Ljubljana, as the city’s capital, is more burdened than other municipalities, as Ljubljana’s costs for performing municipal tasks exceeded the average costs for the same purposes in the city’s municipalities by about 9.4%. Taking into account the principle of cohesion, we also note that its revenues are not proportionate to the burdens arising from the position and functioning of the capital. Based also on the identification of additional tasks and burdens, as well as the advantages that the city of Ljubljana has in the form of financial consequences, everything that brings the status of this capital city, and also on the basis of an analysis of the financial relations between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the capital, is defined by the professional justification for the additional financing of the capital through this law, which we are proposing today for the amendment. This view is also reinforced by the comparative legal analysis that we have added to the material, which shows that the status and funding of the capital is largely regulated separately. On the basis of such analyses, we propose two changes, which are crucial. The first is that it is possible to co-finance with the agreement of the defined municipal development programmes from the state budget directly with the Treaty with the Government, i.e. not with the call for tender. When we talk about the answer, it is an agreement from a law that has the legal nature of the letter of intent. And the second point is to provide a permanent source of funding for tasks and programmes that provide the city with a wider public interest within its remit. This is 0.73% of the income paid in the preceding year and in 2010 when the law enters into force and applies would amount to 15 million and 950,000 euros. This income-cost ratio will be verified four years. However, the methodology will be determined by a specific government regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u102	Your Honor! Amendments to the Capital Law are on the agenda because the 2004 law has achieved only half of what it wants for its purpose. At that time, it was envisaged that the reform of local self-government would continue to this extent in order to obtain the provinces, so that, within this framework, certain other functions that the city was supposed to have within the central province would be placed together with the amendment of the Law on Community Financing, which would also provide for the part that is actually necessary under each law, the possibility of realisation, namely the provision of financial resources and the establishment of certain relations when it comes to the negotiation or implementation of certain delegated or agreed functions. And because this was not the case in these five years to make these changes - I believe that the formerly regionalisation in Slovenia will be made to the extent that it is possible within Austria, or whatever else, to have some special status in connection with the transfer of functions and the like, which is all a matter of other discussions. The point of this law is that it is not a law against municipalities, ordinary municipalities, if I say so, or the municipalities that have, for example, a specific status under the law, but not to the extent that they are fully operationalized to the extent that certain functions could be transferred by the State of the Peace of Soul to these municipalities, even at the end of the time when we established a new system of local self-government and when we set up 12 municipal municipalities, it was an attempt to make it a design for further reform. When I say that what we are regulating under this law is certainly not against anyone, but, above all, the consolidation of certain beliefs both in Parliament and in the public domain, that all countries have the capitals, that the main places in all countries have some special roles, special powers. After all, even responsibilities, because these are the old ones that we use and are intended for all citizens and citizens, as well as others who are coming to the capital, and therefore appropriate conditions must be put in place. It would be wrong for us who belong to that part of the electorate and Members coming from Ljubljana to fight to ensure some special status for the Ljubljanaers. However, it would be wrong for anyone who comes from any other environment to look solely at the interests of their environment. Slovenia has the ideal conditions for comparing itself with some countries - comparisons are also mentioned in the introduction of this law. Through the geographical position, through the historical, cultural and other position that Ljubljana has, it is directly called for the country which has most of its institutions in Ljubljana to agree with this city how and in what way some things of common importance will be regulated, how, in what way this can also be carried out. The new one is, of course, that those things that are agreed between the city and the government, especially defined, are given a special place. Of course, this regulation of this law does not mean that ongoing investments, current functions managed by the city cannot be privileged in relation to other municipalities, to the rest of the functioning of local self-government. We regret that in all these years we have made many attempts to ensure that the Law on the Financing of the Communities is fair on the one hand, but also, of course, to ensure solidarity in terms of the spillover of certain funds where some conditions are more difficult to ensure that, of course, this should not mean that Ljubljana, on the other hand, as the capital, would have no possibility of autonomous development with additional conditions, with additional improvements in the work, when common functions are performed for all citizens, for all citizens, and, of course, for the influx of foreigners to Ljubljana, but also for tourism, for business, political or any other role in which they are found and when they are found in Ljubljana. It is true, you will say, of course, because it is also a source of income, it is a greater possibility of development, but first it is necessary to establish all these conditions, then we can also talk about it. It is clear, however, that from income we all pay, pay, even business entities, taxes and various other things that go back to the common treasury and then in the system of some honest, fair, if you also want a solidarity way of financing all functions, even at the local level. After all, we know that in Slovenia, I do not know how much this is according to the latest data, but I do not believe that if more than 30 municipalities, which are self-sufficient, were sometimes said, it is now slightly different and this force is distributed differently across Slovenia, depending on many factors. But, as it is said, at the Liberal Democracy Club, we support this law because the 2004 one was too weak to act on what was its goal. However, this is also, as has been said, the result of some other reforms that have not yet been implemented, or changes to laws, which, of course, follow us more recently. Much has been said in this law. We certainly do not think that because of the need to regulate the status of Ljubljana, we must have a bad conscience. On the contrary, as for everyone, it is also necessary to be obedient in this work and I believe that the law will receive support for the follow-up procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Five years after the entry into force of the law, it has been shown that its solutions have not sufficiently and adequately ensured a structured relationship between the State, the Republic of Slovenia and its capital. That the implementation of the common tasks was too dependent on the willingness of the main negotiating actors, this is from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the County of Ljubljana, and that these arrangements did not produce the relevant results. As a result, the achievement of the objectives we adopted at the time of the adoption of the law in 2004 was far from being achieved. It is right to stress once again that certain institutional forms of cooperation or specific tasks of the capital are known to most European countries - either in the form of special status of the capital, or in the form of specific provisions on the general law on local self-government, or also in the form of a specific law. This was also undisputed when the law was passed in 2004, and this fact was recognized and accepted by the National Assembly as a basis for the final adoption on 26 February 2004 of the applicable law, which we are supplementing today. There was a broad, in-depth and controversial debate in three cases by 2004, but the final vote in the law was confirmed by a large majority at the 70th time for the law by 57 Members and only 2 Members. And the vast majority of Members and Members agreed that because of the interconnectivity, because certain issues of the capital and the state need to be dealt with in a coherent manner, it is agreed and programmed that this law should be adopted. There were many debates at the time of the adoption of the law, including what this law means to the visas of local self-government and other municipalities in Slovenia. It was found that the Main City Act does not address the essential problems of organising powers and financing local administration as a whole. That these questions still await us that many and many questions are not adequately addressed and that we will have to deal with them more thoroughly. It was found that the law does not give the capital some special rights, but that the rights and obligations of the capital also apply to other cities in Slovenia, insofar as and when they perform the same functions as they do in the country's capital. And that the Main City Act has no ambition and cannot solve problems of decentralisation and deconcentration of the authorities and self-government powers of the Republic of Slovenia, because there has been a lot of talk about whether the Main City Act already presupposes that all state authorities, all ministries and the like, must be in Ljubljana or not. We made it clear, no. This is addressed by other laws establishing and empowering individual national authorities. All that was found at the time is still in force in the parliamentary group today. In particular, it is also considered that the amendments and additions to the Capital Law are not proposed in order to improve the financing of local self-government as a whole, especially when the funds they now have were reduced to the municipalities. It is not the aim of the law to regulate the system of financing local self-government as a whole, although we are aware, I believe that the Government, too, is one of the serious unresolved issues in our country. Therefore, the system of financing local communities, the organisation of local self-government, including the establishment of landscapes, must be regulated in due course and in particular. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia does not interfere with the fundamental regulation of the law. In particular, the proposal does not change the indication of the tasks listed in Article 3 requiring the fulfilment of the coordinated interests of the State and the municipal community. Neither does the proposal of the law change the tasks to be coordinated by the public authorities and the authorities of the municipal community, due to the successful and smooth functioning of the law referred to in Article 6. As was the case in 2004, we believe this is true today. However, the legislation on local self-government, as well as on the capital, has not taken into account the objectively increasing burdens of the city, which are due to the execution of the tasks of the capital and the administrative centre of the country and to the regulation of those tasks, in a way that ensures certain certainty and sustainability. On the contrary, the practice has shown that only a specific agreement to be concluded by the Government and the city council, provided for in Article 5 of the current law, is not operational enough and does not produce results. On the basis of it, no specific tasks of the special congregation have been financed so far, leaving only a beautiful desire and no special effects. At the same time, at the time of the adoption of the current law, it was found that the average population burden of the Municipality of Ljubljana, as a result of the previously mentioned role of Ljubljana, is higher than the national average of all municipalities in Slovenia. Therefore, a special analysis was carried out to this end, which showed that the difference in consumption per capita between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the other municipalities, on average, was EUR 46 per capita in Ljubljana, which is worth EUR 12.4 million - calculated for 2007. Such a huge difference in budget burdens cannot be ignored or left to the goodwill of the partners of the State and of the municipal community, as has been the case so far, especially since these burdens are particularly stressed in some areas of particular importance for the city and the country. The results of the analysis have thus shown that the difference in burdens is particularly high in the area of housing and municipal activities, education, culture, social protection and elsewhere. It takes into account the observed differences in consumption for the previous year, given that changes are planned and the law is being supplemented in 2010, it amounts to 0.73% of the income this year, which would amount to EUR 15 million for 2010. The percentage of the derogation and thus the amount of the calculated income will be determined every fourth year. The next time this will be identified in 2013 and accounted for in 2014. Which means it's not a fixed number, but it changes according to actual consumption movements. This will provide the Municipality of Ljubljana with a specific source of funding for those programmes and tasks which guarantee a wider public interest under this law. In accordance with the agreement referred to in Article 5 of the Law, individual projects or investments assessed as programmes of particular importance are primarily provided. Dear Members and Members, the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is in the interest of all Members of the Group of Social Democrats, as this is our common capital, according to the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats. The law further does not limit the rights of any other local community, as we agree that we will have to jointly not only demand but also ensure that proposals are drawn up and that decisions are taken to address other important issues of the functioning of local self-government in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u106	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! The Act on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia was established in 2004 and then regulated the relationship between the State and the Government and the capital of the Republic of Slovenia on the substantive side. With the changes and additions that we have on the table today, as previously said, it does not interfere with the content itself. However, it significantly interferes with the financing of individual tasks or in the way tasks are financed by providing additional funding for the co-financing of individual projects beyond the current system framework and beyond calls for proposals. Since there's no financial assessment, we don't know how much it's gonna cost. We'll find out each year separately. Additional funds are allocated at a certain percentage of the revenue belonging to the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is approximately EUR 15 million per year. The financial consequences of the implementation of the amendments to this Act will therefore depend on every agreement between the Government and the Municipality of Ljubljana and, unfortunately, as has been criticised a little earlier, on good will or on the bad will of the two partners. This is exactly what changes and additions to this law bring. Arbitration without any criteria, with no clear financial implications. This, of course, puts Ljubljana's ruling coalition in a privileged position vis-à-vis other municipalities, especially with regard to other municipalities, outside the systemic constitutional framework. On the other hand, this law also shows the priorities of the Pahor government. Interestingly, this law, amendments to the Main City Act, to the Government and also to the National Assembly, was adopted earlier than the Development Assistance Act of Pomurje. It is not until tomorrow that we too will consider the law on development assistance to Pomura. Instead of the other regions that are under developmental backdrop, the Government with Ljubljana has been engaged there practically since the start of the electoral campaign last year and from the elections forward to today. The President of the Government visited Ljubljana or Mr Jankovic. 2. This is, by the way, the only regions that he has managed to visit in a year for Pomurje or Mura had no time, despite the public promise given here in this National Assembly. He only found time when it was too late, a few days before the bankruptcy. Ljubljana is therefore the only area visited by the Pahorje government in the last year, although it has no significant development problems. He may have a lack of a long-term vision, but that's the mayor's business. In Ljubljana, there are many institutions, ministries, governments, representations, numerous companies, universities, universities and other important institutions, which are formerly advantages, not weaknesses, or are not burdens that require specific co-financing or allocation of additional national budgetary resources, beyond calls and beyond the system framework. Many congregations, not just city halls, would be happy to provide the facilities of many of these institutions that I mentioned earlier from their resources. Some of them did. We know the cases in Primorsk when the municipalities provided free premises for universities and universities. And with this potential, which occurred after these institutions were placed in the local environment, they knew that this was an additional development opportunity for them. And it would be strange to expect, or some would be surprised if additional funds were required. Even after all the indicators, any of the indicators are taken, the central Slovenian statistical region or Ljubljana is at the top of the Slovenian regions. The highest wages are in Ljubljana, the highest GDP value, significantly easier access to employment and so on. Also according to the development threat index, Ljubljana is highly favoured, index is 9, in Pomurje, say 160, for comparison. So the logical question is: What do we have on the table for a change of law for which there is absolutely no need at this time? I would also understand if we had a change on the table that would define more clearly and in a more specific way the content that was set up in 2004 and thus not have any problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are immediately in favour of making these substantive tasks, which are set out in the law, clearer, more specific and more specific. We are, however, against the fact that additional funds are provided through the system frameworks due to some pre-election promises. The comparative review we have in law also shows that the other environments do not know such models. He's one of them who talks about some kind of harmony, I think it's Rome, but all the other models we have in this marriage don't know him. The model applied by this amendment of the law is unimaginable. If we make a comparison with tomorrow's law on development aid to Pomura, there is a fundamental difference. In the event of changes to the Ljubljana Act, we have immediate direct financial effects, transfers. Based on the letter of intent, there will be an amount of funding to co-finance individual projects, and there is no such thing in Pomure. We have a lot of words there, a lot of activity will happen, but the only concrete activity that happened with regard to the law on development aid to Pomurje before the law was passed is the governor for Pomurje, who is already costing Pomurce. Before the law was passed on the Government, it was appointed and this is the cost that will be borne by this law, which is yet to be passed, by the Law on Development Assistance to Pomurje. Here, in the case of Ljubljana, it was possible to find a model, which means direct funding without clear criteria, each year separately, depending on how the individual mayor will write. If it is ours or yours, the one who supported you, and if the government is right, the agreement will be small, for example, if this relationship is not right, it will not be. This is not an appropriate approach, not for any government. This method cannot be supported. However, the ambition was that something would happen sooner or later, but also the activities that have taken place this year by individual Members. Remember what some members of the ruling coalition signed at the budget rebalancing by a mega amendment that Ljubljana was making, I think that about €35 million was taken by the Ministry of Defence, for some apartments or something like that, and then all of you, except for three, withdrew those signatures and then didn't vote. So why is this happening? It happens because on this occasion we must return a year ago and recall the pre-election promises of the ruling coalition and the current Prime Minister of the Government of Borut Pahor before the elections. On the basis of these promises made before the elections, Mr Jankovic, on 16 February this year at Ljubljana's visit, recalled that he had received assurances before the elections that all parties of the ruling coalition would be wronged by the Ljubljanas, who were allegedly affected by a change in the law on the financing of municipalities - which we know was not; then I will tell and quote the Constitutional Court's decision - that this injustice will be corrected and that Ljubljana will return the money allegedly lost. The President of the Government, Mr Pahor, thus assured him on 16 February. And that's what's supposed to happen by April. Given the timing that this government has had, it happened very quickly now, October of the month. There were some EUR 50 million per year, now we do not even know in the financial consequences of this law whether it is entirely 50, 100, 200, because we do not know that it is linked to the signing of a separate agreement. And the basis of this promise is the Constitutional Court's decision, and the procedure for assessing amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities was initiated by three other municipalities in addition to Ljubljana. If it were really the basis of this decision and this supposed lost money - then where are these three congregations? Why aren't they in this marriage now? Why aren't they on the table? So that's one argument that's not true. However, the decision of the Constitutional Court states otherwise entirely and was adopted unanimously at the Constitutional Court. Neither Ljubljana nor the other municipalities which have initiated the constitutional review procedure have any possibility of any enforcement of claims against the State due to the amendment of the law. This ruling coalition, and also Mr Pahor, knows very well, and they also knew when they made these promises. The Constitutional Court, inter alia, stated in its decision in 2007, "amendment of the Community funding system also has negative financial implications for individual municipalities, which, in view of the previous arrangements in force, show a reduction in own resources for the financing of appropriate income expenditure, does not in itself constitute an anti-constitutional interference with the constitutional rights guaranteed in the field of local self-government." So one reason to have this law or this change on the table today is the pre-election promises made by the ruling coalition or by Mr Pahor Jankovic. This is about the strong support given to this so-called left troika before the elections and, of course, it is now necessary to pay for this support in some way from public funds. That's a fair point, that's what this is about. And the second reason, of course, is that Mr Jankovic, in his term of office, was enormously indebted. One of the biggest debt increases is with Mr Janković, about EUR 700 per capita is this debt, on average Slovenia is around EUR 230 per capita, and Ljubljana is among the municipalities for the highest level of debt, both after the debt per capita and after the absolute amount of the debt reaching almost EUR 200 million. In other congregations these numbers are not like that. In Postojna, when you asked me from the bench, the debt did not increase in the last term after 2007, and the average debt rate is EUR 275 per capita - total, Mr Kumer. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we allow the possibility that the law should be upgraded. If the Government has assessed that what we have in law must be supplemented, then this can also be accepted, but never in the same way as we read in the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law, which means that Ljubljana and in this particular case, Mr Jankovic, will be privileged with regard to the other municipalities, but especially with regard to the other municipalities - what is essential - so that the financial consequences of this law cannot be assessed. Clearly, then, we will finally see the fulfillment of the promise of the first Pehor, and it will be realized by delay and in a distorted form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 2004, is now before us as a complement to the existing arrangements for relations between the State and the Municipality of Ljubljana in the area of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in the implementation of the development programmes agreed under Article 5 of the Law, and the Municipality of Ljubljana provides an adequate source of funding for the tasks under its competence, ensuring the conditions for the functioning of the bodies and organisations. Ljubljana is simply a capital under the 10th Article of our Constitution and as such a symbol of the statehood of this country. I don't know if there's a country that doesn't have a capital. There are countries that have as many as possible. Slovenia has one, and this is Ljubljana. The proposal for a law is based on the provision of local self-government and the principle of cohesion, it is said, the proportionality of sources of funding with the tasks of local communities and the costs they have in carrying out their tasks. So it is true that the rules on the fixing of the amount and the purpose of the use of State budget resources to co-finance individual tasks or programmes under the jurisdiction of the municipalities are excluded, ensuring a wider public interest by law or regulation on the basis of law and the criteria for determining the extent of co-financing of municipal investments. I hope there will be no serious doubt about these tasks that we are talking about here, the tasks of the capital. Although someone may think that Ljubljana is doing them more or less well and that some other city would do them better, things are so far such and Ljubljana is definitely doing them according to its capabilities. The Law on the Capital of tasks and programmes under the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Ljubljana regulates the provision of a wider public interest for the development of the capital and the provision of conditions for the work of the highest public authorities and other bodies and organisations listed by law. Article 5 of the Act provides for a special procedure in which the Government ensures the exercise of a wider public interest and the content of the letter of intent or agreement. The provisions of Article 19 of the Law on the financing of municipalities are excluded by this Article, which, by implementing this inconsistent application of the provisions of the Main City Act adopted in 2004, has become even more evident. It is true that we are not doing so until 2009, as has been done here. However, I think that this could be done in 2007, 2008, or at least this year, not until 2010. This must have also affected the performance of the tasks that Ljubljana, as the capital, has to do so "for the country", which is probably not in the interest of any of us, so that this country does not function as well as well. The proposed new Article 6a provides for the financing of tasks under the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Ljubljana in respect of which the co-financing of the State is not agreed and of those tasks whose cost burden is higher than it would otherwise have been for the purpose of providing the conditions for the work of the authorities and organisations laid down in the law. All things cannot always be accurately predicted. An additional source of funding is the proposed share of income from income. The content is to further finance the implementation of the tasks under the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Ljubljana, by which this wider public interest is ensured, as established by the law already mentioned. An assessment of the level of costs based on a comparative analysis of the costs of the mandatory tasks of municipalities and the costs of the Municipality of Ljubljana for the same tasks and an assessment of the revenue of the municipality or revenue of the Municipality of Ljubljana for the financing of these tasks has shown that the costs of the Municipality of Ljubljana are higher, precisely in the field of tasks in which it is necessary to take into account the requirements of the State authorities in establishing or improving the conditions for the work of the authorities or organisations which must be provided under the law of this condition. It is proposed that the law determine the percentage of income paid in the preceding year. So you also saw in the material that it was a rather complicated formula, which clearly shows where and how the calculation of these costs is. It is not always the goodwill of the government, as we might say, that it goes in many other countries. I do not know how much material you have read, in France, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg and Slovakia, it is similar for the government to determine what these funds are by means of an annual act or at the time of adoption of the budget. In our case, there has also been an agreement on a formula on the basis of which it can be estimated how much funding will be allocated each year. It is true that, in short, it is agreed that for each financial year, these funds will be shown for the reduced revenue of the public treasury from the public budget, while at the same time increasing the revenue of the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana or the public Treasury of the municipal budget. This year, 2010, revenues will be reduced by just under €16 million, with the revenues of all other municipalities no less than after the implementation of the Law on Community Financing, when some municipalities have received more, some as well as others again. And among those who got less was Ljubljana. As for the following year, it is clear that due to the income figures in 2009, we cannot know how much they are, and this will be known, as a rule - expected in December of this year, and the formula is known. I could illustrate the necessity of adopting this law by suggesting that if the Commissioner for Pmurje now costs a few weeks or a month, although not all the conditions for his work have been met, then the state of Ljubljana has for at least five years, since the adoption of the Main City Act, costs something. Ljubljana is pleased to be the capital of this country, and expects the state to understand that there are certain costs associated with this, for which it would be good to distribute them fairly fairly between the municipal budget and the state budget. Since this co-financing has not been agreed and regulated since 2004, some Members have tabled amendments that would at least make this financial situation a little easier for Ljubljana because we believe that Ljubljana deserves this because it is well enough to function as the capital, and also because Ljubljana cannot develop autonomously in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government if, on the one hand, the State, by the Law on Community Financing, somehow denies its own resources, funds from the income of its citizens, on the other hand, imposes certain obligations that other municipalities do not have. We are therefore of the opinion that in this case these agreed amendments to the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia do not favour the Ljubljanas, because, on the other hand, Ljubljana also has certain duties which other municipalities do not have. Every mayor present here, and I hope that even some sub-district, all the parishioners will probably not understand that whenever we are here, let's say, we are discussing any new task that the state imposes on the municipality, the mayors will immediately ask where the source that the state has foreseen for us to carry out. The same is true with this law: because Ljubljana is the capital, we also provide with this change of law a source for her to carry out her duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary of State and colleagues! I present the position of DeSUS on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. In front of us is the text of the Proposal for a new Law on the Capital City with which the Government of the Municipality of Ljubljana sets an additional, higher cost-proportional source of funding. In 2010, the Municipality of Ljubljana was expected to receive around EUR 15 million on the basis of this law. The government has assessed that the exercise of the powers of state or city authorities in the capital area requires specific arrangements and a way of co-financing development programmes in the Municipality of Ljubljana. The proposal allows certain development projects to be implemented by signing a direct contract between individual budget users and the Ljubljana Municipality, following agreement between the Ljubljana Municipality and the country, so this will be an award of funds without a call for proposals. The amendment also introduces an additional source of funding to the capital of 0.73% of the income, thus providing the city with conditions for the execution of all those tasks resulting from the needs of the state authorities and the Ljubljana Municipality. The agreement, which will be concluded by each mayor or mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana and Vlada, will announce which projects will be co-financed by the State and will result in the signing of the corresponding contracts. Above all, it will be about financing the construction of various infrastructures. However, every four years it will be checked that this height has to be corrected. The proposal for a new law on the capital is based on the provision of local self-government and the proportionality of sources of funding for the tasks of local communities with the costs they have in carrying out their tasks. The municipality of Ljubljana is provided as the main city with an adequate source of funding for the tasks under its competence, which provides conditions for the functioning of the bodies and organisations and the representations in accordance with national interests. According to the DeSUS Group, it is impossible to see that Ljubljana, as the capital, has a special responsibility and that according to the content, it is primarily the administrative centre of the country. In its territory, the public authorities and bodies of the Municipality of Ljubljana meet in the exercise of their powers. At the same time, we must be aware that Ljubljana, as the capital of Slovenia, is also a symbol of our country in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution. That is why, in our opinion, it is in the interest of the State and, of course, the municipal municipalities to ensure the coordinated programming of the development area of the capital in all development programmes, both the State sectoral programmes and the relevant spatial act, the regional programme, as well as the municipal, spatial and other development plans, and the coordinated implementation of the tasks under the powers of state and municipal authorities. It is because of the special importance that, according to our assessment, every capital, i.e. Ljubljana, is difficult to assess what are the right criteria for determining what the corresponding amount of funds it receives. At the same time, we are aware that the problem of funding the Ljubljana Municipality needs to be resolved as soon as possible. We also do not see clear criteria for assessing whether the proposed novelties have good or bad consequences in the Group. And this is the reason why we are in a different opinion group. So, at the vote, we will decide each one of you for our own knowledge and our own conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u112	Good-bye! Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! On 26 February 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the basis for regulating the relations and participation of the public authorities and bodies of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the exercise of the tasks under their jurisdiction relating to the performance of the tasks relevant to the development of the State capital and the regulation of the conditions for the functioning of the State authorities and bodies and of the representations. The law is based on the fact that the capital of Slovenia is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as discussed in Article 10, one of the symbols of statehood. The municipality of Ljubljana also has a special socio-cultural, administrative and economic significance from its history, geographical location, demographic position, structure, economy and population. From this point of view, it represents a centre of gravity where the frequency and extent of socio-economic events or events are detected. The latter also clearly means an additional cost-development burden for the municipality, as it is forced to participate actively in the development and maintenance of a number of infrastructure networks, both road, municipal, social, institutional and similar, which are intended for both residents and day-to-day or occasional migrants and provide conditions for the performance of Ljubljana's functions as the country's capital. Of course, we also agree with this in the Group of the People's Party and, of course, wonder why this law is not being implemented. Moreover, we do not see any need to supplement the law, as the existing law is not being implemented at all. Certainly, things are moving in Ljubljana, as Ljubljana is only a construction site, but we believe that some projects are too expensive and that in this weak financial situation the whole country is not real and do not raise the quality of life of citizens and citizens in the capital. In our opinion, despite major investments, the townspeople of Ljubljana also face such and different social pressures, which must certainly be regulated as a priority, such as social housing. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the management of the Municipality of Ljubljana that additional costs arise in the performance of Ljubljana's functions as the main city of the country, and these costs must certainly be paid to the municipality. The most important thing for us is that the resources from the state budget are earmarked for the eligible investments of Ljubljana as the capital, and it is essential to ensure that the use of these funds is monitored. The proposed amendments to the law do not provide funding for eligible projects, but rather determine the level of funding from the State budget. No control mechanisms have been put in place in the draft law to control the use of allocated funds. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the importance of Ljubljana as the capital of our country and also of Ljubljana as European capitals, but funding should be resolved in a complex and transparent manner. This can be achieved through the reorganisation of Slovenia and the adoption of the whole legislation and not only by such amendments to the laws. Today we are talking about legislation in the capital, tomorrow we are going to talk about Pomour and at each meeting we are going to talk about the resolution of individual provinces, and I hope that Members will not start to compete with each other, who will first introduce a law on the financing of some province. This is a fragmented approach to solving regional and local issues, indicating the lack and absence of a comprehensive strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. This area needs to be regulated comprehensively for the whole country and the necessary legislation on regions should be adopted and the status of our country's capital should also be regulated in this legislation. We support the city of Ljubljana, its citizens, and we want things to be settled so that Ljubljana will truly have and strengthen all its vital functions of the capital, but due to countless problems and intransparency we will not support the proposed changes to the law. The allocation of the City of Ljubljana funding from the State budget without a call for tender does not provide for transparent business, as the funds intended to finance the functions of the capital must be spent on purpose. We fear that the proposed amendments to the law are intended to meet the promises of the government coalition and to pay for support in the last elections. The funds allocated from the state budget will, however, be spent on projects that will benefit individuals rather than citizens, the citizens of our capital. Once there is a proposal for a law to finance the needs of the capital on the basis of the call for proposals on the basis of the call for proposals, and it will expressly condition that the funds allocated are earmarked, we will be pleased to support such changes in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will move the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With a proposal for a new law on the capital, namely the Municipality of Ljubljana, something is becoming very clear. Ljubljana is an almost bankrupt city with its debt and debt to its legal entities of over €180 million. The Long Municipality of Ljubljana is almost half the debt of all the other 210 Slovene municipalities. It should also be added that this amount represents only the principal of the debt, not the interest that is growing daily. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has actually embarked on debt relief and the current catastrophic situation through a proposal for a new law on the capital, but the search for original sin is not about the reasons for this situation. The proposal for a new law means, in other words, that all Slovenian taxpayers will pay for the non-economic activity of MOL. And it's only in 2010, about 15 million euros, plus 0.73% of the income, that is, every year millions and millions of euros. And all along with the explanation that it is a matter of providing conditions for the work of public authorities, institutions, etc. It is difficult for us in the Slovenian National Party to understand the logic of such content of the explanation. Does this mean that the Municipality of Ljubljana, from its municipal budget, finances state authorities and state institutions? In view of the content of the state budgets, this is certainly not true. However, the higher represents a proposal or requires that the above amounts or percentages be further verified and, if necessary, increased every four years. I mean, really amazing! If I go back to the theory of financing public authorities, institutions in Ljubljana. Other municipal congregations could then make such a request. Say Celje, Maribor, Murska Sobota and so on. Government authorities and state institutions also operate there. It is true that in Ljubljana, as the capital, the majority of the representative institutions are. Once again, however, they are financed by state budgets. And as we have heard from one of the discussers today, they can also represent a certain rating for the city’s congregation. Not to mention mega-Romanian MOL projects, say, various stadiums, Muslim mosques and so on. Or is there a rabbit hiding in this bush? And who are the persons responsible for such a devastating financial situation in our capital? That's what you know. Only the Ljubljanaians entrusted him with a four-year term in the elections three years ago, if we can even talk about Ljubljana, the indigenous Slovenian Ljubljana and Ljubljana. We are afraid that Ljubljana will become a smaller Slovenian town every day. And now you come up with the proposal that all Slovenians should pay incompetently, irresponsibly, if not unknowingly and criminally, and manage municipal budgetary resources paid by the inhabitants of the Municipality of Ljubljana. And it is very rude to demand that the waste, incompetence and misery of Jankovic be paid: poor Slovenian worker, socially endangered Pomurski farmer, Slovenian pensioner with 200, 300 euros of pension and so on. Please be serious, at least a little insight into the Slovenes and Slovenes! How dare the Ljubljana mayor demand such a thing! In which Zagreb or Belgrade he would not have thought of such a thing, because they do it with such mayors for a short time. Is this novel a compensation, a settlement, or a settlement? That's what the street is talking about. For this moment hangs in the air all the time, from the time of the last state elections forward. All the activities of the capital and its mayor before the elections and, consequently, the election results also indicate that such a hypothesis could also be justified. And now some in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Mayor expect and require us Members to vote in favour of and support the wasteful work of the incompetent and cost-effective mayor by adopting such a bill. And what will our electorate think in such a case? What's the poor little hillbilly gonna think? What will 3,000 recently think on the road of dropped workers from the Mura factory? What will a pensioner with such a low pension say to such a mission? What do you think? What would you tell me if I voted for such a law? You know what they'd say to me? Let me just stay in Ljubljana and not think of any elections in Prekmurje. That all Slovenians and Slovenes will pay the debts of the Ljubljana mayor - categorically not and not once again. And Jankovich should also be given large sums directly through the state budget, including Prekmurci and Pomurka, who are still well reminded of the robbery of the Pomur region and the hostile takeover in our region of the very successful retail company Consumer, which Mercator bought directly through the door of the indebted company Food and with the help of bribed Prekmurski leasings for change and thus contributed to the robbery of Prekmur and thus contributed to, inter alia, his administration of Mercator to the sad state in which our region was located. From these and, I could also mention what other reasons in the Slovenian National Party we do not support such unjustified spending of Slovenian and Slovenian money, nor do we sit on political explanations that such additional financing of Jankovič's treasury would be in line with the national interests of the Slovenian people. Please, what a hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say right away that I was born in Ljubljana and I am a Ljubljanaian, but I feel no harm in this, given the words of my predecessor, when we should, I don't know what, the Ljubljanaians are hiding from the whole public and Slovenia. In previous years, I have had the opportunity and the happiness of having participated several times in the meetings of the mayors of the European capitals, and this has not been just a few times. I have participated more than ten times in these meetings of the mayors of the European Union's capitals and candidates. I have participated several times in meetings between the mayors of Central European capitals and South-Eastern Europe, and I have also had this opportunity to participate in the meeting of the mayors of the world. And I've been getting the same or the same questions over and over again: have you already settled the status of the capital of the state of Slovenia, or has the legislation been regulated? I have always been in trouble because I have met with the mayors of the European capitals in some way since 1995 and for years I have been wronged to deal with the situation that we are about to settle in Slovenia the status of the capital, its right, its duty, but unfortunately I have a feeling that today a number of words have already been said, which is going in the direction that we are not going to settle this today too with this amendment of the law. I am optimistic, and I hope that we will vote on this novel and that we will take a step in the right direction of regulating the status of the capital as a driver of the country's development. At the outset, I must also immediately dismiss all suspicions that we are somewhere in the role of mayor, the current mayor of Ljubljana's capital. I have dealt with the status of Ljubljana personally, and you can see that since 1995, when Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic was not yet in Ljubljana, there have been other mayors, we have been other parishioners and city councilors, but we have been dealing with this status for 15 years, and I hope that we will finish this once. To return to the law that is now in general debate. Article 6a of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia provides for a percentage of the income belonging to the capital city of Ljubljana, which provides for a wider public interest, other than investment, within the framework of its powers. The proposed percentage 0.73% is based on a professional study Comparing the costs of performing municipal mandatory tasks of the Municipality of Ljubljana with other municipalities in Slovenia. Well, I'm happy that they didn't do this study in Ljubljana, but elsewhere, because if we were working in Ljubljana, there would be even worse controversy about what it says in there. However, the percentage was calculated by the legislator using the results of the study, which found higher expenditure for MOL, current costs and transfers as the average of the municipalities, which is expected to be around 50 for 2007, I will say, euro per capita or about 16 million euros per capita for 2010. In the study, the calculation is justified by the following summary. The results show that, on average and after individual years of observation, MOL has actually recorded slightly higher expenditure for the purpose of carrying out municipal tasks. At aggregate level, the highest deviation was recorded in 2003-2004 and the comparison was made in 2007 and reached 10%. On average, however, the costs of MOL exceeded the average cost of the municipalities for around 9.4%, which I said was 46.7 euros per capita for 2007. And where did these derogations first show up? This is in the residential-communal area where, for example, the derogations were 41.9% in 2002 and 34.9% in 2007. The derogation is also high in education, culture, recreation, sport and smaller in the field of social protection and the functioning of administration and public administration. I will not list all the matters that I have prepared, because there are many things that have already been said by the initiators, but I would particularly point out that when defining the tasks defined in Article 6a of the Law Amendment, it is also necessary to draw on a certain basic definition as described in the commentary of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and there, I quote: "mainly, the state representative function requires the financial side also the level and quality standards of the entire urban infrastructure, the regulation of the city, the ability to meet the needs to stay, transport, cultural institutions that reflect not only the strong reputation of the city, but the country as a whole, although they are necessarily reflected only in the area of the city." This means that, for all the tasks of the capital, it is necessary to ensure that, among other things, these tasks reflect the strength and reputation of the State as a whole, whether they are the tasks of the MOL as a local community, but because of the capital, they are carried out in a special way or otherwise, or whether they are tasks that do not belong to MOL as a local community, but are present because of the specificities defined by the status of the capital and fall within the MOL's additional tasks. These are various tasks, which are known of course, but there are no conditions for the operation of state authorities and organisations and representations, in the field of environmental protection and the use of space, public security, transport security and so on, provision of spatial and infrastructure needs by placing in the urban area of Ljubljana State institutions and bodies, provision of additional non-profit dwellings in Ljubljana - at present there are more than 2,000 - provision of special superstandard arrangements and services in certain areas, from transport arrangements, special municipal arrangements, municipal infrastructures, provision of parking places, provision of special and superstandard services for foreigners living and working on MOL, from health, education, culture of residence, sport, recreation and so on. Of course, I appeal to the understanding of all Members of the National Assembly. Personally, I believe that this 0.73% is too low and that the applicant could also consider a higher percentage. Of course, I believe it is necessary to initiate procedures immediately for the adoption of a new law on the financing of municipalities and to redefine the financing of local communities, not only Ljubljana, but all local communities in Slovenia. I am also pleased to hear that the State Council has already supported this amendment to the law today, and I hope that we will be in favour of it at tomorrow's vote. By the way, since it was mentioned earlier, other municipalities offer or give land to different institutions, universities and so on. Ljubljana also donated land for the construction of art academies before the time. This will enable art academyes in Ljubljana to get their space and their new role when money is provided for construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! I think that we should all be concerned, not just about the appearance and reputation of this country, if the views on the role of the capital are what we could have heard in one of the presentations of the opinions of the Group, especially when it comes to the National Party. I think that every national state, and ours is one, must be aware of what its capital is, and is, as has already been said, a symbol, and it is being treated accordingly. The simplifications we witnessed, I don't think they deserve a place in this hall. I understand that maybe one of the viewers, the voters, thinks that sometimes we've been paying all our taxes in Belgrade, now we're putting them in Ljubljana. However, there can certainly be a number of thoughts, although equally unjustifiable, we have sometimes applied for the underdeveloped in Kosovo, and now we will be putting in favour of the underdeveloped in Prekmurje. Of course, both eyes are wrong. We must be aware of the interdependence and the need for more attention and more resources to be paid to certain areas in the country for certain needs. Of course, more money is spent on social problems in Prekmurje than on social problems elsewhere, because these social problems in Prekmurje are the biggest. The same applies, of course, to the needs of the country; in Ljubljana more than for the needs of the country elsewhere where there is no such problem. Because among these tasks that the capital does for the country, they can also be such as deepening the railway, where the interest is mutual - and from neighbouring Austria we have a fine example of how this can work well - to what it would be difficult to say that they are a distinct local interest. The establishment of national and transnational graves, landmarks and other similar facilities is, of course, in the interest of all citizens and citizens. Or perhaps defining areas for representative public spaces, providing surfaces for demonstrations, cultural events and celebrations of national importance. That's probably something we all have in common. Although it sometimes happens that the local community organises something that is of national importance and the country here, although it should, does nothing. You must all remember that weeks ago our basketball players successfully represented our colors at the European basketball championship, won fourth place. Who prepared the reception for them? - Where was he? In Ljubljana. At whose expense? At the costs of the Municipality of Ljubljana. Was the echo of this event national? Yeah. Did our basketball players like that? Oh, my God! Will this make our country's colours more cordially defended in the future? Bodo! They themselves said that they did not expect this, of course, to be disappointed because they did not reach the medal, but that after this reception in Ljubljana they would feel satisfied and would be happy to defend our country's colours. This is one example where we can, if we want and if we are well-intentioned, come halfway and together. And to conclude: one of these things, which would also be possible with the proper agreement of the State and the capital to complete, is the completion of the renovation of the Ljubljana Castle, which, by the way, hand to heart, has never actually been built to the end. But this is one image that any visual impression from our country can't really escape, and until the situation between the state and its capital is settled in a mutually satisfactory manner, what flag will it win at the Ljubljana Castle? Ljubljana! Why won't there be a national mountain? Because so far there are no reasons. Why should I? I'm sorry. I hope that both flags are stormed on this castle as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. He won't. Sylven Tiny. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The construction exhibits the facts that say that the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana is interested in only construction projects and that Ljubljana is a simple construction site. Of course, the mayor's thinking, which is thus speaking and supporting the development of the capital, is to be welcomed, but at the same time I ask whether all of this is feasible in view of the debt owed to the Municipality of Ljubljana? The debt of the Municipality of Ljubljana and its legal entities is almost 40% of the debt of all 210 Slovene municipalities. According to June this year, Ljubljana has almost €95 million in debt and legal entities in the public sector have an additional 87 million and a half. This total debt exceeds €180 million. The total debt in Slovenia is 475 million. I only mentioned the principals of the loan. Interest is not included here. In addition, there is no additional EUR 15 million here and an additional debt of EUR 31 million this year on the balance sheet, which is already agreed by the Ministry of Finance, which means an additional 16 million European loans by the end of the year. The Public Finance Act provides that public institutions and public undertakings whose founder is a municipality may be in charge and issue guarantees designated by the municipal council. As can be seen from the available data, all these public institutions, which are heavily indebted under the auspices of the Municipality of Ljubljana. Of course, as stated in the law, this is not contrary to debt, under the law on public finances. Of course, it is worrying that some public institutions are over-indebted and will ultimately have to solve the financial problems of the Ljubljana Municipality, which is the founder of all these public institutions. One of these is the Public Housing Fund, which is in charge of EUR 36.2 million, with 3.5 million short-term loans. The proposed law is intended to complement the existing regulations of the State and the Municipality of Ljubljana. The law is not yet supposed to regulate the co-financing of the agreed development programmes of the Municipality of Ljubljana from the state budget and changes in some way are necessary. The proposed new Article 6a provides for the financing of tasks under the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Ljubljana which are not agreed upon for co-financing of the State. The municipality of Ljubljana has been a long-standing city since I can remember. I understand that the objectives set are high and the desire for pre-election promises to be fulfilled. But I don't think it's a good time right now, it's not the right time to accept something that all the congregations dream about, and they're not going to get these wishes and needs that citizens have through the state budget. We also have the second largest city in the country, Maribor, which has never received such attention as Ljubljana. Earlier I could say that it is being blocked in development, which has been a constant since the second option adopted the management of Maribor. I would certainly expect, and this is what citizens of all municipalities expect, to see also their needs from politicians coming from their areas and elected them. However, the practice shows otherwise. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, representatives of the Government! In our House of Commons, we have already stated what our position is, namely, a positive position towards the capital, a positive attitude towards Ljubljana, and a negative attitude towards the way in which certain matters are dealt with. The system was set up very well in February 2008, when the current coalition, then the opposition, was ready to support it until our minister and then our government prepared all six regionalisation laws. However, when they saw that this government was working seriously, taken, fairly and properly, when the legislation was ready, they were not prepared to support one of our country's fundamental further developments. If this happened a year and a half ago, today we would not have as many problems as we have across the country in all areas. Now the government comes with some invalidity amendment of the law, namely, we have a law on the capital, and if it is not implemented, of course the problem of the government and the mayor or the municipality is why it is not implemented. Come and write down that individual projects or investments of the municipal municipality will be allocated funds from the state budget by letter of intent without invitation to tender. You know that all municipalities, even if they have on the line, I am also talking about smaller municipalities, 3,000, 2,000 euros for the development of culture, sport and so on to make the whole procedure from the announcement, call, criteria, criteria, commissions, gathering and so on, and then distribute it. There will be, in Article 1, no invitation to tender, and so on, ad hoc, there will be funding, sponsored by probably a lot of, as we are already accustomed to, different sons of mayors and so on have huge assets, businesses. And in this way, it is supported and growing and corruption will continue to grow. No, really there is no reason at all for the 6th article, where Ljubljana will receive just so, ad hoc an additional 16 million euros for next year. If such a bill is compared with the draft budget that this government coalition has put into consideration in the National Assembly, which was presented, and we find that only at the Ministry of Transport in road infrastructure investments has it decreased by about 30 million and smaller municipalities have also collected up to EUR 3 million of investment money, you simply cannot believe. You can't believe it! On the other hand, there will be 16 million for something, and we do not even know what it will be for. The country has most institutions in Ljubljana - yes, indeed, but it could also have them elsewhere in Slovenia. However, she has not been able to do so until now, apparently no coalition. Why wouldn't these institutions operate elsewhere, or if they had regionalisation, if they carried everything from health care, secondary education, state roads in the third order and so on to regional level, it would not be necessary to have as many institutions and as many apparatus in Ljubljana, but to manage them in areas where people live. Although the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, when presenting his programme, said that regionalisation would be one of the most important and first points, unfortunately after a year and a half this has not happened and nothing has moved in this area. This would be the only systemic solution that would lead the whole country forward, but not now by amending legislation, with some new laws and so on, which is, in short, a completely non-systemic solution, so that the state or city municipality builds certain facilities that apply to state institutions. I guarantee you that I do not know any of the smaller congregations, but we have them in the country, thank God, 210 so that public institutions, health care and so on, build these institutions also in these congregations. However, if local communities, mayors, municipalities, municipal councils were to bring doctors, pharmacies, dentists and so forth to these places, the municipalities built these facilities, put them into use by concessionaries or public institutions that gave their doctors there, and for a while they would not and do not collect any rents to bring the service closer to the people. You know, I find it awful when someone in this House is talking about not winning the Slovenian flag at the Ljubljana Castle until you give money for it. In Slovenian municipalities, Slovenian flags win in small municipalities, as well as when you took the money. By simultaneously predicting that you will also change the law on the financing of municipalities - which, of course, in other words, you no longer need to be smart, from your mouth, means taking money. And as has been said today, the abolition of small congregations - and some coalition MPs say that large congregations suffer precisely at the expense of having so many small congregations. But look around the country. The only ongoing European projects are projects running in municipalities. You can't do the rest anyway, or you haven't done anything. We did not give the city of Maribor or the state did not even give those three fighting millions for the university candidacy. Because it's Maribor. But you know, the Slovenian flag still wins in Maribor. It is also the mayor who is aware of what Slovenian identity means, Slovenian language, Slovenian culture. I hope that this will also return to Ljubljana and that there will be no conditions in Ljubljana: money if you want to win the Slovenian flag. So, of course, I will not support such an anomaly of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, all of you. Of course, it would be very happy or essential to discuss otherwise if today, instead of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Main City Act, we had a proposal and a change to the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Of course, if the law on the financing of municipalities on the table were to regulate the relationship between the municipalities and the other municipalities, I would like to say in the introduction that we in the law on local self-government wrote that we have two types of congregations, if I may say so: the municipalities and all the other congregations. The city’s municipalities and other municipalities also have their duties and obligations to their citizens and citizens. It is true, however, that the funding of municipalities, if I may say so or better, is, if I may say otherwise; the money allocated to local self-government in the budget is significantly too small for all municipalities, in view of the tasks and obligations we have of course. It would be best if, in the new Law on Community Financing, we could actually make funding for municipalities according to the following key. Otherwise, I firmly believe that they have several more tasks and responsibilities than the municipalities that have the headquarters of administrative units and perhaps all other municipalities. In principle, however, enough money should be provided to the municipalities to ensure that their money is as level as possible for all citizens and citizens. Now, of course, at this point, we have to say that we are kind of putting out a fire that is a little less than €16 million for 2010. That's the truth. And, of course, we're afraid that the next law will put out another fire. That is why a person would expect the Office of Local Self-Government and also the Ministry of Finance to appear in Parliament as soon as possible, a Law on the financing of municipalities that would address all these shortcomings that have now been. As they find in the city’s congregation, we also find in other municipalities that this money to provide the obligations we have is, of course, not enough. I can say that most municipalities that receive headship or appropriate spending, as I call it, we provide that part of the funds needed by the municipalities for normal operation, for all other investments, of course, and that money is usually running out. Therefore, as we are talking today about the lack of some money in the municipality of Ljubljana, it would be good to remember that some money is missing in Haloza, in Slovenian Gorica, in Prekmurje, for the basic supply of our population, such as water, roads, health clinics, pharmacies and more. In the National Assembly, of course, we often hear that small congregations or, rather, the countryside is almost the only culprit for having a recession in the country, that we lack money in our budgets, that we are not developmentally oriented or that we are not developmentally oriented. Of course, to some extent, we did not invest in added value, even I agree, because we basically had to ensure what was already in some major environments and what is actually normal for the supply of a certain population, such as providing a normal gym, as much as a regulated kindergarten, to provide one-shift education in primary schools, to provide drinking water and some money in addition to that to devote to also amateur culture and sports activities. I think that I have almost come from the topic of the agenda, because today we are considering amendments and additions to the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I would like to point out that in some way I am aware that the city or the city’s municipalities have additional or different burdens than they have in other congregations. In any event, I would ask the question when the 2010 budget is adopted and also how we will provide additional funds to cover the situation in Ljubljana in this economic situation. Would that not, or would it be written in an explanation, harm to all other congregations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I have to start by saying that I am not disappointed, but I was expecting a different debate because the Law on Community Financing is supposed to be on other occasions. I thought that today we would discuss whether, after five years of experience we have gained, it makes sense and sense that the law in force on the capital that we adopted in the 2004 National Assembly should be upgraded. And I thought there would be a debate in this direction. To begin with, I would say those who are a little cynical, perceptive and would suggest to my colleague Puksic that he take a walk under his feet, walk on Ljubljana and count all the state flags that are limping. He'll start here in the Republic Square and end up in Podutik at a firehouse, and he'll find that this is a huge deal. Then let him come with the information before he says that they do not sail the state flag in Ljubljana, and there are many in his Desternary. Let me get back to my marriage. But maybe there's something else. At the previous item on the agenda, I heard from a debater myself 20 times that we do not respect European standards, but we discussed a completely different topic, namely trade unions. And now I would like to ask this same page why we are not discussing the main city in the same way and talking about how much and why we do not respect European standards. You have also received a review of how this is regulated in other European cities, and you will not find one place that would not have these things regulated by a special law or specifically regulated in some other laws when it comes to the capital. Therefore, given that you all agree that Ljubljana is the capital, that it is the symbol of the country and the administrative centre of the country, higher standards should apply in the construction of the infrastructure and all accompanying items belonging to that infrastructure. Of course, this means that some additional resources must also be provided so that this capital can function by implementing these matters. And contrary to what you have discussed today, this Article 5 corresponds to me, which means that both partners must sit down in co-financing and agree each year on which projects are common, which are of wider public interest and which also constitute some infrastructure for the functioning and enforcement of Ljubljana as the central place for the governance of the country, and how much the State budget will have to provide for the implementation of this project. And I am in favour of regulating this every year and seeing it through the budget of the National Assembly and getting to know it. This practice has not been implemented so far, and this does not work either. I therefore propose that we support this practice in some way. Maybe there's something else in the end. I understand that today's debate on the capital is mainly used to assess, evaluate and implement Ljubljana's urban budget. This is also the only budget of the city of Ljubljana, which is under review and is subject to criticism, because it is the capital and is the largest budget of Slovenia. But I would ask you if, in this way, some of you are discussing the budgets of some other municipalities since 210. In the National Assembly we had mayors who owed their municipalities over the annual budgets, here they sat, in these benches, in the first place they sat, and then you didn't discuss it this way. I agree that there is a problem in polycentric development and when they speak from these smaller municipalities, because the administrative centre is in Ljubljana, but there is one polycentric development and 209 mayors are located in Slovenia. It is true that there are state institutions in Ljubljana, but 209 mayors with money bags for the development of these municipalities are scattered and sown in Slovenia. And you're not in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We are discussing the Law on the capital of Ljubljana, and let me say that those of us sitting in these benches are proud of the capital, because we can be proud. These parties settled Ljubljana for the capital, and these parties were the ones who wanted Slovenia alone, where Ljubljana will be the capital. On the other hand, some of their representatives objected to this, even at that time. They said that Ljubljanans and other Slovenians would eat straw in Slovenia alone. One is even a message, one sitting now that at the time Ljubljana will crown itself as the capital, the capital, the Republic of Slovenia, will be sitting at the Loggia cafe on the Titov square. That was the message from your side. And we are proud of Ljubljana and because we are proud of Ljubljana and Slovenia, we want the whole of Slovenia to develop somewhere evenly, more evenly. Here, when we observe, and Ljubljana gained the most, far most, from the capital, it acquires daily funds that go automatically from the budget on the basis that it is the capital. And that's why it was extremely criminal and demagogic and žleht's statement by the Ljubljana mayor that this option, which made Slovenia independent and Ljubljana as the capital, took the money to harm Ljubljana. It was Ljubljana's best use. And I didn't even know that Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic was now threatening that if the money he demanded was not allocated, the Slovenian flag would not be paid at the Ljubljana Castle. Yeah, who's gonna cry? What flag is he going to hang? I can imagine what flag they're going to hang, and she's going to win the Ljubljana castle. This law today is the last law signed by Minister Plosteiner. Now, by this time, the minister is gone, she's gone. And why? She said she was giving up because she didn't have political power. Because he made the decision, that's what everyone reported, Minister Gaspari, because he was under the command of Minister Gaspari. When we put this together, who decides where this law is, it's a logical matter. But we must go back to that history before the creation of independent Slovenia, because of the emergence of parallels. In fact, when we discussed the budget, Balance Number 2, the budget of the country, 17 Members, including you, tabled an amendment to remove €33.5 million from the defence ministry. I assessed this at the time and I estimate today that the attempt to break into the Slovenian budget was an attempt. And since this attempt to infiltrate was not successful at that time, it appears in other forms. Today's law is an intrusion, direct power from the budget for half this sum. The second is that three ministries have the resources to purchase Jankovic's apartments from last year. At that time, it was argued that the 33 million were intended to buy already built apartments, real estate brokers in Ljubljana. We know where these mongrels come from mostly, not from the island. And this was a direct order from the Ljubljana mayor to the 17 members of the National Assembly of the ruling coalition. And the incursion took place in the former country's financial system by Serbia, before the state collapsed. It was then, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u129	Please listen carefully to the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u130	At that time, Mr Gaspari was the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Yugoslavia. Vice Governor of the Bank of Yugoslavia. At that time, there was no warning of this Slovenian leadership, as they wrote. This intrusion, which is now taking place, for purchases that are then directly poured into private pockets, is according to the same recipe. I'm afraid it comes from the same logs and the same interfaces of Donava and Sava, I think ideally - the same patterns are used. As a result, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is a dangerous marriage. For here it is provided in Article 6, and I do not know which yet, in Article 2, direct spillage, without public tender. The contracts are signed by the mayor, totally imprecise. And it won't just be 16 million. He won't. The Ljubljana municipality was tasked by the mayor, "puffed", as we say, completely, did not wait for nothing to leave the case - what if things happened that would make him no longer mayor, we need to have the funds loaded. [[...]] And, of course, this is going to be much more from the state budget. This is why it is also dangerous for the Ljubljanaers, not only for Prekmurce, Haložane, Belokranje, for the Soča, who will be even poorer. Which will make them even poorer. And let someone tell me if he's going through Ljubljana, whether he's walking through Prekmurje, or down the valley of Sokoska, or in Koroška, where there's a better quality of life, where there's a greater shortage. Is there a shortage in Ljubljana?Oh, my God! Does it feel like there's a lot of work here and they're unemployed?Oh, my God! And it's an option, it's a government and it's a coalition that allows intrusion into a state budget that allows uncontrolled flow into pockets. That's why you're in charge of some things. Those sitting in Loggia are doing propaganda for the country, for a couple of thousand euros against the cost, but they don't ask for 600,000 euros in executive salaries and I don't know how much they're showing. That's not a problem, and that's not a problem for the media to deal with. And of course, it is known why such lynchings and why such propaganda - to hide the fire that is going on elsewhere, to hide the intrusions into the budget, to hide the uncontrolled consumption of state money, and because of this intrusion into the budget I cannot support, even though you will all vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, the replica. Did you recognize yourself in the speech?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u132	I recognized myself and... [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u133	Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u134	I have also heeded your instruction to listen together, for such a contribution to madness as it has now been, you rarely hear it, but it is [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u135	Do you have a substantive replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u136	That's why we need to be focused, and I've made an effort to do so. [[...]] Mr Jerovšek misunderstood what we initially wanted to settle when we presented the views of the parliamentary groups and also with the law itself. We wanted to make it simple that the self-proclaimed guardians of this country and of this capital will at any time, at their discretion, abuse this great thing, and what the capital should be, proud of all citizens and citizens. I am firmly convinced, and therefore, I said in the introduction that this law is intended for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because it deals with the issue of the capital, which is the capital of all citizens and citizens, not that it is the robbery of other parts of Slovenia and Jerovšek has finally failed when he did not recognize that I and many others from our party are the vote for what we now have. But the question is, how is Mr Jerovšek with you? You came from somewhere, maybe like a May bug, or not. Maybe a lot later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Franco Yuri procedurally. But I warn you, procedural proposal, there can be no controversy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u138	No, no, procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u139	Or a replica because you didn't speak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u140	I suggest or urge you to ask Mr Jerovsk to mention the person who drank coffee in Loggia. Because there have been some serious charges against someone who drinks in Loggia Coffee, Loggia has been closed for two years, or, unfortunately, that's where Mr. Luka Yuri and I have been going. Now I want to know who's sitting here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u141	I understand the procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u142	Where did he drink his coffee? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u143	It's a procedural proposal. I will not follow your procedural proposal, which is also not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There are no replicas and no procedural proposals. I would like to warn you, Comrade Jerovšek, that you have also been willing or reluctant to challenge you with [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm not giving you the procedure. I would also like to warn you, Mr Jerovšek, that you have made a deliberate or unwitting argument with the President of the National Assembly, who is in charge of the meeting, and I cannot respond to you in any way. I would ask all of you to avoid it, because if you don't, I'll have to leave the habit and then go to the bench later and answer you, otherwise I'm announced in the discussion. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u144	Mr President, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you do not state the truth. I'm just saying [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Thank you. Of course, I'm undemocratic when I have to be, of course, or we wouldn't come anywhere. Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u146	Dear colleagues, hello again! The agenda item we are currently discussing has the title of Amendments and Supplements to the Main City Act, not to amend and supplement the law on the Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic. In 2004, Slovenia adopted the Main City Act by analogy with other European cities. It has established basic relations between the country and the city, which are of course of common importance for all inhabitants of Slovenia. The tasks are contained in the basic law. As the proponents have told us, the amendment and supplementation of this law is intended to provide conditions for work. Not some insinuation, guesswork, opinions - it seems to me, etc., but a comparative study carried out by two experts, Dr. Jean Oplovtnik and Dr. Boštjan Brezovnik from the University of Maribor, found that in a comparative study the cost of carrying out the mandatory tasks of the Municipality of Ljubljana compared to other municipalities in Slovenia, the funds that Ljubljana receives for carrying out these tasks were not sufficient to cover these tasks. This is the first, if the basic study took place in 2007, we must be aware that the year 2008 and 2009 were completed, when Ljubljana had to cover from its own resources the deficits for the implementation of these urgent and mandatory tasks. Therefore, the applicants make two amendments to Article 5 and Article 6a and say that every four years it will be determined whether this contribution or this compensation is appropriate, too large or too small and the projections will be carried out. Therefore, of course, there are no indications of the fulfillment of pre-election promises in place and, in fact, harsh "insinuations". I would also like to say that, in spite of everything, of course, every capital has in some way the benefit of being the capital. This reminds me very much of the discussions about Belgrade and Ljubljana, Slovenia, Yugoslavia, etc. However, I would like to tell you, at the top of all that this law stipulates that Ljubljana is an extremely friendly city to all of you. Daily migration in Ljubljana amounts to 100,000 people, of which 70,000 are workers and 30,000 are students and students. Ljubljana subsidises urban transport to many topics. There are 25,000 people in Ljubljana who are temporarily registered, of which 10,000 live in Ljubljana temporarily for more than a year, and do not contribute anything to it. To a large extent, however, they benefit from all services and infrastructure conditions provided by Ljubljana. Ljubljana is even so kind that, not like some other municipalities, it does not charge 1,600 children who are involved in Ljubljana kindergartens from other favourite municipalities, but, as with their children, it contributes about 70% of the price of services in kindergartens. Гостoljuje also offers Ljubljana to elementary school students who attend schools built by it, to patients who are non-Ljubljanci and who visit health homes built by Ljubljana from their own resources, and could also list. These discussions are really unproductive and I believe that, in fact, with the basic commitment that we have adopted the Capital Law, the conditions for this law to be implemented should also be regulated. I do not therefore object to the urgent need to open the Law on Local Self-Government and to discuss how to regulate the status of other municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. You want procedural? Here you go. However, I want you to really make a procedural proposal, or I will stop you immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u148	Mr President, I am doing the duty you should have done. Ma'am, my dear colleague, we should warn her not to be insulting. I'm watching us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. If we compare her words to yours, then thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u150	I'm protesting!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Please calm down and do not try to comment so impulsively on the words of other colleagues and fellow Members. Thank you. He's got a word for, if I may say so, the hot afternoon of Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. I am calling myself an alien in Ljubljana, and this is a korsi, Istrian newcomer, who is very excited about his capital when the capital is really like this. And I am proud when other so-called arrivals come, even from abroad, when they visit the capital and I can proudly show them the beauty of this truly beautiful Central European city. Each capital has certain requirements that go beyond the standards of ordinary cities. We all know this, especially those who have lived in one way or another and looked at other major cities. And everywhere, the way and standard of treatment of the capital is specific. This is where the most or all foreign representations are located, where the major events of the Republic of Slovenia take place. From this point of view, it is logical that a law which is five years old should be adapted, but not to the fullest extent. Is this now the optimal way to determine whether this is the best of possible laws, because I am not an expert in financial and legal solutions, in fact providing those key features and infrastructures of the capital. But it is clear from all objective estimates that Ljubljana, as the capital, has been deprived and that the fact that we are also a part of this city in Ljubljana requires even more responsible conduct and responsible assessment of the needs and specificities of the capital or capital of Slovenia. Although Slovenia is not a large country geographically, it is very diverse, interesting and everyone knows that Ljubljana is located somewhere near or near the geographic center of this beautiful country, it is a city that we all respect and respect, including those who go to drink or enjoy cappuccinos and coffee in our localities. I would like to add that Loggia is a wonderful Renaissance pearl of the ancient Mediterranean [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u153	Comrade Juri, we are talking about the city of Ljubljana and this place is not according to my behaviour in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u154	You know what, Mr Pukšič and other colleagues spoke about all other congregations. Allow me to give a few words to my congregation in my country [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u155	But not about the locals. [[...]] You can certainly talk about your city congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u156	That's it. I would like to point out that we have been going to that wonderful place, which is unfortunately closed for two years, even when we are thinking about how and what we will say in Ljubljana. So this connection between Ljubljana and Kopro is actually very intense. We are aware of this and Loggia, even then, the time mentioned by the esteemed colleague Jerovšek, was, if I am not mistaken, part of the Republic of Slovenia. And unlike some others who have been very domestically oriented, some have not left this country, while others have done so for a short time to protect themselves from the consequences of the coming catch. So if you'll excuse me, I'll come back to Ljubljana. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u157	I expect you to come, because if you don't, I'll have to remind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u158	But since I didn't have the replica before to Mr Jerovsk, you didn't give me that opportunity, though [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u159	You didn't have it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u160	Literally, if I quote an esteemed colleague, he said here was a sitting MEP who was drinking coffee in Loggia. [[...]] I'm sorry, there's no one else here that's listed. Where were you that day? The fact is that Mr Jerovšek has made another serious accusation, yet another serious accusation. He took advantage of this debate on the capital city of Ljubljana, which I am also discussing at this time, in order to settle, because of resentment, because he may not be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u161	Comrade Yuri, I think it's a pointless debate in this direction. A lot of people have had coffee in Loggia, and so have I. So you don't have to recognize yourself immediately in all the words [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u162	Mr President, allow me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u163	I would ask you to limit yourself to the debate on the proposal for a draft law, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u164	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u165	Come back to the capital, mate Yuri. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u166	And from the beautiful Ljubljana, that's all I'm saying is that serious charges have been made against the man who's allowed to drink coffee in Kohrska Loggia. I asked my colleague to tell me who would be the one who would work for a few hundred euros for foreign countries. This accusation is repeated all the time. And some of us are fed up with these delusions. I pray, when we speak, let us be clear, so that we will know those who are accused, even defend ourselves, even in court if colleagues agree that they will not be protected and protected by immunity. So once again, we will, I will support this law, because I think it is necessary to need it. Perhaps something could be improved, perhaps everyone has an opinion about Ljubljana. But as a citizen of this country, I do not allow myself to think that Ljubljana would be hostile to the rest of Slovenia. It's our capital. Let's be proud. Let's be proud. What's the point in this debate? Let's say a bobbean. You're not nervous about the current mayor of Ljubljana. It's getting on your nerves. And that's why all these hints, these connections with Belgrade. We've already heard one tasteless joke today at the expense of Montenegro. We are now hearing about ties with Belgrade and so on. Please. Let's be honest. This is about having a political and other aversion to the current mayor and trying to guess him in every way. And today you want to do so by hindering or resisting this law. This law is unnecessary for the mayor of Ljubljana, this law is needed for Ljubljana and the whole of Slovenia. Because we want to be proud of our capital, we want to stay that way - attached to the capital, we do not want to feel like strangers in the Slovenian capital. That's not it. If some people feel that way, that's their problem. But Ljubljana is an urban centre, and if this urbanity is articulated in the capital, it will be good for all of Slovenia. I am also against centralism and I myself have been repeatedly, and I will also be critical of some centralistic temptations that arise in this or that law, or in this and that invitation. No, we say this because this is a normal dialogue between the periphery and the center. But to stop something that would normalize the state of the capital, of course, is not appropriate. And at least it is appropriate to continue to accuse fellow Members of something, for which for 18 years some have been persistently searching for evidence, do not find it and then always speak in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much. My friend Franco Yuri came along this time, accused me of many things and told me not to tell the truth. In his contribution he himself wrote: I will not be sitting in the Loggia cafe on Tito's market at the time of the establishment of the state and capital. And that's a fact. I don't know, and he's threatening me on the basis of another quote. I don't know if I can read the quotes and ask if that's true. In fact, when I first asked Drnovska if this quotation from a letter published in Del, Mr. Paolo Parovel from 5. 12. 1998 holds, and this quote read: "Franco Juri was a member of a group of young communist leaders in Slovenia who had been approached by Italian intelligence services through the transnational radical Marc Pannelle." I didn't say that and I didn't write it down. But then he threatened to accuse me, and I heard, and the author sent me a letter, "Why don't you sue me, Paola Parovela, who wrote this, and who do I hope to testify about it?" And also, Mr. Yuri, I'm asking you not to say another time that I'm telling the truth. I ask, and I have the right to ask. And sue those who wrote that down if you have evidence. Of course, I must also reply to a colleague who had MEPs as arrivals. We are Members, sitting equally in this National Assembly as you may be from the capital. Such underestimation is the denial of the constitutional role of a Member. And there are no other Members of Parliament. But you can insult me that way, and you've insulted me. There is a big difference that you feel part of that oligarchy that decides everything in this country, the capital oligarchy, which has extraordinary power, which over the years has shared management wages and has taken over Slovenia. I admit it's not enough. And with these positions of oligarchy is spoken here and unfortunately this law is also an expression of this, the eyes of this oligarchy, who want to command the whole of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I cannot give you the replica, but I can say by my conduct that Mr Franco Juri has never been a member of any Communist party, if I am not mistaken; so much for information. Yeah, then you repeat the untruths of others who write them. But it doesn't matter. Let's stay within decent limits, this has nothing to do with the capital, the law and the subject we're dealing with. But you can gladly save all other things elsewhere, not in this hall. Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." [[The ad in the hall.]] Procedurally, Andreja Črnak Mglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u170	Some people have the right to always talk about everything. Procedurally, I suggest that Mr Jerovšek reads the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language to know what the word "alien" means.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u171	Mrs Črnak Meglič, this was not a procedural question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is "silva blackugelj." Please, we are talking about the law on the capital of Slovenia and let us be aware of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! I am aware of the fact that the National Assembly is not a room for congregational singing and that very different views and opinions on the current changes and additions to the Main City Act are displayed here today. Clearly, the opinions of all of us on this and other laws are so different because we are very different people. But I do not speak like the one born in Ljubljana, after the categorization of my good colleague Črnakova, I am in some way an newcomer, who I have enjoyed in Ljubljana for 35 years and I love her very much. And I've also, I think I've made a lot of contributions with my personal work, so that some things have settled. And it is the local government that made it possible for us to have done a lot in Ljubljana. If the law on the capital city tells us that some things need to be settled with the country, and if only five years ago, in the face of the great fragmentation of Slovenia in the municipalities, we have found that one law must be adopted, I think it is good to find out, after five years, whether this law has been implemented, how we have implemented it, and if it needs to be amended. And I think that after five years we have found that this law needs to be changed, and here are some articles that we are very good at changing. Of course, it's statistics that tell you what needs to be changed. I think that just as some have invited colleagues and colleagues to take a walk in Ljubljana to look at and sum up the numbers or the flags that float or not. I would invite my colleagues to take a walk and see how many streets are actually unscathed, how many sidewalks there are that don't even have curbs. Since we're talking about the city, we're talking about that it's an urban whole that's arranged in a specific way, which is the order of the city. If we looked at the statistics, we would see how many houses in Ljubljana have no plumbing and sewerage, and how many streets there is no access to this, and, finally, we would see a lot more at all the beautiful museums and galleries for which I suggest that you look at them and probably with pride some return and diplomats simply envy us that we live in such a cultural city and that we invest a lot in this cultural city. It is far more difficult to regulate matters in a city than to regulate in a small municipality where 3,000 people live, because hundreds of thousands of people, of course, use them differently and in a different way. Maintenance also requires far more money, as well as negotiating the various common interests that the state is pursuing, and so do all of you. In this city, much more will is needed, much more vision and much more perseverance to prove to some what needs to be done and how. Because it is the capital and it is not only the law of the capital and it is not the law that is against the other municipalities, but it is mainly the law that is for Slovenia and I think you need to be well aware of it and the club the fact that perhaps it is not the most ideal, but at least it is trying to become it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u173	The word is Melita Župevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many arguments in favour of this law have already been made. I may say something again, but I did say whether it was even worth discussing, because everything was already said, and then I hear my esteemed colleague, and I can't help it if I don't discuss it. And on purpose, I'm not going to name him not to replicate it to me later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u175	He'll recognize himself. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u176	But I went to look at the S.S.K.I. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u177	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u178	But I went to SSKJ and all those who feel like newcomers don't feel bad that I won't even say less valuable to them, let me tell them that SSKJ doesn't know the bad use of the word "neighbor". An alien means an immigrant. Here came the arrivals, the locals, and the newcomers, to greet the arrival, and then even the word "herbie" came along nicely. So that word is a very beautiful Slovenian word and there is no need for anyone to feel bad or bad about it. It was said that pride was expressed that we were proud of the capital. You know, it's just pride that you can't live sometimes. For this pride, sometimes it is necessary to give something of the euro, too. It's not just nice words. If we could live off beautiful words, we would all be much better and better off. It has been said that this law essentially opposes even development. That's not true. We're for even development. We have been shown to keep our preeminent promises. This one's the best. Because yesterday in this hall, we listened to the obvious that we have not yet fulfilled any preeminent promise. So now that we're doing them, it's not right. You know what they say, better late than never!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u179	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u180	Better late than never! Well, if you think this one's the first one, let it be the first one. I don't think it's the first one to be one of many others, and it's just by fulfilling it that we show that we're serious. These pre-election promises, too. It is right for the Ljubljanaers to return what has been taken from them. Not everything, but part of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u181	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u182	I'm really excited to make such a commitment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u183	You'll have a chance to discuss it if you sign up. Please don't interrupt the pay phone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u185	Talks, please, not payphones.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you. It's already been said, because we all know what the problem is. The problem is Zoran Jankovich. Very interesting! Someone who has been very loud in this Chamber today, and this is not an esteemed colleague who will now be identified, said very well with the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. The problem is, that's what Jankovic's behind. The proposal is followed by the first man, Ljubljana Jankovic, who, according to him, is trying to keep centralised Slovenia and keep money in Ljubljana. "I believe that Jankovic and the like are members of the mayor, who always advocates the equitable development of Slovenia, which is essential." Tomorrow we will also have a law in this hall that speaks of everything before the opposite, rather than what you said today. You also have an investigative commission where you can look at Zoran Jankovic under your fingers and intestines and find out everything that was, what was, and what would be wrong. And one more thing. You talk like it's Jankovic's Ljubljana. This is our Ljubljana. It's our capital. And if you don't know for a long time if you haven't looked at how many inhabitants have the Slovenian capital, then go take a look. Those 260,000 and migrants or newcomers mentioned, those who travel to Ljubljana every day. When you are so carelessly entangled with the capital, let me tell you, this is not Jankovic's Ljubljana. This is our Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please choose a replica. I warn you that you have a replica right in every speaker who is not from the same political group as you. I actually think you're abusing this institution. I'll give it to you now because I believe you've identified yourself. And secondly, I'm going to think more rigorously about whether I'm apologizing for this recognition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u188	Mr President, I have not asked anyone to deal with me. But we voted that he did. Mr. Potts said yesterday that we rarely use it. I am pleased that Župevčeva's colleague reports from Zasavje, where she was elected, implicitly that Zasavje lives better than Ljubljana. I didn't know that until now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u189	Comrade Jerovšek, this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u190	I said implicitly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u191	such falsification of words that have been spoken [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u192	implicit [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u193	I don't care whether it's my colleague Župevc or SD, really or SDS, it's a matter of communication between us. [[...]] We all listened and didn't say that, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u194	It's implicit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u195	And I love you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u196	told me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u197	Nothing implicit [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u198	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u199	There is a language that is quite precise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u200	Of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u201	a certain, memorabilia. [[...]] We all speak Slovenian. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u202	And I do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u203	And we didn't hear that, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u204	And I heard [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u205	Then to you; if you continue, I will take your word. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u206	I did not protest because of the word "intruders" alone, and not because of the etimology of that word, but because my colleague Črnakova looked at us and spoke of the Members as about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u208	Cannot initialise [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u209	Now that reminds me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u210	And we're not here in this function, and it's not a bad word. [[...]] [[...]] Good. I still have the right to make the final use of the replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u211	Only if you do [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u213	Other [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u214	and I must say that what has been said before is that in Ljubljana many streets are not asphalted and that the house has no water, shame for the mayors! [[...]] Other mayors in Slovenia made asphalt and plumbing for significantly less money. Look at these small congregations, some for significantly less money, and that means that this money is flowing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u215	Mr. Jerovšek, you're going. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u216	uncontrolled [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u217	through the replica to the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u218	In some pockets. [[...]] And that's a shame. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u219	You're going over the replica to the debate! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u221	I will refrain from commenting. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Of course, I cannot support such a law myself, but that there will be no mistake, I also deeply respect the city of Ljubljana, and I am proud of it, for our capital. I believe that every Slovenian or every citizen of Slovenia is proud of something, especially people whose permanent residence is Ljubljana. That is why I am sure that these people who live in Ljubljana deserve better quality of life than Ljubljana now offers them. But why is this quality so bad? In particular, because 10,000 people from all over Slovenia drive daily to work in Ljubljana, and then there are a large number of everyday ones, those who have to work in Ljubljana are problems with parking spaces, there are problems with crowds and, finally, there are major air pollution. And this is done mainly by centralisation, which is in Slovenia from the very beginning. And this law, which is now; I believe you will also vote in coalition; it will not change this poor quality of life into anything. Moreover, I am sure that this quality will deteriorate further. Why? With this money, which, I'm sure, will mainly be used to build some things, some infrastructure, some stadium. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u223	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u224	anything that will happen again [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u225	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u226	In fact, the pressure of 10,000 people to re-drive to Ljubljana, to benefit from these infrastructure acquisitions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u227	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u228	Above all, why should we not try to distribute this money that we are now taking from other municipalities again in a way that will decentralize Slovenia? Why are the city’s congregations again abandoned? Municipal municipalities as regional centres also have a high cost of providing various institutions of regional importance. Let it be any city congregation. I'll bring up the New Town. A great congregation, with many institutions not dedicated to the New City itself, but to the entire region. They are financed mainly by the municipality budget Novo mesto: library, theatre, museum, educational centres, and are now completely excluded by the state's financial assistance. But I gave it as an example. In fact, all the city’s congregations are abandoned in this way. I believe that it is right for the protocol institutions, which have a State importance to be financed by the State. Of course, Ljubljana deserves it. But let it be planned to be entirely by the state, and certainly not to give 15 million euros here per year to the Ljubljana municipality, because we all know very well that this is in fact now the payment of an account sent by Mayor Jankovic right after the elections. This is clear to each of us and this price is very high. And this is the price for the support that Mayor Jankovic gave SD, Zares, LDS before the elections. But unfortunately this price is paid by all municipalities in Slovenia, which is not fair and not good. However, if such a solution really helped to raise the quality of life of the people in Ljubljana, so that people could gain something by doing so, then this law would also be willing to support it. But in this way, with such solutions that are discriminatory, I can say that they are even unconstitutional, and I will not support this law in any way. This is bad for everyone. And I think that Ljubljanans or Ljubljanans deserve more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I was just talking to the Maribor Members about this law, so a little late. There's no bill that Zoran Jankovic would have put out, because if it were an account, it's a year ago. We settle accounts, not like you, after two years you haven't paid, at least one of you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Marinic, specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u231	Peace in Ljubljana! [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u232	The desire is good, and Ljubljana needs peace. Mayors advocate more coherent regional development, so you say, with emphasis, especially for your local community. It's not a big deal, it's a good thing. What kind of mayors would be if we didn't. But when the mayor of Ljubljana does this, it's all wrong again because it's Zoran Jankovic, the thorn in the heel. This afternoon, Zoran Jankovic, morning, Dusan Semolič. We're talking about people who aren't here, and we haven't had much with this stuff in the morning, and now we're not. The capital is the capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana. As has been said, this is not the capital of Zoran Jankovic. Someone earlier said that Miran Potch was talking about not using the Rules of Procedure. He talked about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which we have witnessed to him every day, several times. Mr. Jerovšek, you can wave. Be careful you don't catch a cold, but I think it's too late for that too. He was talking about abuse. I can't find a better or worse word when I assess the operation and the discussions this morning. And when you say that your esteemed colleague Andrea looks at you when she discusses, yes, where she should look, because she did not choose this look. She's just turned there against you and she's looking at you. I'm so sorry, maybe her too. I don't know why these debates I'm listening to remind me of the times before the independence when we all pointed to Belgrade for finger problems. We have been ready to show Brussels for several years now, but most eyes and fingers are fixed in Ljubljana when we have problems outside Ljubljana. The capital law is not the contribution of decentralisations of state functions, nor is it an obstacle. This does not mean that all the institutions before which Slovenian flags clap must be concentrated in Ljubljana. What is possible is also in another city, in another city’s congregation. It's not about the privileges of the capital. The capital is only one. We have one in Slovenia and it is Ljubljana and because it is the capital, it has certain advantages and weaknesses and, of course, it is not enough to say that Ljubljana is the capital. He performs the functions of the capital, Ljubljana, and therefore also needs financial resources. Unfortunately, it is always related to the operation of financial resources and this law, which will not harm any local community in Slovenia. There's 209 others. It doesn't go to the expense of local communities. The budget, although also funded from the budget, certainly holds this conclusion. And when I heard a while ago that it was necessary to regulate things by keeping the goat whole and the wolf full, it is necessary to say in this story that this goat has many cubs. 209. And a small pasture and it is difficult for such fragmentation of Slovenia to financially satisfy, satisfy all local communities. That's why it's going to take something other than the capital law. It will be necessary to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, where we will write down the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, different from those of today, and it will be necessary to amend the Law on the Financing of These Same Local Communities. Financing is such that it will encourage local communities to connect, not to crush, what we have today. If someone wanted to start a congregation years ago and didn't set it up, I'm not going to use the expression to tell him what to do. For he received much more money into that territorial community that had separated from the congregation than before. Not because, in most cases, the centre did not finance these smaller communities by territorial size and number of inhabitants, but simply because we have a law such as "appropriate consumption", "provided consumption" which we have used in the past. And that's what they called after the congregation was established. And we still have this law, and this law will have to be changed. So when we talk about the capital law, we are talking about financing the tasks that the capital has. The law on the capital was passed, I think in 2004, if I'm not mistaken. Today we are interfering with this law in order to give this same Ljubljana, this same capital some resources to serve as the capital. And, of course, this law is worth supporting, no matter what congregation we come from. The city municipality is also considered to be the capital of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič, you did not speak, you did not debate, so you cannot get the replica, as you did not get the replicas before you, nor did those who responded. Andrey Magain has the word. [[Ad in the background.]] I will not give you my word on a case-by-case basis, because I see no reason why we should hold our debate, but I will give you a replica in procedural form. Thank you very much. There are no procedural questions. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the National Assembly, a Member wishing to speak on a procedural proposal, shall give the Chair the floor as soon as requested. This is referred to in Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe or believe that the President of the National Assembly should be more respectful and consistent in following up on this act of ours in his work. If anyone has ever missed a matter which is not in the rules of procedure, the President of the National Assembly at the time of the meeting cannot and must not do so. And I suggest you give the colleague Marinica, who has requested procedurally, a word to make his procedural proposal. I suggest, however, that you respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as it is written. There is no need for any comments, no explanations, no additional explanations, exactly, and everything is well written in Article 69, in this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I gave you a procedural word because you wanted to. I respect the Rules of Procedure and conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My assessment and my responsibility are to sometimes judge with a great deal of justification that a procedural issue may or may not be misused, and therefore I will not give it up. If a Member has applied for a replica that could not be obtained and has immediately responded to a procedural question, it is not necessary to count to five in order not to know what time it is. Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I'm not going to give you a procedural proposal. [[...]] Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Finally, if there are no other procedural requirements involved. The new laws that are before us are essentially aimed at regulating the status of the capital, implementing what is enshrined in Article 10 of the Constitution: "The capital of Slovenia is Ljubljana." Short sentence, but only Ljubljana as a city municipality and especially as the capital has its city in constitutional order. Unfortunately, today we are not discussing the appropriateness of marriage and solutions, but we are listening to long-standing debates on political backgrounds - such as the forerunner, Mr Kontic, mentioned - about Jankovic, Semolic and so on, about the intentions, the hidden and hidden moves of some power centres. So in the morning we heard who is connected to the unions, we heard a story again about a human resources policy that is a political and capital-like debate. While it is quite clear that Demos’ political elites also participated in the formation of so-called new independent unions. He helped himself to form these unions. However, as has been the case in all periods, political recruitment has so far been present in all mandates, but in the 2004-2008 mandate this political recruitment has been the widest and deepest. Perhaps one day a thorough, independent, or external analysis of these events will be made. The third story about the political background is the story of Zoran Jankovic and the capital. I believe that the only relevant debates that have taken place have been aimed at concrete solutions to the laws. I was glad that colleague Anton Kolarič prepared such a good analysis of the applications and meant the capital. That would be good to hear a replica. But no, as always, we will be burdened with this entire mandate with ideological questions. I drew attention to hypocrisy that would appear by the end of this term. It all sounds something like this: We who are righteous on the side of the truth are allowed to recruit politically. You're not. To us who are righteous and on the side of the truth, we can establish our unions. To us who are righteous - we can cast our people into the world of RTV because we know what we want and because we are on the side of truth and justice. I've had enough of this hypocrisy and hope, so I'll also stop politicizing and looking for ideological backgrounds. Let's talk about Ljubljana's capital, and maybe in a few years' time, when we see if these solutions are appropriate, the right time to assess whether the rate of income allocated is essentially appropriate, whether the inflows now to the capital are sufficient. Then maybe it'll be a good time and a good time to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Good, Mr. Marinic. Now let's say there's no more connection between your request and the replica and the procedural question. For example, procedurally, but I would point out that you must make a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u238	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. After three interventions for a procedural proposal. You can't possibly count on it to be an honor and it doesn't belong to democracy because it's supposed to dominate here. For the first time, when I came to the floor to replicate a colleague who has misused my name in an insulting way, because obligations to Ljubljana, to the city of Ljubljana, to the capital, which is also related to the payment of some of the costs that we have to pay to Members and Members of Parliament, I settle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u239	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u240	across from and I have settled all the obligations under this heading to the apartment and to the capital. [[...]] If you are not aware of this, please contact your doctor. And that's all I want to say to you, Madam President. For nothing was our dialogue about whether I'm a Marine or I'm a Marinic. And every time you name me with the wrong accent, you insult me. And if you haven't given me a word on this occasion to explain it to you already, I don't know how many times, then of course that's a solid enough reason for you to want to circumvent business regulations this time too. This gives everyone, Members and Members of the National Assembly the opportunity to come forward whenever they feel that it is necessary to follow the institution of this procedural proposal, which, unfortunately, often makes you wrong to some Members and Members, especially when it comes to a continuous repetition - and I do not want to teach anyone about it, but I find it offensive to Members and Members who are not even properly named, with their name and surname; but because this happens for the first time, it happens again, and it is a personal insult to me. And I respectfully ask that, when you count to five and you are convinced that there are no operational provisions on whether a Member or a Member has a procedural proposal, consider whether, during this time when you were counting to five, something has really changed. You told me that at this time, when you counted from one to five, nothing happened, that's exactly what happened: you called me wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u241	Well, this is a good example of how, I would say, in a procedural proposal that does not exist, to insult and attack the President of the National Assembly at the same time. It's not the first time, it's not the second time, it's for school lessons. Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word, please. He's not here. Franci Kek. He's not here. Mira Friday, Mira Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I am not a Ljubljanan, but I love Ljubljana very much, even though I am an incoming colleague, and this is said in a very negative connotation. One is what is written in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, and the other is how it is said with some intonation and in what context. Now I'm just waiting for you to drive us who aren't from Ljubljana into some ghetto or some reservation, God forbid you put us in some camp. When I was here 30 years ago and began to study, such dictions by the Ljubljanaers simply did not hear and, of course, this is very worrying. About a quarter of a century ago, the Ljubljanaians were much more patient with everyone else. Ljubljana is a nice place. Ljubljana is a city with a soul and let it be a capital for all of us who come from elsewhere, also for Korosce. I think it is right for the Ljubljanaers to give adequate attention, adequate resources, but as much as possible. No more and no less. Of course, on the other hand, it is not good to develop only Ljubljana and its surroundings, and the countryside is old on the one hand, people are moving out and the countryside is growing. About 65% of Slovenia has grown today. And, of course, it is not good that the National Assembly adopts some partial laws, once about Ljubljana, once about Pomure. But we also have other environments in Slovenia that are in great developmental difficulties, and we do not talk about them in this National Assembly. When we give something to the environment on one side, we take it on the other side. Look, in the Meziska Valley, this government took the Notary City in Ravna, Koroška. People have to drive 50, 60 kilometers away to get to the first notary. It's a disaster. They have to take leave so they can get to the notariat. It is true, however, that this is not the problem of Ljubljana, this law, that this is the problem of this government's strategy, which builds on centralism, because it is easier to rule from one centre. The differences between regions are, of course, too great today. For example, Koroška is lagging behind about 40 to 50% for central Slovenia and Ljubljana. Unemployment in Koroška increased from 40 to 61% from August 2008 to August 2009. The gross domestic product in Ljubljana is once larger than in Koroška and could still be listed. Of course, it's not all money. The mayor has been mentioned here several times. I think Ljubljana needs a mayor with a latitude, a mayor with an intellectual background and a great spirit, such as the spirit of the former mayor, the mayor of decades ago of Mr. Hribar, and Ljubljana will, in any case, get the money that ran out of her past one way or another. At the Ministry of the Environment and Space, cohesion funds are distributed fairly domestically. The rules are written in the Municipality of Ljubljana and when Brussels learns how these funds are shared here in Ljubljana, it will be "a nice circus".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say, sometimes I really wonder which of the agenda items we're talking about. And today is once again proof that there is a lot of populism. For we are talking about the law of the capital, but we are talking about what this will bring to the workers of Mura, what this will bring to the worker of Gorenje, we are talking about exile, who will expel someone from Ljubljana. We are even talking about other regions in Slovenia, but I apologize, today is not room, nor is it time to talk about coherent regional development, which we should have in the past, and if we look at what regional policy has been like in the past, there is a lot of headaches. Also for some areas of Slovenia that have just been mentioned. It is important to be aware that this too will be on the agenda. Coherent regional development will also have to be taken into account in the future. Tomorrow we'll have one of those laws on our agenda. It will be necessary to consider what will be done in the future and in which direction it will be invested. There will also be many things open that we will have to save. And it certainly is not a matter of debate today when we are talking about the law of the capital that we are talking about all other topics. But it is true that there are problems and that they need to be addressed as soon as possible. I'm going to focus exclusively on the capital law. Many professional literature clearly states that the major cities in terms of local self-government arrangements are very often in a special position. These are usually very large urban agglomerates, large cities with special requirements for local affairs. I believe that all those who live in urban municipalities or in Ljubljana know that there are many civil society spheres in such centres, many institutions that operate more widely because many people go to these cities, both to the capital and to the municipal municipalities, and participate, educate, visit libraries, kindergartens, theatres and so on. All this infrastructure has to be taken care of at some point. And if we are honest, if Ljubljana wants to take care of everything that all of us who do not live in Ljubljana want to handle properly, then 15 million euros a year is not enough. It has probably been said several times in this place that this is not some special arrangement we introduce in Slovenia. They already know this elsewhere in Europe because they are aware of the importance of this and are regulating the status between the country and the capital. Just the case, Vienna in Austria, Budapest in Hungary, Brussels in Belgium, Lisbon in Portugal, Helsinki in Finland, Luxembourg, Copenhagen in Denmark and so on. These are all cities in countries with the status of the capital and where there is a law on the capital. This does not mean that this law speaks in any way against certain other congregations, by no means, other congregations need to be developed, but this moment has nothing to do with it. Because some status relations between the country and Ljubljana are being regulated, which are urgently needed. If we just look at the current consumption, say, of the municipalities when we talked a lot about municipalities, we see in 2007 that Ljubljana has the highest consumption index per capita. This means that it really has to invest a lot in infrastructure and the population in all areas, culture, sport, investment and so on. If we focus on the municipalities, Mr Grill spoke earlier about the municipalities, and I agree that we must be careful in a coherent regional development in the future so that the municipalities will not be left behind, in this law they will not be safe, and if I focus on the City Municipality of Ptuj, for example, it is immediately for Ljubljana, for example, a consumer of money per population or per capita, because it has a lot of local municipalities that somehow benefit from the infrastructure available in the Municipality of Ptuj. Therefore, it is imperative that we consider, in the future, the law on the financing of municipalities, where this will be clearly apparent - and Mr Grill, that you will also be such a supporter of the municipalities when this law is at the table, because the municipalities also face this problem of having much greater costs than the other municipalities, and this status will be settled as soon as possible. And I agree, Mr Grill, with you too, that the problem of those driving to Ljubljana cannot be parked here, migrated daily and so on, but this is also the problem of Ljubljana, Ljubljana is therefore more polluted, it has more costs to manage these matters, so it needs some resources so that for all those who somehow spend most of the week in Ljubljana, we can manage it. And once again: it is not the city of one person or the inhabitants of Ljubljana alone, it is the city of all of us, it is the capital of Slovenia, to which we must all be proud, and not with populist statements to say that it is against Mura's worker, that it is against workers in Gorenje, that it is against regional development, because it is simply not true. If you do not find any other arguments at this time, then say so, but not manipulate public opinion and say that we do not want to develop the whole of Slovenia. Because if you look at statistics for the past, then you will clearly see that many of you, who today are full of words about how Slovenia should develop in the future, did not think of this when he had a great opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word. Please. Mr. Grill, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u246	Look, it's very short. Mr Levanič, I will be happy to support a law that will provide more resources to the municipalities than the state, but I stress, not at the expense of the other smaller municipalities. If he's on the side of the country, I'm first! And I believe that the entire SDS parliamentary group will support such a law. We're waiting for him to be on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me begin by saying that I do not object to the basic law on the capital city, because I also gave support when the law was adopted and when we discussed this law in the Municipality of Maribor. I think that the Municipality of Maribor was one of the rare municipalities, at least urban, and certainly others, who, in 2003 or 2004, when the law was based on the creation, made comments and supported it, so that, of course, the capital of Slovenia would get its law, because it recognises certain importance and certain things that must also be regulated in the capital. Especially so that someone doesn't misinterpret that I'm against the capital in any way and that I don't recognize this status. However, I consider that a poor way of amending the basic law is by narrowing down only to the increase of the budgetary resources belonging to the capital city. It is difficult to convince someone that this is only necessary to finance orders for the wider public interest. However, of course, we do not define what this broader public interest is, nor do we tell what we are going to finance through this and of course what it is. So much more because we do not have before us an analysis of the functioning of the current law, and what has happened in the capital of Slovenia on the basis of the existing law. If we had such an analysis, rather than comparing the costs of municipal compulsory tasks of the Municipality of Ljubljana with other municipalities in Slovenia, we could actually identify what needs to be changed in the existing law or even written completely into a new one and how to resolve this comprehensively: what needs to be regulated and financed by the state authorities because of the special importance it has for the Republic of Slovenia. I would gladly support this part and, of course, we would see what it is. The debate has already said what needs to be arranged so that Ljubljana can successfully finance the tasks of the wider public interest. Does not all of this apply to other regional centres or to all municipalities in Slovenia? However, we do not have a specific funding system for the municipalities. On the contrary. In the local community funding system, the appropriate consumption for urban municipalities on the basis of criteria is reduced to one sub-collect to 0.8, 0.9. This law, however, partially corrects one city congregation, but we do not correct this nonsense for the other city congregations, who also have problems. I think that, in fact, there is an original sin here, which, when the Law on the Financing of the Communities was amended, Members who adopted the law at the time did not understand well enough what they were accepting and who would be particularly affected financially. Larger city centres, of course Ljubljana, have been affected, and small municipalities have been rewarded, with increasing demands for the fragmentation of municipalities. Why? Because, of course, they calculated that the smaller congregation is, there is a greater inflow. If one congregation had more than 100 units of money before the distribution, they would have more than 100 after the distribution. And that's the problem and a flaw in the funding system. If this were not the case, there would be no 210 congregations today and no requests for six or seven more congregations. I also ask the Government whether the sixth paragraph of Article 5 is in addition, which states that, on the basis of a letter of intent, funds are allocated to someone without a call for tender, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, which determines when direct funding can be made. I think it would be better for Ljubljana, as the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, to have additional points that will make it easier to compete on the tenders and thus to finance certain projects that are important for Ljubljana as the capital. These priorities can also be determined on the basis of this Article 5 and the agreement between the President of the Government, the Government and the city as such. In particular, so that we do not re-write in the law something that is not actually going to be possible and will be a part that is not realistic. On purpose, I do not now expose the city of Maribor, although I could point out what the city of Maribor with the self-contribution of the citizens built to play the role of the regional centre and also of wider public interest. There are also children from the surrounding congregations in Maribor to kindergarten, school, and some from the surrounding area are also going to work in the city. It's the task of the regional centres, that's where it's happening. And in all the regional centers we have such, theatres and other things that mean some extra burden and enrichment. Ljubljana is certainly rich enough in this area. I hope that in determining the seats of the important government services or agencies currently held in Ljubljana, the Government will establish designated companies outside Ljubljana. This will largely relieve Ljubljana, particularly in those areas which we now define as most critical, such as transport, housing, business premises, public transport, child protection and other things. I believe, however, that the cities will be very happy to have some well-paid jobs in their place and will relieve Ljubljana. And I believe that the city will not object to such proposals. I also want to know how long this law will apply. Or even when Slovenia has, I suppose, three regions, i.e., the eastern, western and central regions? Will we then still have this part of the law where Ljubljana as a city is specifically co-financed and financed by the region as a regional centre? Although I will support the proposal of the law in the first reading, in particular in the desire to find a better and more comprehensive solution in order to ensure the specific needs of Ljubljana's capital, which I do not deny this function, we must not forget about other regional and urban centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. What to say, it's an interesting debate. This point also shows that patriotism and pride of Slovenia and Slovenians are at least at a very low point in Parliament. However, I am convinced that if we asked people about this in Slovenia to think positively. If the elements of Slovenian statehood are defined in our constitution, then I must say that I am proud both of the flag, of the coat of arms, of our army as well as of the capital. And that they had more respect and patriotism for this town 150 years ago. And I'm only going to tell you two, three passages from an interesting Prešeren song, and France wrote it, that no Jožek thought about it, and he replicated it. The song has an important title and is called Elegija to her cousins. And he says like this. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] No, I haven't forgotten her, just to think about which kittie to tell you. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u251	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u252	That's right, thank you very much, President, for your help. The essence of this message is that the Slovenians were more aware of the importance of the capital when it was difficult for us when we were threatened by foreign and other nations than we are aware of today. I am pleased to have studied in Ljubljana and also to have studied that in Ljubljana we have many events and events that gather and unite even Slovenia in the capital. Look, hand to heart, which one of us wouldn't be happy if the respectable Mr. Jankovic had already succeeded in building a football stadium. I am sure that at the historic competition Slovenia-Russia would certainly be too small. And, of course, the capital must do this for all of Slovenia. At the end of this week, you are all well invited as viewers or participants in the Ljubljana marathon. There too will be a whole Slovenia, more than 10,000 participants, and behind all of us will have to clean up the mountains and tons of waste and garbage that we will leave here. Also, the zoo deserves its name, we only have one thing to say about colleges, libraries, national historical galleries, operas and other sights. Before that, I heard someone from the most conscious and national-aware Slovenian party. From his speech and presentation of the position, it was understood that he did not want Ljubljana to be the capital. I don't know if maybe because it comes from some other angles, it wants it to be, say, Budapest, or maybe, say, root for Belgrade. I must say that 16 million euros for the capital is not a lot of money, especially because I agree with colleagues who all argue how badly our capital is in charge. So he obviously needs help and money. If we read that, of course, there is no arranged landfill for 30% of drinking water to be lost in Ljubljana’s water supply, then it is certainly time and right that this country and the National Assembly also do what goes for all of us, what they do and what they contribute. That is why, like all LDS Members, I will, of course, give my support to a law that solves at least some problems, but not all major cities, but, of course, we also point out that it is time for us to also go to the Law on the Financing of Communities, which will allow for coherent and equitable regional development. Let us also give our hand to the heart, on the one hand, it is true that in recent years we have imposed on the congregations a great deal of additional tasks, that problems are problems, but as far as the financing of the state to the congregations is concerned, we must say that the municipalities are getting what we belong to, that negotiations on the so-called principals are also taking place this year, that they are good, without the means being reduced, even some revenue in this area we will get, and this seems important to me. Statistics show that the capital is, of course, nominally in debt, but if we look at it realistically, the population is significantly less than any of the rural Slovenian municipalities. That's a fact. And all those who today criticise debt on average, of course, is a big difference whether it is happening, as it has been in the past in some municipalities, when loans were taken for beer, flowers and entertainment, or whether loans are taken for development projects that allow European funds to be drawn. If we want to carry out cohesion and European projects, then, of course, we are not in debt if you get two or three euros from Brussels on one euro loan, and if Slovenia and Slovenians know that the golden times for drawing on European funds from the financial perspective of 2013 are over, then it is certainly a developmental and reasonable task for the municipalities. There was also a lot of talk about Mr. Mayor, Ljubljana. I must say, most of those 90s that we are sitting in the National Assembly would have been if any of us had ever achieved as much support in the elections as the respected gentleman himself with his name as mayor or as reached his list. All public opinion polls and analyses also show that the Ljubljanaians are satisfied with their mayor, whom they elected, and so is the case. Therefore, those who come from elsewhere have no reason to doubt the correctness of their decision and their confidence. I'm sure the voters will tell their story in one year, and then we'll be able to judge and talk again about what and how. And now that all those who understand the Prešerna, which I have mentioned to conclude with him, in the elegy of their kinsmen goes, "In the seven hills there lived a wolf and a hawk, when Navport had washed the wall for hundreds of years." And the whale goes on to say, "What does not the stranger know from the city, when the mist here is home, when the road leads through where the wave of the sea is broken?" But the key is the conclusion of this elegy, which says, "Silent song! "Thou shalt not proclaim the pain of our wounds, if the shame of our death be on thee, home, my Kranjc, a faithful fast!" And this goes: whoever loves the capital also loves this country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u254	Yes, Joseph, Joseph. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u255	Mr. Györek, haven't you spoken yet? Have you spoken before?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u256	Comrade Saiowice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u257	Just a moment, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Györek, you didn't speak? Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u258	He wanted to be a bit of a pal of Saiovice, and he called me Joseph, that he didn't think anyone else had written, not Prešeren. But I must say that Prešeren was truly prophetic and unfortunately he was not alive, because if he lived today when he listened to Mr. Saiovic, he would have written a huge elegy. But he probably wrote the prophetic also, "it's a grain of weed." And Mr. Saiovic was talking about weeds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u259	Mr. Jerovšek, please. I'm really warning you. I probably shouldn't have given you a replica this time because you weren't mentioned in any of them. But I'm really warning you not to go into everyone's comment. Mr. Györek, why do you want a replica? Have you been mentioned?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u260	As a Discussant [[...]] [[Not included.]] He totally avoided naming me personally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u261	If you've identified yourself, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u262	I was the only debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u263	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u264	I was the only debater on behalf of our client. That's what it was about me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u265	Apparently, Mr. Györek. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On non-bullying speeches, the affected speeches by Mr. Saiovic are already used in the National Assembly, but here it went across the border, saying that the Slovenian National Party should not respect the capital of the Republic of Slovenia and that it should even be somewhere in Budapest, or what I know where - it crossed the rubicon. It should be aware that the majority of traitors are coming from his party, that I do not list all those who left our territory to the Croats at the time of independence. And we fight against them. And now they're talking to me about Slovenian consciousness when their mayors themselves. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u267	Mr. Györek, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u268	they do not allow the flag on the castle in the middle of the Slovenian capital. [[...]] Every city, every nation, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u269	Please, Mr. Györek, calm down. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u270	which has all these symbols of statehood, this is the flag of the Republic of Slovenia, hanging in the capital in the most visible place. [[...]] But Mr. Saiovic is obviously more at heart to have a Croatian flag hanging here, according to their members in this party, what they have not done to this country is not harm. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u271	Mr. Györek, I will have to warn you about the tone of your debate. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u272	and now on the National Party [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u273	due to the tone of your debate [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u274	Let me finish the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u275	First warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u276	and he now manifests to the National Party a lack of Slovenian consciousness. [[...]] That sounds really hurt. It's a nice expression that I won't use any other expression because I prefer to stay on the level and not provoke the replica because I can already see it holding my hand in the air. That's it, Mr. Saiovic, forward. But we can clear up such open questions somewhere else. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u277	That's rude, that's unprecedented. Mr Györek, what you have just said is an unworthy Member of this Parliament and any other Parliament. Call for clearance somewhere else [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Of course, Mr. Györek. [[...]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Saiovic, I can't give you my word because there's no replica on the replica. I would only say that if Mr. Saiovic crossed something, not the river rubicon, but the river Mura. Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I've already given my word to Mr. Trofenic. Procedurally you will receive immediately [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u278	Procedurally has the advantage. As soon as I request, you must give me your word through the Rules of Procedure. Read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u279	Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u280	Thank God. The Honourable President of the National Assembly. You insulted my colleague. You're just the first of the same, don't forget that. The first of the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u281	Give me a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u282	I'd like you to calm down. Take some Biobil and you'll be more calm and you'll be able to hold the debate with patience [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u283	Dear colleague Friend, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u284	or leave the vice president alone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u285	This is not the first time that you have spoken to the President of the National Assembly, who is in charge of holding this meeting normally within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, and that he is trying to prevent discussions when they go beyond certain borders in our common favour. [[...]] And once again, I warn you that I will not allow you to allow yourself to have such an attitude toward the President of the National Assembly. Please, peace in the hall! The word is Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Today's debate shows something that Slovenian municipalities and Slovenian citizens are not afraid to receive a quality law on the financing of municipalities. As many things as have been said here are false, inappropriate speculations and things like that, man must be appalled and I hope that I will not get this back so that everything can be said here. I have a feeling that too many colleagues and colleagues think that such matters as municipalities such as municipal funding and the like can be spoken by us all the way, and in Slovenia there is still no awareness that topics such as local self-government, regionalisation, municipal setting up, municipal financing, regional setting up, regional financing, and similar, serious topics that require consensus at the national level, if we want to resolve the issue in favour of citizens and citizens. I've already heard predictions, on the one hand and on the other hand, how I'm going to define myself. Of course, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude that the signatories are the requirements for this general debate. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u287	Mr. Györek, please give peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u288	that the signatories of the request have made this debate possible today, it is only a matter of whether this debate will produce the right result. [[...]] You have to ask yourself, why this marriage? This law is one of the answers to a situation that took place in an irresponsible manner in 2006. When it happened today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u289	Mr Jerovšek, please, you are right behind the speaker. Let him speak. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u290	When irresponsible behaviour took place, instead of improving the quality of funding through the amended law, we have actually decommissioned and centralised the system and damaged individual environments. [[...]] It is important to know that in 2006, when the old law was in force in 2006 the largest proportion of GDP in the history of Slovenia's independent state was 5.23% for the area of local self-government. Under the new law, the first year of entry into force of 2007 fell to 5.1% and that the second year of validity of the law in last financial year fell to 5.05% of GDP. This is the truth about such a singing reform that has brought Slovenian space so good. Of course, she redistributed the funds. I'm going to repeat what I've already shown, and apparently some people didn't want to hear it. In 11 municipalities, 34.1% of the Slovenian population lives. The old law recognized them as a suitable consumption of 33.1% of the total eligible consumption, a new law in force reducing this to 29.5%. In another group of municipalities where administrative units are normally established, 34.9% live; the old law before the reform granted them the necessary funds of 35.9% of all assets, the new one acknowledged the same. The other municipalities in which 31% of the Slovenian population lived were owned by 29.9% according to the old law, according to the new 34.6%. It's a massive relocation or relocation from the city halls to others, where there are no administrative units and they're not urban, so I won't misquote them. Of course, this could only be done to the detriment of the city of Ljubljana. If we previously had a system to some extent still acceptable with a questionable rate of 35% of income as our own resources to the municipalities, the new law abolished it and the income from this source is not, but is a grant to the state budget. This was therefore a step backwards in terms of the autonomy of local public finances. However, interestingly, after 2006, Ljubljana accounted for 35% of the income of €126 million, rounded up or after the actual accounts later when they were invoiced, 130 million. If the same law were in force in 2007, the Ljubljana people would fall under EUR 132 million and look at the fraction, Ljubljana recognised a new law on income with one irresponsible, non-professional, political distribution of EUR 96 million. He took Ljubljana from 131 to 95 or 96; that, of course, does not say everything. In the old system, Ljubljana was available in 2006 – 172 million, round, weak and 140 million or 32 million more in 2007. I ask which system as a system can bring such a break from 31 December to 1 January. No one! And of course, I am now talking about some kind of relieving and I do not know how good the system was, of course, consciously done, I am talking about reforming the law after the constitutional complaint or the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has been played, because conscious parameters have been chosen to the detriment of Ljubljana and other urban centres and some new ones, such as the Natura 2000 surface, have been used, beyond the logic of investment, because I do not know how to make the Natura 2000 surface, unrelated, logical, with the costs of investment. Investment costs and investment aid can depend solely on the financial potential of each municipality, normally Europe measures this by means of an index of financial power. However, we have been turning for so long, or the proponents and the actors have also been turning their formulas so that the correct political outcome has come, but with proper funding has nothing to do with it. Nothing at all. Now it is possible to illustrate this with a number of actual data on realisation and obviously, given the debate that it was, it would be a bit humorous, so for now I will not be over-applying this, except for illustrating some of the claims and opinions. Now, of course, this new law. This new law is a reaction to bad action, and there can be no good reaction to bad action. From this point of view, this marriage is bad. I am not going to support him personally, because he is not saving Ljubljana and giving the opposition the opportunity for today's debates, which have nothing to do with the serious problem of funding. Since the discussion whether the financing of a local community is appropriate in terms of color or, if you will excuse me, I will primitively say, "faco" by the mayor, they are extremely irresponsible. It is not for any mayor of any municipality, it is for citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, and the municipality as an institution which needs to be provided with adequate funding, an encouraged search for its own resources to ensure by law and by law a specific task. There was no debate about that. Lawmakers will now be surprised because, as a coalition member, no one expects to say this, which I will now state, of course, they apologize for this with a study. I'm not going to talk about the authors of the study because they're respected experts, but apparently that doesn't guarantee the proper professional basis. The first conclusion of this study, which you provide, is that Ljubljana is underfunded. That's a fact. I don't even know how difficult it is to do this because this is shown by very simple calculations or statistics. Secondly, in the proposal for additional funding, the study’s stakeholders could not measure it and, in order to professionally support it, they justified it on the average costs of the city’s municipalities. I'm sorry, it's a crime or a shame. What does the cost of the capital, which is in Ljubljana, relate to the average costs of the municipalities during the time of X, from Ptuj, Murska Sobota, Slovenj Gradca to Kopra and beyond - with nothing. Therefore, please do not resist the law that upsets needlessly and separates the National Assembly and the Slovenian public, even lazily, with such reckless ones. Ljubljana has been damaged and Ljubljana must be able to perform its functions in financial terms under normal conditions. And those who think this marriage is in Ljubljana's favor because you're giving her 16 extra million with some political acrobatics when you took her over 40, and that's questionable, according to the old system - why? Because "per capita", or otherwise, the old law of Ljubljana has not already recognised 100% of the population's average, but 98 and something, I will round to two decimals, 99%, and a new 83.3% of the average. I apologize to the representatives of the government for not being misinterpreted in this rather harsh statement that I am about to make. I even believe that this law is a diversion to initiate a debate that does not lead to a solution to a serious problem. As a coalition Member, I proposed last December that an intervention law be passed immediately, which would have been in force since 1 January in the area of community funding, but that was not followed. I am not offended by this, but I am deeply convinced that this is absolutely necessary. And I'm also predicting that if the government doesn't submit it in a short time, we're going to put it in second place because everything is ready and it's in its final stage. Because this requires a responsible and serious debate, not such politicisation. Now there's something else about the explanation, you know. There were insults here today, all in between - one, two, three. I take it personally as an insult to the explanation of the law in the introduction and the comparative solutions. The Austrians and the Austrian system are no role model. Some of us have it because the system is just as fragmented there, but that's their problem, not ours. But what you wrote about Vienna, it just doesn't hold. In Austria, I quote, "Federalism und Finazgleich" is a factor for the municipality of up to 10,000 inhabitants one third of the base or average. For municipalities from 10,000 to 20,000 one whole two-thirds. For municipalities from 20,000 to 50,000 there is a factor of two - with us Ljubljana 0.083 - and for municipalities above 50,000 and the capital of Vienna there is a factor of two whole thirds in Austria. More than twice as much as the principal if you translate into our language. And now we're here, excuse me, I'm going to skip it, we're dealing with something that gives only the possibility of politicization, but it's not going to lead to any quality solution. Another flaw. Incompatibilities of two systems in the same country for the same municipality. First of all, we do not recognise the source of the shares for the basic activity in Ljubljana, as do the other 209 municipalities. No, no, no. A grant from the state budget that we're machining in one way or another. With this law on the capital, they would suddenly be placed at a percentage. In %, less than 1%, this is very small, but from the base of income throughout Slovenia. Who can substantiately defend me from such an approach that most of the funds that Ljubljana will receive in the form of some indirect grant from the state budget for what is supposed to be linked to the capital are not, because it is not measured, but I believe that it is difficult to measure, but would give it just in relative percent, which is of course something else. Some people were talking about a problem, and I'm gonna simplify it, a letter of intent. You could say, don't joke. I understand that for some of the investments that only Ljubljana needs, no one else must reply to how much it will participate. But not in a way that the Minister and the Mayor will write a letter of intent, but this letter of intent will be the basis for budgetary spending. I'm sorry. I don't want to teach anyone. This is the only way for such a facility to come directly to the budget item and to be implemented on the basis of the state budget adopted. This is another solution that I suspect or reason to suspect that this law was written as provocation. That is why, of course, this law does not save Ljubljana. Ljubljana saves quality, and other Slovene municipalities, new law or amended law, as you wish, on the financing of municipalities that are urgently needed; and now there is philosophy here, now for Ljubljana, then for the municipalities, then we will have for those congregations, then we will have congregations where the mayor is in this party, then we will have congregations where the mayor is in that party, and then under Sotlo, and up Pa, dear people, let's be serious! [[...]] For the community is for one congregation or one city, but we will have no idea how many laws on financing, everyone will be slightly different, everyone will be written after the current political distribution of power. And of course, we cannot follow the funding laws of these irresponsible ideas that we have two representative associations, now the third is being established, everyone is under the patronage of some political option, but it does not matter what is with local self-government and responsible funding of local self-government. So, we could talk about this for 24 hours, but I know that a lot of people wouldn't listen, given the debate that it was. I say that I will not support this in Ljubljana's favour, but I will support or even introduce a law that will solve this significantly more qualitatively, not with such partial ones. I would expect that, in some elegant way, a new law on the financing of municipalities should be made and properly addressed, all the problems that are open, which are the result of some irresponsible conduct, which some of us then warned about, but in fact, the funding of the municipalities was a means of power and the sharing of some political spoil, if you will. This can't be by its own nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Today there were various debates and also speeches about arrivals in Ljubljana and so on. On this occasion, let me say that the first public Slovenian monument has also been erected in Ljubljana, you know, Valentin Vodnik, who, according to experts, opened the way for emphasising national values by depicting emerging personalities from Slovenian cultural life. This first public monument to Valentin Vodnik, Baron Janez Wykard Valvasor, as well as sculptures at the front of the Slovenian opera are the work of Aloyzi Gangle, whose 150th birthday is celebrated this year. I am proud to say, however, that Mr Aloj Gangl was born in Metlika and I can say with great satisfaction that it is also an area of culture and art, to which also the city of Ljubljana has been greatly contributed by people from other places, cities or also from different regions of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as from other cities, perhaps from the past also from the former Yugoslavia, which have contributed in any way to the development of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, even for today's debate, I think that in some, as colleagues have said before, really hurtful debates, even debates somehow get the feeling that perhaps it is not good if something is doing really well or even great if something is done differently, but perhaps not always at the wishes of all people, because it is never possible to please everyone. Let me also say that in the past year I was the initiator and organizer of the second meeting of the mayors of the European Union in Slovenia, which was just during the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, and it was a great pleasure and honour for me to have the special service of the mayor of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Municipality of Ljubljana, to receive us, the mayors of the European Union. Somehow I do not imagine mayors coming from the countries of the European Union and not visiting the capital of the country they are coming to. Therefore, I think that in the debate what the capital is and so on, it is necessary to be correct, realistic. Of course it is interesting to visit both the area of Stajerska, Gorenjska, Primorja, Koroška, wherever in Slovenia, as well as the White landscapes, but you have to be realistic that the capital is one, and this is Ljubljana. But I really liked another fact that was said today, and in fact, public praises were expressed both to the coalition and to the opposition, which we do not really experience in every debate. For example, several times when I was writing down, it was said: Ljubljana is just a construction site. Personally, this phrase associates me with something positive, to development, to progress, to work - I don't know if anyone thought negative in this direction, I apologize to him if he recognizes it, I see positive movements here. Therefore, in the debates now, whether it is the support of this law or not, I also assess and believe the mayor that, given that it is the capital, and in view of some possible past decisions, also political decisions that have been made to the detriment of the capital, that this matter should be gradually rectified. All of us, if we are watching: if any of us have health problems, we probably don't even think about finding a facility in Ljubljana. None of us think - and on one of the committees someone even told me, if I were any representative of Ljubljana - none of us then think whether Ljubljana itself as such has sufficient capacity, say, hospital care for the citizens of Ljubljana. When we talk a lot, I also see debates, thinking about building the homes of older citizens in Slovenia. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has several times now found that the greatest manna or the need for additional capacity are - somewhere other than the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, in Ljubljana. Again, obviously, everything is not ideal in Ljubljana, and not everything is the best. The capital of the Republic of Slovenia must therefore also be assisted. So let me say something at the end. I will certainly give this support myself, and I am confident, as the rest of my colleagues have already discussed this on the basis of municipal funding legislation, that it will be necessary - even today on the Committee on Local Self-Government - to say that they were positive "bombons" if we view them as citizens, citizens of individual municipalities in Slovenia, but if we are in the role of local communities, who have to provide shares and finance, as we say, "bombons" or certain needs, which are legally defined or are obligations of local communities, it is not easy. And I believe and realize that it is certainly not easy for the Municipality of Ljubljana to do so. At the very work of Mayor Zoran Jankovic, I even have the feeling that it is wrong for some people, because this man is certainly worthy of respect, because he has failed to prove himself in his work several times. And when a man is at work, as they say, we know what that word says about horse, dust, and how he smokes and dustes, and then never only boasts, there is always a negative side on the part of some. However, also hearing and not forgetting the preservation of the values of the national liberation fight, the preservation of other historical facts, including the support of sport, as was said, the Ljubljana Marathon, which will be a specific event for this end of the week and so on, as well as certain events or receptions that are also carried out by the Municipality of Ljubljana as the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, cannot be forgotten and forgotten. Personally, he also believes that, I also support the initiative, colleague Trofenik discussed this, and the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana himself, as the capital city, has given the initiative that the Community of Slovene Municipalities, the Association of Slovene Municipalities and also some kind of association of Slovenian municipalities should be united into one strong joint association or community, whatever the name of the community, on the one hand representing the needs and on the other hand the problem of local communities. I think it would be strange that the opinion of the large municipalities, the municipalities, the smallest municipalities and the capital of the Republic of Slovenia would not be taken into account here. Here we have to be realistic, including running a larger city, the larger congregations are certainly different. And when some here have thought about it, but never in life have they run any congregations, I believe it is easier to discuss as much as possible any matter in practice to try, observe and feel problems. Maybe someone knows the problem of an area, maybe, I don't know any area, maybe social, maybe less economic area or infrastructure, but in all that is happening in the development of local communities, it is certainly the City Municipality of Ljubljana that is supposed to be - and it is right that - it is also kind of the other municipalities. I'm sure he needs the capital of a stadium that will be one of the biggest, if not the biggest, and so on. That's the way it is elsewhere in the world. And let's be real, don't be offended. However, I think that Mr. Zoran Jankovic, as the current mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, will also leave an important mark in the work and development of history for the future generations of Ljubljana or the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u294	Thank you very much. When considering the law on the capital, it always opens, and I think that today it has been quite a few times to feel the issue of centralisation and decentralisation. Whatever we are talking about the capital, the question of how to treat other congregations always arises. And the question opened up to the city’s congregations, and the question opened up to the minority congregations. In short, I think it is necessary to take into account some systemic framework in this matter, how will it actually be that the city of Ljubljana is the capital, yet it is placed in some systemic framework. In fact, if I look at the law as such, the current added value of this law is currently €16 million from the state budget, which is being transferred to the City Municipality of Ljubljana. And, I'm sorry, I can't take this any differently than a fraction of the payment to support the left-wing threesome in the election. I know you've spoken differently, but I think it's the price you just have to pay right now. However, I cannot understand the lack of support for this law from a fellow Member of the Trofenics, who, I think, also said that this law is a kind of provocation. And in fact, it is probably true that if we look at it like this, because it does not solve all of these problems that we should, when we ask about the capital, about financing the capital, we should ask ourselves how it is with regard to other municipalities and other parts of Slovenia. In fact, when we talk about Ljubljana, there will be no confusion now, let's say, okay, that these 16 million are at stake. You will recall the provincial legislation which was by no means possible in the previous term in the National Assembly. According to a proposal for provincial legislation, the Municipality of Ljubljana was granted the status of its province. And if you look at these numbers, these numbers are still in the works, not 16 million euros would come to Ljubljana, but 129 million euros per year, along with the transfer of 500 employees from the state administration to solve all these problems. When we talk about discrimination to other regions, of course, we can talk because when we look at the other regions, the rest of Slovenia, of course, we also have to take into account the difference in gross domestic product that stops Ljubljana or some poor part of Slovenia. What is the unemployment rate, what are the wages, what is the development hazard index? I think Ljubljana can easily manage some problems from regions in other parts of Slovenia. But it seems that courage for, say, the establishment of landscapes that would systematically solve this framework of regionalisation that would systematically solve the financing of the task, the activities - somehow it is not the will, there is no courage, but it is the courage to prepare a special law: the Law on the Capital, the Law on the Murje. When we adopt the Law on Pomura, I am sure that there will be a region somewhere that will identify itself in all these problems and we will re-introduce the law. That's too bad. I don't understand why we can't solve these tasks with the simple establishment of landscapes. I think that the Municipality of Ljubljana has already been very well defined and resolved there, as well as sources of funding and performance of the tasks that are at the heart of the city. In doing so, we would get rid of another feeling that we now have; that it is an exception, that it may not be fair and discriminatory. We can't avoid this now with this law. If we had a system framework with established landscapes, then we measure everything with the same vats. If you allow me another question concerning the sixth paragraph of Article 5, it is also the principles of Mr Trofenik. I, too, have been confused by this way of defining projects, and I hope, given that government representatives still have time, I know they don't have to answer them, but since this is a question, it might be good to clarify how projects are implemented. This is some kind of agreement between the President of the Government and the mayor who signs the agreement, but who has the legal nature of the letter of intent. If I understand, I'm not a lawyer, but if I understand, it's a letter of intent - I don't know, it's not a contract. It's some letter about intent, about nice wishes, what you'd do. The treaty is something other than a letter of intent to me. By letter of intent, I will define the wishes I want to make and define something else in the contract. However, on the basis of this letter of intent, the new sixth paragraph will agree on funding from the state budget and the funding will be allocated to the city municipality without a call for tender. Therefore, the list of wishes becomes legally binding for the state budget and the funds are allocated to the city municipality without a call for tender. I don't get it. I really don't get it. So, what is it? These investments are carried out without invitation to tender or how? Is this without a public procurement system? So with a letter of intent between the Prime Minister and the mayor, we transfer the funds - and what? Investments go unsolicited. Yes, please. Then, dear fellow Members, who are also mayors, propose a special law as soon as possible that will allow this. In short, I may be wrong if we get an explanation, it'll be so much better. I certainly think, I certainly think, and here also colleague Trofenik very well warned about this, I have noticed that myself, this is actually a question. If, in addition to the EUR 16 million we are giving, I do not know, a letter of intent that the President of the Government will sign to the mayors for a whole bunch of investments, then these funds will have to be redeployed without a call for proposals. Now I don't know what that meant. Perhaps I am wrong, and if I am answered, perhaps some dilemma will be explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Good-bye. At this late hour, we are actually reviewing, I would say, the law on local self-government, which is really necessary for radical change and I am living in the belief that these changes will take place. This is because the law is quite outdated because in a number of cases it no longer adapts to situations on the ground. But no matter what you say, I'm sure the capital law is necessary. It may have a deadline to establish landscapes or other changes in our local self-government, but such a law is now needed. It is needed because Ljubljana is the capital of Slovenia, because the city we want to be proud of, which must be nicely arranged and which has from this title, because it is the capital, is a lot of additional tasks. Not only would I mention investment and other projects of greater importance, but, last but not least, there are countless protocol and other events that this capital must cover, and if covered in an unprofessional or superficial manner, the reputation of not only the capital or the mayor or the mayor, but also of the whole of Slovenia is questionable. That is why I think we have a broader interest, the whole society, that this thing works well, and now I wouldn't even consider whether it's Mayor Jankovic or anyone else, but whoever leads and runs this town should be an example to other mayors as well. There was also a lot of talk about the fact that Prime Minister Borut Pahor went to the city house. In my opinion, this is a bonton to be respected. When the President of the Government sets up a service - one of the partners also in this field of international cooperation and so on, not Slovenia and not only the capital - such an event is required. And now, reading to the President of the Government that he's taken such a step and connecting with no one's intentions - I would deny it. I must say that the President of the Government has been elected to Goriška and to Nova Gorica, but he has not yet been, and I am not saying that is why I am jealous because he was in the Master's Office here in Ljubljana. It was further said, the Governor for Prekmurje is coming, it's a cost. Those who speak such nonsense should ask themselves, or, if they hope to ask voters, what is the cost we, mine, your wages, the transfer of these meetings, which in many cases are indeed one of the inn discussions. I want to get away from this and I feel very bad because I am not a guy who, like my colleague Jerovšek, would scream "on the other side" and I don't know what it is when it comes to some domestic love. I would ask, Mr Jerovšek, that when you speak of "the other side," you speak of treason and I don't know what you're not looking at me. If you're sneezing, take a good look at me so I won't be offended, because you have no right to insult me literally, because on this other side I'm me and I'm not used to such discussions, they hurt me and I don't want to join them. We have different views, we have different opinions, we can present them in a cultural way, but not today, a number of times already, screaming at this side, what kind of traitors we are. Excuse me, that's exactly the way it was in the resolution yesterday and so on. We can prove that with magnetograms. There's no bad guys on this side, and there's no bad guys on that side. We are sitting Members, and with our responsible conduct we must show citizens and citizens that we are chosen by their will and that we deserve this reputation. When the President of Parliament left the Chamber, it was the behavior of his colleagues there - yes, and this, look, is not happening on our city council, and it is, I would say, a villager, never. Let's take some of this culture to heart. You're also grateful for this problem, Mure. Whatever you say is Mura. Okay, well, I'm gonna say, Mirko Brutz, I have a salary like that and what the Mura workers would say. Does anyone on the other side say that? Let's talk like that, not here in some incredibly ugly way, with ugly relationships. Well, when we meet in the hallway, we laugh at each other and we're human. I would like us to be like that tomorrow when we discuss Mura, the new minister and more. There is no reason for us to act with such incredibly ugly relations in this hall, which is such that when people come here, they feel that they have come to the cathedral and feel powerful. I would also like to comment on Mr Willy Trofenik's discussion. In many ways, I agree, and I'm sure he's very right. Municipal municipalities are deprived of funds, burdened with specific, additional tasks and so on. It is therefore imperative to amend the law on local self-government and prepare some other parameters in order for all of us to survive together. This does not mean that we will all receive more money, for this little one is just as he is, and it is not expected that even when we discuss new congregations in the coming period, we will raise our hands just as we would because we would live in the conviction that some other bag of this new congregation will receive funds. Legislation must be in this direction in order to accelerate integration. This is happening in Italy, this is happening everywhere. Or we'd have such pocket municipalities, where the mayor is really a funeral speaker, two celebrations, and that's all. That's not what I'm for. I also appreciate the work of mayors of small municipalities, I know how much they do, which, given the responsibilities of mayors in some other communities, are sometimes not comparable. In the municipality of Slovenia we are trying to solve all these problems and therefore I also appeal to the Ministry, to the government that it has, in particular, contact with the Association of Municipalities and with SOS in the preparation of this new legislation, so that the debate will be as painful as possible then here, because there is politicisation, and there has been, fortunately, not yet. So I will support this law, not because it would be an electoral payment, but in order to really get to a different organisation of this local government and then maybe this law could be put out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you very much. In one of the more confusing performances in this House, Mr Brulc has attributed to me some of the words that I have not spoken. I did point to the other party, which is true when I was thinking of either the client or the left three. But it's not true, and I don't think I'm wrong to use the word "treason" at all, "treason." But I was talking, Mr Brultz, about how proud we are of Ljubljana as the capital. From these benches, where Members of the parties coming from Slovenian independent parties sit. Because these parties are most deserving that Ljubljana is today the capital, that it is an independent Slovenia. Other of your predecessors from those benches, some of them, at the time they sat otherwise, said that the Ljubljanaers and the Slovenians would eat grass. You know. One wrote, "I will not be on the declaration of Ljubljana and Slovenia as an independent state." And recently, he ordered a media lynch. That's when he identified himself against this country. So, Mr. Brultz, listen carefully. I don't know what coffee shop you were sitting in, but this hurt. I don't know. But I didn't say anything that I wouldn't read, and it wouldn't hold. Of course, I must say that she stabbed me too and hurt me - when you mentioned this departure of the President of Parliament - his observation of the Mure crossing, not the rubicon. It's like it's the Wall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u299	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u300	Slovenian [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u301	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u302	That's what he told me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u303	Mr Jerovšek, don't blame me, this is no longer an explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u304	I'll finish it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u305	He's got nothing to do with it. [[...]] Be right!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u306	As if the Mura is a Slovenian rubicon, as if the Trianian peace given by Slovenia is something bad. I was horrified. There, I think Mr Györkos was justifiably upset. To make it clear that it is not patriotic in this way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u307	Mr Jerovšek, this has nothing to do with your debate. Be Proper [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u308	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u309	And cease with content that is not yours. [[...]] Thank you very much. A man expects correctness, and when he hears a quarter of a beautiful performance, then in the end you have to say something that doesn't go along. Mr. Friend, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u310	Thank you, Madam President. Following Mr Györek's statement on behalf of Mr Paul Ganttar, the President, the President of the National Assembly, allowed himself to be insulted harshly by our Member. He said, "That's all I'd say. If Mr. Saiovic has crossed anything, it is not the river rubicon, but the river Mura. Thank you very much, Mr. Villa Trofenik has the floor." Before that, allow me to finish, Madam President. Would you excuse me? Earlier, Mr Saiovic had very insultingly spoken about our party, of course also about the debater, stating that Mr Györek was coming from Budapest and that he wanted the capital to be better Belgrade. Since Mr President has exceeded the entire limit of good taste, we request a public apology. We will also make a written request, but if this is not done in the manner stated, we will seek justice in court for regret. I mean, what you can afford first among the same isn't delicious and it's not worth any more debate. But we expect an apology, Sir Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u311	Mr. Friend, thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal. And your debate has been recorded. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u312	My procedural proposal is to press the position of the national party's delegation's presentation and also to print my speech and compare [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u313	Mr. Saiovic, the whole debate is in a magnetogram, which is published in Lotus Notees. You, me, and everyone else can read it. Please do not make proposals that are not justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll attach it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u315	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u316	I'll attach it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u317	Thank you very much. May I give the floor to Mr. Miran Györek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. You're surprised. I can see you're routine in running this high choir as well as the other two vice presidents. When you are in charge of the National Assembly, when Mr Klavora is chaired by the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjat, the level of debate in the National Assembly never falls to such a low level as it is led by Mr President. And that's why I suggested earlier to the leader of the SD Group that you go to the chair, because otherwise this debate really doesn't come anywhere. The provocations of gentlemen [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u319	Mr Györkos [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u320	Sauvage [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u321	Mr Györkos, I [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u322	No, again, Györkös [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u323	Please remain within the point. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u324	Me [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u325	The agenda, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u326	I will not comment because they are recorded in the magnetogram, the position of the Slovenian National Party, which I submitted, is also recorded in the magnetogram. You can read my or our point of view, and if there is anything offensive there, in that position, how you then reacted abusively to our position, please kindly, this is also understood by a semi-written man from the magnetogram, Mr. Saiovic. And the way you behaved today, so, in this way, even the most primitive people do not behave, extremely insulting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u327	Mr Györek, may I ask you to remain in the dark or stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u328	No, because my friend Friend said that we would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u329	Well, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u330	Continue [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u331	May I conclude that you have stopped your discussion?Oh, my God! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u332	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u333	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u335	The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Thus, the capital law, i.e. Ljubljana, and the parallel treatment of the Pomur law are proof that in Slovenia we have missed the formation or establishment of a second level of local self-government, i.e. the establishment of regions or, if you want, landscapes. Many words have been said on the topic of regionalisation, but the fact is that in the case of the regions already established today we would have instruments and a system that could solve all the problems that we are witnessing in Ljubljana and in Pomurje and elsewhere. For example, in the Slovenian Mountains, in Koroška, in Haloza, in the White Landscape and elsewhere. I can see it myself. [[...]] [[The riots in the parliamentary benches.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u337	Mr. Crane, I beg you. If you have anything to talk about, let's finish this session now. Mr. Zerjav, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u338	I see the project of the regions in terms of the landscapes as the possibility that the regions that are the most problematic are developing faster, but at the same time not to block or stop the pace of development in the most developed regions, so neither does the city of Ljubljana. I'm afraid we're not going to solve this with the foretold three regions. So we don't have any provinces, so we don't have an instrument, and we're dealing with this in a partial and non-systematic way. This law raises quite a few questions, and above all, the following is crucial to me. Which functions or, if you want, duties, according to the law, Ljubljana and other municipalities, such as Maribor, Celje or others, do not have them. So, what functions does the Municipality of Ljubljana have and do not have? According to my information - none! So it's primarily a way to resolve the pre-election promises to the Ljubljana mayor and nothing else. The question is whether this is the case at this time of crisis, when it is necessary to tighten this belt to the end in place and justifiable. I do not think so, especially because in many parts of Slovenia, the provinces are literally falling apart. In addition, a number of matters need to be highlighted to illustrate the situation after Slovenia. Maribor has not received from regional development projects for more than a year, despite already signed contracts, or the euro, even though it should have been obtained in accordance with the contracts. Why doesn't he get it? Is there also a policy in this area and does not get this money because the mayor is a member of the Slovenian People's Party and should therefore be torn down because local elections are coming. Clearly, it is impossible to get over the fact that this mayor has been given the wrong mayor at the last local elections. I wonder why such duplicity. Why? Why does Maribor have to hire loans to bridge these liquidity problems arising from already signed contracts because of this problem? Another time. Financing of the city of Ljubljana is successful in many areas, for example in the area of higher education and the last case of selection of centres of excellence. Three centres of excellence were awarded to the Institute of Chemistry of Ljubljana, three centres of the Institute Jožef Stefan Ljubljana, and two centres of excellence of the University of Ljubljana. Not a single centre of excellence at the University of Maribor, not a single centre of excellence at the University of Primorska. Why is that? I don't know. However, I believe that both the University of Maribor and Primorska are certainly not so bad that they have fallen out of all combinations, as they are called. As far as European calls are concerned, the University of Ljubljana received 29% of the funds, the Institute of Josef Stefan 20, the Institute of Chemistry of Ljubljana 6%, the University of Maribor 6%, Primorska 2% and all others 36%. In doing so, I do not wish to say that the Ljubljanaers do not belong to this fund. I'm sure they deserve it. Other universities deserve it, too. However, we do well to know this when it comes to deciding on this law. Today and tomorrow we will probably also discuss water supply in Pomure. We are moving this project into the budget, from the budget, into the law, from the law, and so on, and it is sad, but whatever the case is, we are turning the issue that all Pomurkas and Pomurci do not have healthy drinking water today. That's what you need to know. Social transfers, which will increase because there has been a significant increase in unemployment in some regions, will, for example, increase to EUR 30 million in the case of Pomurje after some mayoral calculations. These are social transfers that the local communities or municipalities will have to carry out. We need to know that, too. All these facts, thank God that this problem in the city of Ljubljana is not so expressed. I wish it hadn't happened. But all these facts must be taken into account when making decisions in this law and, above all, be aware of them. The capital of Ljubljana must certainly have the right status as the capital. It is also for the capital to be financed in the spirit of coherent regional development. However, I see this coherent regional development as a rapid development of the developing problem regions, but not at the expense of hindering the development of the city of Ljubljana and the developed regions. And in the end, a few more numbers. Today, many numbers have been listed, and I would add a few more of my own to these various statistics. I'm talking about the budgets of some urban municipalities per capita. According to the data collected today, the city of Ljubljana will have a budget of €1,170 per capita, the city of Maribor €890 per capita, the city of Celje €909 per capita, the city of Murska Sobota €1,016 per capita and Lendava, which is not a city municipality, €1,049 per capita. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The last panellists have indeed proved that there was a huge mistake, that the regionalisation process did not continue and that those who voted against it at the time had made a mistake. Okay, what's going on is. Today, we had a lot of emotional debate about who's more right and who loves something more. You who are from Ljubljana have explained to us that you love your city, Ljubljana. I say that you are right and that it is good that you love your place and I fully understand you and also respect such thinking. But we, who are not from Ljubljana, have nothing against Ljubljana, and we like it as a capital. You're probably like the capital and probably also like the city you live in. Allow us, who are not from Ljubljana, to love our place where we live next to the capital. I am alone from Slovenian Konjice and, in addition to loving Ljubljana as the capital of the country, I also love Slovenian Horsemen. Let me, in addition to loving my place, do something for it and make sure that our places and people in my places are also developing. We also have our right to do that. We have the right to equal development and that we are also striving for resources, because there is no means of development. Like you, who are from Ljubljana, are working towards the development of Ljubljana. The place where I come from, from Slovenian Horsemen - we are aware there that we will never have a university and such conditions, but let for the university for which the money is paid by the whole of Slovenia, because we will not have it, but maybe we have some meter of road anymore. I say this because there has been a debate in this direction that you want, you take Ljubljana and Ljubljana still has no paved road, and all those places somewhere on the edge. It's not like that. But we all give for, say, central institutions like, say, the university, the whole of Slovenia, and we shouldn't get anything for that. Maybe we can have a right to one foot more of the road. I'll put it in cartoons, of course. Where I come from, of course, we will never have the Clinical Center and we will not be looking for it. But we also contribute to the clinical center, and that's good. So let's say we have maybe a meter more of a sidewalk. And less is allowed. And this dilemma that something has been taken from someone and now it's given to someone, I'm sure it's fake. That's probably not how we're gonna get anywhere. The question of some starting points is raised. Now I will not insist on taking earlier remote places, and the countryside, and everything has been concentrated in Ljubljana. I'm not gonna say that. But you can't say that we're going to get some more bit of asphalt somewhere behind our backs, and we're going to deprive Ljubljana, I don't know what. If we think like that, then we probably won't come anywhere. Not like that. We'll probably have to agree and find some agreement, and this consensus probably won't come with some kind of intervention law, some kind of law after the handball procedure, where we'll tell someone when we tell him we took away how many millions, and now we've given it. And I agree with those who say, this is now, let's say, the first such case, tomorrow we're going to deal with another case that has another historical fact. Where does it say that next week no third person will appear, who will also rightly demand a special marriage for himself, or next week or next month the fourth? Surely, if it is true of one, why should it not be true of the other? In this way, I want to say that we are probably not going anywhere in this way and we are really going to have to agree, and the approach to regionalisation was probably the right one. There the capital was granted its status throughout Slovenia and no one could say that we gave anyone an exception. Perhaps no one objected to the fact that the capital was like some independent province in such a concept. Now that we are dealing with only the capital, there are a lot of concerns, a lot of thoughts that we have been deprived of. This may not be justified, but you can come to that conclusion if we just pull one out and write the law for one. Now, if this law is to be passed, we will probably come into the case as we were, I think four years ago when we just started to file laws for the provinces. First it was this country, then it was the other one, and then it was the third one, and the fourth one, and the fifth one, and the sixth one, there was a bunch of landscapes. And now I ask you, didn't we all have the right to file a marriage for our country? I'm sure. That's the only way we're not going anywhere. It is necessary to resolve conceptually, together and the proposal for regionalisation at the end of the previous term is likely to have led to something, of course we could have fixed it a little differently or whatever, but the concept was the right one. Now we are back to the start of the regionalisation process. These are facts, and when we talk about the Ljubljana Act, I want Ljubljana to develop even faster and that it can be an even bigger site. Who's got a problem with that? However, not on this account that, say, the periphery or the place where I come from, but my colleagues, that they will now be deprived, because it is clear that Ljubljana will now receive someone else's account because it has previously gone into reverse procedure. Probably taking it from the left pocket to the right and then back to the left won't lead anywhere. It's not a good concept, it's wrong. Let me get this straight. As I said, in Ljubljana we certainly have institutions that are all state-owned, that is, for the whole of Slovenia or, well, maybe we have two such institutions, but Ljubljana is certainly the center of some institutions. And we all pay for these institutions to work. That's right. But now you must understand who you are from Ljubljana, that if we are all paying for these institutions to be able to finance them, at least allow us to be in places outside Ljubljana where we do not have a university where we do not have a Clinical Center, where there are no jobs or fewer than there are in Ljubljana, because they are also public services, so that at least we will have a solid road so that we can get to Ljubljana to work. And then when we get back in the evening, we don't come into the darkness, and we say, "Now we've come to God behind us." We work in a capital where life is as normal as it is, but when we come back from the services that are the most important in the capital tonight, we come, as we call it, to God behind us. This probably does not lead the country to a higher level, well, phrase, European level. It is therefore necessary to find a common solution. Therefore, jumping with one law for one province, for example, what Ljubljana is, is partially not good. And we will probably have to go back to the beginning and think about Slovenia as a whole, about regional development, that Slovenia will develop regionally, the whole of Slovenia, not just partially, in parts. That is why I have a bitter taste in this law, even though I know that Ljubljana is in need of funds, it has a bitter taste because it is being partially resolved. And I'm not in favour of such a partial solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u342	Your Honor! The main problem is anti-urban policy in this country, which we have been developing for a long time, where small municipalities benefit from large urban centres. This is the main problem of today's debate. Unfortunately, in the past, we have decided on a model that has not produced the best possible effects in order to ensure that development is consistent in an effective manner. And that does not mean that anyone is against harmonious development, but that we have been betting on the wrong horse in programming this harmonious development. In this country, we need to establish a model that will concentrate development around strong urban centres and the development of these centres will also raise the rear areas around these centres. It is well known that I come from Maribor and would probably expect me today to hit the table and scream how I will not support this law for Ljubljana. Well, I'm not going to do that today because Maribor and Ljubljana are in the same boat of this problem. Maribor is also affected. I could, however, prove to you long and wide, but unfortunately I do not have this time, why he is even more affected by historical, economic, social and other circumstances than Ljubljana. I must say, I met with this law a few months ago, and then we had some serious substantive discussions about this marriage. I will support this law, even though I share the view that it is an extra-systemic measure that solves part of the problem, which we find at least in Maribor and perhaps in Celje and other major regional centres. However, I will support this because in these discussions we have aligned our view of this issue, which clearly shows that we need a new law in this country, and this is the law on the financing of the municipalities, which is to solve the problem of Ljubljana and Maribor, as well as anyone else. I believe that by such a law we will then be able to delete from the Main City Act those provisions that we are trying to enforce in the financial work today. And not least because I have fought here in the past months to support the major strategic projects of Maribor, such as the European Capital of Culture and the University, and to continue the economic restructuring of Maribor - and remember that Maribor once was in its economic and social dimension, but that does not mean that it does not deserve the special developmental attention of the country, that after 10 years it does not become a major social bomb again. We have a lot of problems, but we have a lot of ideas about how to dig out of these problems and make the Maribor economy more competitive and the community more socially connected. And it is because we have also received these support from our Ljubljana colleagues, and because we hope to continue this support when Maribor is also talking about big and important things, that I will count this gentlemen's agreement between us and today I will support this marriage. You may say that I am naive, but I believe that they have also been assured by people who have long been in politics and whom I consider to be an example myself and I know that they will not disappoint us in this expectation of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will also support this law myself, because I must say that I am proud of our capital and I would like this capital to develop even better and faster with infrastructure and with all that it needs and what every major city has in its bras. Surely everyone is most proud of the place he lives in. Thank God, because we're all patriots and even in a narrow territory, as I like Koper, someone else has Maribor, my colleague Breda Isolo and so on. However, the things that sometimes need to be overcome and found, I believe, are the following: foreign ambassadors, foreign statesmen, come to the capital from all other countries, all winds, such and different. People from all over the world are studying in our town. Our city must be developed in such a way that it will be set aside by all other countries and that we will be proud of this place. If this is the law, then this law should be one of the sources. I'm sure this money goes well. I won't praise Mr. Jankovic. I will only say that the support given to him by citizens or citizens of the Ljubljana Municipality tells everything. He says a lot because he has received very much support and it would be difficult for all these people to deny Mr Jankovic the right to develop his projects, which are ultimately certified in the municipal world and which are so far successful and well managed. So there is no reason to politicize, no reason to compare what someone else will get. When we talk about other things, we'll just talk about other things. Today we are talking about whether the Ljubljana people will use this law to make the necessary resources necessary for the faster development of this city. I'm also sure that, look, a lot of things have happened in the past, I'm sure. However, with what they have in mind today in Ljubljana until the end of this term and beyond, I believe, because I hope that the good mayors are not only thinking about their mandate, I am sure, and once again I say that the money that we will give goes into good hands, the money goes to those who will be able to elevate it and with it to meet the needs of all of us who live here, either temporarily or permanently, all those who live and work in Ljubljana and, as I said, to all of our citizens who must feel and be proud of their capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u346	It's not on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u347	Just a minute. Mr. Crossman, turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u348	It's awesome. [[Well, now it's all gone.]] We are discussing the law on the capital, I will support it, we are not discussing the current, future and past mayors, but how the law governs those tasks that the capital needs. [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] have for your country. [[...]] If we talked about it, we'd find consensus faster and use less harsh, hurtful words and slander. Regrettably, the level of debate [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u350	As expected, it happened. Many thought that this was an opportunity to say everything about what was wrong in Ljubljana and what would be better if someone else were to mayor. But once again, as is the case today, at least several times that this is the law for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for other residents and for all those who come to Ljubljana. Everyone must have, every country and every citizen and citizen, their capital and as we have tried to settle it, we believe that it is right. There is nothing taken from anyone and there will be no municipality or city center elsewhere in Slovenia. On the contrary! We can all get it, and I believe it's [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a meaningful law to support. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Franz Bogovich. [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For a little while. A few words were said about regionalism, and if the concept of landscapes, as proposed by the previous government, were to be adopted, most of the problems that bind to Ljubljana, as well as other areas that have been solved. I have been very actively involved in the discussions around the regions in the previous term. I also met several times or met with Minister Zhagar. I have to say very clearly, as I have said many times before, that the project was initially relatively good, that it was seriously pawned and that at some point I even believed that we would be able to bring it to its end. However, one of our advice and guidance has never been followed, and it is impossible to discuss the functions and competences of the provinces without discussing the territorial organisation of the provinces at the same time. These two matters were separate, and this led to what had occurred. We had a province in the end, for example, one of the variants of Ljubljana's province, limited to the current Ljubljana Municipality and the promised province around it. First it's complete, then it's north and then it's even south. If this had happened, if we had 14 provinces and such a victory, which is contrary to everything that is in place in regional theory, this would only have been a blow to Ljubljana. Cut off, restricted, without its natural backrest, without an influential area and natural backrest. It is therefore right that this regionalisation has fallen. I hope it gets better. Such regionalisation would only destroy the city of Ljubljana. As far as this law is concerned, as a Member of Ljubljana, I will be very frank, and I will say that this law does not impress me. Not to impress me and, of course, to think that it would be good if this problem, which Ljubljana has, were solved by the Law on the Financing of Communities, with changes, and I hope that this will also be done. But that this marriage has taken place, but it is clear. This is the result of the systematic anti-urban policy of a city, not just Ljubljana, of an enemy relationship expressed throughout the four years of the previous mandate. In all possible ways, it has tried to weaken the power of urban centres, but most of all Ljubljana. And the result of a number of legislative changes was just this. And after all, also in organisations like it was, which was anti-urban and anti-urban and against some of the natural processes that are taking place in this space. Of course, I think that this financial base of this law is 16 million, of course something, but it would be better if we could solve it in some other way, with the Law on the Financing of the Communities, not that we are now putting ourselves in the teeth of Slovenia and listening to the continuation of such anti-urban and anti-urban debates as we are hearing today. Of course, I will support the law, because it's still better than nothing. At the same time, I think the only path leading to the organisation of local self-government is to increase the financial autonomy of municipalities and municipal resources. At that time, we will see immediately which congregations are capable of life and which they do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u353	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u354	Thank you very much. We have the Main City Act, we have it since 2004, the ratios are regulated in it. What we have on the table today is the payment of Mr Jankovic's pre-election services to the left troika. The services that were given before the elections and the promises made to Mr Jankovic by the left troika and Mr Pahor in this regard. Today we have also heard many debates on patriotism, about who loves Ljubljana more, about who is prouder of it. These are discussions that have nothing to do with this amendment of the law that we now have on the table, which is also non-systemic, which is inadequate, which also causes unrest in other municipalities, and above all, it is unsystematic that money can be shared without a call for tender, on the basis of an agreement, by letters of intent, and that there is no financial scope to be defined in this part. The 16 million that are defined is only one part of this story. The question is, is it really a few million euros what Ljubljana needs? Is this really the question that the National Assembly is supposed to be discussing today, we have been deciding for a few hours today. I don't know how you guys talked about this in other parties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have dedicated ourselves to this subject as far as Ljubljana is concerned. At the 9th Congress on 9 May this year, we adopted a resolution on the capital, entitled "The capital is a symbol of statehood". And there are some starting points that have made the adoption of conclusions in eleven or ten points, which we believe would be right to enforce them in one way or another. However, this is not recorded in these changes to the law that we now have on the table. One part of what we could arrange could be arranged through the changes in the law we have today on the table. One part of what could be arranged could be regulated through a change in legislation in the area of landscapes or regionalisation. And if these solutions, one or the other, had been adopted in the previous term, a large part of the problems would have been eliminated. There are a lot of things that concern both urban and regional transport strategies, respect for the purpose of legislation in the area of space regulation and spatial planning, guidance in the Ljubljana development plan, which will be based on what the widest interested public will say and which will cover all those who live or participate in this Ljubljana. All this, however, will not save these few million euros, with respect. The few million euros you spend on these changes in the law will only slightly reduce the enormous budget hole created by Mr Jankovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Mrs. Meta Vese Valentinič, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u356	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! After this debt from the comprehensive debate, I understand a little bit more why it took almost 9 years in Slovenia to reach the Main City Act. Of course, I can see now that we are far from any consensus or understanding of the capital, as we understand it and as we have already laid down the law that was passed in 2004, which we today want to amend so that there will be a consistent law. That there would be a marriage that would have some effect. I also understand more now why the law that was passed in 2004 was so almost a toothless animal. None of this law was due to its lack of provisions which could produce actual effects and some binding arrangements. The reasons, of course, have been given through changes, through monitoring events in Ljubljana in those years since the law was adopted. In view of all that has happened with funding during this period, and in fact we have come with an analysis that we have entrusted to experts, to the results that have shown that in the part that touches the function of the capital, the capital of Ljubljana, it is only damaged or has less resources than it should have, following the principle of cohesion. She had to get, of course, from the country, because the capital, the capital, these tasks, which follow from this function, are those where the state, city and state interest meet directly. The debate has repeatedly said a number of things, which also stems from the material attached to the amendment of the law, so that it does not repeat all the data, to some things, I think, but I should be warned. First thing. Today we are not talking about the financing of the Ljubljana Municipality, about the financing of its tasks, but we are talking only about the capital of Ljubljana. That is why I think it is very important to be aware that despite all this, there is a distinction between Ljubljana, which is in the context of all cities in Slovenia, the municipalities, and Ljubljana, which is the capital. The tasks or commitments of the city of Ljubljana in the area of which I speak are set out in the basic law. When experts, along with those who have been monitoring these areas for years and years, have identified parameters that will lead to an objective result that will follow what we want, namely, the capital to design financially, taking into account the revenue from this title and the expenditure or costs of this title. While some highly doubt the correctness and expertise of this study, we can say that we trusted those experts who came to these numbers and relationships that we then incorporated into the law. As to how many other congregations are now affected by this, how many other congregations will receive less, of course, nothing. The financing of other municipalities is not changing and remains the same as this 0.73% of income is the amount of revenue, as far as the revenue side in the national budget is reduced. As for the relationship to other cities or congregations, I would say so. This law provides in its Article 9 that it shall apply mutatis mutandis even when the State of its functions or any functions which we are talking about here in the case of the city of Ljubljana as the capital, if they are exercised in any other municipality, the provisions of this Act shall apply mutatis mutandis. I think that there can be a lot of municipalities or cities, if there are such activities, of course in the exact same situation as the city of Ljubljana in this case. As Ljubljana as an administrative centre, as a centre, of course also the centre of all migration flows, this can also be questionable. Because as the capital here, we know this, most of the state authorities, there are actually a lot of public servants, civil servants who go to Ljubljana on a daily basis. And for these 100,000 people, however, infrastructure must also be provided in Ljubljana. Everyone's got to be able to get to a doctor or something. These are also moments that indicate that the state center, the capital, may be burdened against other cities in spite of everything else. This analysis has also shown this. There has been a lot of talk about an agreement, which in the form of a letter of intent already provided for in the basic law. The letter of intent, of course, has legal status as a bond, such as offers, and is binding. Within this agreement, there will be many things that may have been said in these debates, that it is not specified, that much will still be determined in this agreement. As regards investments or the provisions of Article 6a, this is the case. Firstly, these are investments that must be included in the development agenda plans. Secondly, it is only to exclude Article 24a from the Law on the Financing of municipalities, which states that the direct budgetary user, in this case it is mainly the Ministry, to determine by its own criteria how much a project is financed in a municipality, this is something else. This is a partnership in investment, in which both partners are involved with their interests in different relationships. Therefore, there is also the possibility of negotiating or agreeing how much is actually an investment, which is placed in all the necessary documents, as far as both partners are concerned. And from here on out, the choice of the contractor, the implementation of this investment, all of this runs by legal procedures, following the tendering of the contractor. So we cannot talk here about the fact that money is just an untransparent day for the congregation, which can then be freely available to it. These things will, of course, always be perfectly and precisely regulated in the agreement. And I'm done. There was a great deal of speech, and I also understand why, on problems at the regional level, problems in the field of the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Community Financing. This local government, in particular the Law on Local Self-Government with all its opinions, has been official so far, I think 36 times has already been changed, certainly needs some very serious opinion. It's also the Law on Community Financing. However, the basis for the changes that I hope will nevertheless be such as to achieve a high level of consensus in Parliament, but it is necessary to know that analytical data are very important. The government is now preparing a very thorough and multi-layered analysis of what is happening at the level of local self-government, which is said to be at the level of functioning of the municipalities from all aspects, and from here on out we can start building either new legislation in these areas or, of course, novelties of these laws. It is clear, of course, that everything that binds to local self-government, including the provinces, has an interaction with all laws, but I think, and I would end up with the fact that the Main City Act is likely to follow the example of other countries, though at least in comparative material, in a material where we have international comparisons we have seen that the capital is being treated separately. I hope that we too will remain in this and that this capital, which is truly the capital of all citizens and citizens, will be further developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u357	Thank you very much. All those of you who wanted it, you've got your word. I'm asking because it's 14 and 50 minutes. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening time for an application. Three reported. Everyone has four minutes. Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u358	Four minutes will be too much. But I would just like to mention, when I was discussing these relations here between us, our colleague went back to his senses and said, "What inn did I sit in when it was bad?" I would ask, "What ditch did he lie drunk in when it was bad?" That kind of dialogue doesn't lead anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u360	Thank you very much. At the end of this day, it seems to me that interesting debates, I would just like to say that I am very moved when I heard almost all the mayors of these government parties are convinced that Mr Jankovic needs to be helped out of money problems. That Mr Jankovic is practically the only one with financial problems, but in their municipalities everything is fine, they have no problems. The member from Zasavje also sees more problems in Ljubljana than in Zasavje. And a colleague of the mayor of Metlika said she was sure that Mr Jankovic would leave an important mark. I am sure he will leave an important mark on the Slovenian budget. He has already left it, and perhaps this seal will help so badly that we will once again rehabilitate the Slovenian banks. For this circle of people who leave seals is practically becoming more and more visible. There are more and more people in this circle who have taken unfunded loans. And here, in a different way, it is happening in this debt of the city of Ljubljana, the same thing. However, if you think that the only problem in Slovenia is the housing that someone has built, it has been promised that they will buy from the budget, but now it is a little less money, then choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u362	The entire debate today, I must also say by the representative of the Government, was based on the sub-menu that the state, the Government of Ljubljana, is somewhat obliged to lose something in the past, if Ljubljana has lost something in the past. Remember the discussions in 2007 when the previous government was accused of taking something away from Ljubljana. We've already heard today that it's not true. The Constitutional Court ruled on this and unanimously ruled that it did not. And if Mr Jankovic has any claim to the government, to the state, they are basically unfounded. If that holds true, then I will ask you why we do not have a solution on the table today for the other three congregations that challenged this matter, Trzin, Log-Dragomer and the congregation Šempeter-Vrtojba. All four of them were on this submenu. However, on 16 February, when this visit was made by the President of the Government in Ljubljana, we read [[Peanuts/cobnuts]] "The MOL money-recovery agreement is not yet in place." And then these commitments, how the Mixed Commissions will be established, how they will regulate it and how they will manage it by April 4th and so on. Because of this law, it is not possible to support it in the way it is conceived and is on the table today. That's one reason. The second reason is that it is not true that there are known financial consequences. Each year, on the basis of an agreement, it will be determined which projects and at what level they will co-finance from the municipal and state budgets. Not even a percentage of co-financing is determined, let alone volume. Only that portion of 0.73% of the additional income is fixed and therefore amounts to around €15 to 16 million for the following year. This is a completely non-systemic approach, introducing inequality in the field of local self-government, is also an unconstitutional approach and does not solve what is supposed to be regulated by the Main City Act, which was adopted in 2004. We all agree that the capital is according to its position, that it has a specific status and that therefore certain matters must also be regulated in accordance with this specificity. And these matters are regulated by the 2004 law. As long as the government's ambition was to upgrade, great, we agree, but not in this way. This way, which is here on the table today, does not mean that there is no improvement in the substantive solutions. Since Ljubljana has certain problems, it must solve them according to a long-term vision. One of these problems could also be solved if the implementation of provincial legislation were to take place when certain tasks in accordance with this principle of subsidiarity were taken over. We also believe that it would be good to adopt a national strategy for urban and regional transport, through which adequate budgetary resources would also be provided to subsidise the most environmentally acceptable forms of public transport. This is certainly one of the problems that Ljubljana alone will not be able to solve, but it must be solved in cooperation, in such a way that it will be transparent and will include those resources that are already available, but we do not know how to use them properly. I am thinking mainly of European resources. We believe that the Law on the Local Self-Government should be amended in such a way that the fourth communities in the area of the capital will have a greater opportunity to act autonomously in their areas, of course under the assumption of regionalisation, and that environmental infrastructure and social projects of the capital should be integrated into the European funding systems schemes. Here we see this content and this added value, which could be implied and adopted in this National Assembly through appropriate legal solutions. That's the kind of law we'd support. I'm afraid we can't do what we have on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u363	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided tomorrow, Thursday, 22 October 2009, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - First of all, it is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. State Secretary Mag. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act have a fundamental objective and a starting point of transparency, legal certainty, and simplification of the tax procedure, as well as harmonisation of the legal text with the European legal order. We expect that the addition of the law will make an important contribution to reducing administrative burdens and improve the attitude of taxpayers towards their obligations under the law. The main additions and amendments to the law are as follows: an extension of the data set designated as tax confidentiality for tax purposes for other purposes. This is a case where the Tax Administration may make information available to the other authority for the purposes where this is explicitly laid down by another law. As an example, I cite, say, the Public Procurement Act. The law lays down the liability of persons who manage the assets of a natural person who is declared missing or incapable of doing so and the liability of the person who manages the property of the deceased until the acquisition of the property by the legal successor. So far, these issues have not been sufficiently regulated in the law, so as you know from the tax debt report, there are not small amounts of irrevocable debt because individuals have died or are missing, while tax debts remain, even though property remains behind them. The law or amendments and additions to the law are more specifically governed by the obligation to pay the tax evasion in the case of certain transactions that have begun recently and are the result of the development of financial markets. As an example, let's say transactions related to the introduction of fiduciary accounts. European legislation and foreign legislation also follow such or similar arrangements in the field of tax obligations. The proposal also provides for further conditions and an update with the rate or write-off of income for residents who received income from the employment relationship in Austria with the Austrian employer between 2005 and 2008. Probably all of you know the situation of the so-called "Apaca initiative" when the Government adopted in 2007 the conclusion that these taxpayers do not have to pay the income advance and also the income bill for the years 2005 to 2008, as a result of which a relatively large tax debt is attributable to the fact that tax decisions still need to be issued, since the signing of the convention with Austria, which would settle this issue in the promised manner of the Government, has not occurred. The Income Act, which you will continue to deal with, deals specifically with this issue, and this law regulates the write-off of the resulting tax debt because we estimate that this debt has occurred because of circumstances other than those on the part of the taxpayers. Furthermore, the law provides for a case of termination of the tax procedure where investigations are required in other countries of the European Union and the data exchange authorities to determine the actual situation. Time is reduced for the normal service of tax documents or documents from 20 to 15 days. A new reason for recovery is included, the purpose of which is to remedy the irregularities in the assessment of the tax. There is an extension of the limitation period and some other features in the tax procedure itself, which, according to our opinion, improve the process itself. I estimate it's a law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u365	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u366	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good evening, secretary of state and coworkers! The adoption of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Law requires the need to amend certain solutions, based on the knowledge of the implementation of the current law and tax system, the proposals of the professional public and the taxpayers. The amendments will also achieve greater transparency of law, legal certainty and simplification of the tax procedure. I assume that changes will also stimulate taxpayers to voluntarily fulfil their tax obligations. The Tax Procedure Act is also being amended as a result of changes to the European acquis. Amendments to the law shall be governed by a specific case of termination of the tax procedure where, in view of the determination of the actual situation, an inquiry is to be carried out with the competent authorities of other Member States and with the competent authorities for the exchange of information. The bill also sets out a new reason for recovery. The purpose of this exceptional remedy is to remedy the irregularities in the assessment of the tax even after the finality of the decision. In this way, the principle of legality and the principle of legal protection of parties, which ensures the inadmissibility of specific legal relations, shall be balanced. The tax authority may reopen the procedure within six months of the completion of the provision. The new reason for the renewal relates to the fact that the incorrect tax assessment is due to errors caused by the use of an information system which has not applied or correctly applied all the data necessary to determine the tax liability. The proposed amendment relating to the payment of interest on the payment of the tax under Article 97 shall be made in respect of late interest paid when the tax authority does not pay back excessively paid or unjustifiablely paid late interest within the statutory time limits for reimbursement of the tax. It's about protecting taxpayers. The Tax Procedure Act, as a general law governing offences for the limitation of offences, provides for a two-year period and allows for a different regulation in a special law. The proposed amendment thus extends the deadline for the expiry of procedures in the event of particularly serious tax offences, from two years to three years. We estimate that this is mainly in order to reduce the number of those who wanted to avoid tax obligations towards the country. The question is whether this deadline is long enough and could be extended for another year, all in order to cover all taxpayers to pay taxes and reduce the number of those who wish to avoid this obligation in one way or another. The bill introduces a novelty that allows the payment of the tax debt even after the limitation, if the tax debt is secured by mortgage and if, before the expiry of the limitation right of recovery, an application for enforcement is made for real estate, all in order to pay the compulsory taxes. The law leaves the mode of payment of the debt with the proposed enforcement to the tax authority, as such sales are intended to achieve the most favourable price rather than possibly speculative purchases. In this way, the taxable person is insured, as is the person who is to receive the tax paid. If the taxable person does not receive the informational calculation by 15 June of the current year, he must submit a forecast indicating the information necessary for the tax assessment by 31 July. In this case, it is considered that the IT calculation was not served and therefore never became a decision. The taxable person is obliged to verify the correctness of the data in the IT calculation. If he finds that you are the only one who is not correct or perfect, he must lodge an objection. The obligation applies in cases where income data are too high, even if they are not shown or are too low. Where a taxable person lodges a declaration or objects to an informational calculation received, the tax authority shall issue a new decision on the basis of its data and the data of the taxable person. It is also newly stipulated that the taxable person may send to the tax authority information on the application of tax reliefs, for example, on dependent family members, by 5 February of the current year. The proposal defines the concept and content of the term "tax payer". The tax payer shall also be regarded as the manager of a multi-entity building who receives income for the account of the building’s floor owners. This will result in an administrative burden on the level-holders, since, according to the new level-holders, they will not be obliged to issue specific forecasts for the assessment of the income advance from the renting of the property even if the joint premises with the intervention of the manager of the multi-entity building were leased to tenants who are natural persons. This Article provides, inter alia, that a taxable person is to be regarded as a person who, for a foreign account, receives income from intangible financial instruments from which a tax deduction is calculated, withdrawn and paid in accordance with this Law and the Tax Law. The law specifies the tax procedure in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of an economic company or taxable person. And that's good, especially to avoid tax evasion. We welcome that the applicant has specifically identified the specificities of residents in Slovenia who have been or are still employed with employers in the Republic of Austria. This area has not been regulated so far and needs to be regulated by law in order to avoid convincing taxpayers on a case-by-case basis, what is their tax obligation in Slovenia and not just where they work but actually live here. In view of the uncertainties in the current law, the proposal, which also lays down the conditions and especially for the assessment or write-off of income for residents who received income from employment and employment in Austria during the period 2005-2008, is with the Austrian employer. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u367	Thank you. Mr Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u368	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act is as follows. In any event, the Tax Procedure Act is the most important procedural law in the tax area, since it is only on its basis that the competent tax authorities can charge, charge and collect the prescribed taxes. Therefore, its amendment requires extreme caution, changes are only allowed on the basis of similar analyses, the implementation of the tax system, if the latter no longer meets the current social situation. In order to change this law as per the current lane on the basis of the interests of individual groups, we probably cannot and should not allow this. It's, as I say, too much and actually a very important marriage. My introduction already suggests that Members of the DeSUS Group, with all the proposed solutions offered by the novel, are not pleased. Otherwise, we support the idea of amending the provisions relating to disclosure of data, to service, to restoration reasons, to public auction clauses, and support the extension of the limitation period for special serious tax offences. In short, many of the solutions proposed are completely acceptable to us. However, we cannot provide absolute and unconditional support for this novel at this time. The main reason is this. A number of formal, we can say beautiful corrections obscure a change that, in our opinion, fundamentally interferes with the equality of legal rights and the obligations of taxpayers. In order to be clear, this is a special arrangement, so the chapter in the proposal for a new 146th Article is addressed, which is not even clear where to place the nomotechnically, if the amendment is of course adopted, a purified text. What this special arrangement and the new 146th Article are talking about is already referred to in the title of Article. Special dosages and special write-offs and conditions for specific write-offs for taxpayers, recipients of certain revenues from Austria for 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. We all know what this is about. We fear that this is the removal of the Government from extremely strong lobby groups of persons who, by their will and aggressive action, demand that our country, despite the increased income they earn in Austria and the club, benefit from Slovenian public goods daily, such as material and communication infrastructure, social insurance, financial infrastructure, the protection of their own and their neighbors, by the Slovenian police and many others, that is to say from the State offering them all this, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure that they are not only legally exempt from income taxes, but also write-offs for all these years, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. And all this under the pretense of being double-taxed. Let me say that in this case there is no double taxation, as their total income is not taxed in Austria or Slovenia. It is therefore possible to pay the income tax, namely the difference between the income that such persons should pay in Slovenia and between the income paid to that person by the Austrian tax inspection. Given that the revenues in Austria are significantly higher than those in Slovenia, given that there are significantly lower rates of taxation in Austria, for example, there is no tax for 10,000 euros, and that there is a significantly higher general tax relief in Austria, this difference is, of course, to be paid. This is the case on the basis of international tax law, on the basis of concluded international treaties on the avoidance of double taxation for residents of the Republic of Slovenia working in Italy, Croatia, France, Switzerland, Spain and other European countries. Therefore, the DeSUS Members do not see any reasonable reason why this would not also apply to persons working in Austria. In cases where Slovenian residents work abroad, double taxation and income would not occur, the rules of international law, as well as national legislation, would provide adequate tax instruments to prevent this. The Slovenian tax and legal provisions clearly and unequivocally prevent this double taxation. But that's not all. The solutions to this proposal go even further beyond the reasonableness limit in determining that those Slovenian residents working in Austria who have paid this tax difference will be reimbursed for all these years. So from 2005 to 2008. Members of the DeSUS Group are convinced that this proposed solution constitutes a violation of the constitutional principle of equality from the perspective of Slovenian residents who are employed in their own country, as well as from the perspective of those Slovenian residents who are employed outside Austria. The latter are not included in this unqualified tax privilege. Such a privilege could still be understood at a time of economic prosperity when the state is digging in money, but not at a time when we are drowning in red numbers at all ends and places and when saving is a necessary condition for us to cope with this financial economic crisis. In doing so, I should simply point out to the applicants the error in assessing the financial consequences of the proposal, since the proposed operator only uses the tax exemption data which have been legally paid. However, there is no assessment of how much the state budget and thus the citizens and citizens who pay their tax obligations on a regular basis will be deprived of the unpaid tax of these persons. According to our estimates, 17 to 19,000 of these people working in Austria can then be easily calculated what a gap in the public financial sphere would mean. In short, the DeSUS Group is never and will not support this proposed unconstitutionality in the future, nor will it support the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act and the amendment of the Income Act. We are convinced that with possible reception, citizens and citizens of Slovenia who are hard to earn for their daily bread with Slovenian employers would be in a significantly worse position, and we really do not want that. As has already been said, the DeSUS Group has somehow conditionally accepted this proposal for a novel on the tax procedure. It is conditional, because we believe that it is still time to avoid these unconstitutionalities and illegalities in the process of adopting and dealing with this novel and that the contents of at least some of the articles which prove this are being corrected in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u369	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an extensive amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, which requires the adoption, according to the applicant's words, of a need to amend certain solutions based on the knowledge of the implementation of the current system, the proposals of the professional public and the taxpayers, as well as a requirement to comply with the changes in the European acquis. The bill brings changes in many areas. In practice, the need to extend the data labelled as tax confidentiality has emerged, which can be disclosed by the tax authority to certain entities in tax-provisioned cases. This is information showing the circumstances regarding the fulfilment of the taxpayers' obligations. Furthermore, the proposal for a law regulates a specific case of termination of the tax procedure where, in view of the finding of the actual situation, an inquiry is necessary with the competent authorities of other EU Member States and with the competent authorities for the exchange of information. The proposed amendment replaces the service fiction with the domain of service performed, which can be challenged in cases specified by law, and the service is considered to have been performed on the 15th day following the date of dispatch. The bill further introduces a novelty which allows for the payment of the tax debt even after the expiry of the tax debt, provided that the tax debt is secured by mortgage and that a claim for real estate enforcement is submitted before the expiry of the limitation of the right to recovery. Since the public auction as a mode of sale has proved to be the least successful, the proposal for a law on the laundering of the movement is, as a rule, no longer sold at a public auction, but rather the tax authority chooses the appropriate method of selling which takes into account the most favourable outcome, in particular the most favourable price it will be able to achieve in the course of the sale. It is also newly stipulated that the taxable person may transmit data to the tax authority taking into account the tax reliefs by 5 February of the current year for the previous year. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed law seems to us a suitable basis for further consideration. We will then respond appropriately to some of the dilemmas and concerns we have regarding this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u371	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u372	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act because we believe that the Government has thoroughly revised the existing law and addressed a number of open issues, the unfairness of a number of provisions, the uncertainty of the content of certain provisions of the existing tax procedure law. We agree that the proposed amendments and additions follow the basic objectives of transparency, legal certainty and simplification of the tax procedure. We must recognise that the previous government has also done a number of things in terms of reducing the administrative burden of taxpayers, but has not sufficiently processed certain provisions of the law. I am referring to the 2006 version of the law, which has led to or occurs in cases of non-consistence, injustice, the possibility of different interpretations or dictates of the content of individual provisions. I will not discuss the objectives of amendments in order to harmonise the legislative text with amendments to the European legal order, because I have no more detailed analysis or explanation available. I am referring to changes due to coordination with the European directives. Furthermore, we believe that it is good to revise, amend, and complete the following contents, to list some of them in the case that has fallen most into our eyes. Dissemination of data in the context of tax secrecy and legal entitlement, disclosure, implementation of the tax procedure in the case of enquiries by authorities of other EU Member States, changes in the case of service, introduction of a new recovery reason as an exceptional remedy for cases of remedy of irregularity, changes in the calculation of interest, the limitation of offences, in particular serious tax offences, for three years; although the Slovenian National Party considers that the limitation period could be even longer; payment of the tax debt even after the limitation, the provisions on auctioning of entangled movements, the obligations of taxable persons with regard to the correctness of the data, the simplification of the means of determining fines in respect of offences and particularly serious offences, and so on, not to mention that there are still many of these changes. We are particularly surprised and pleased that the situation of residents who received income from the employment relationship in Austria in the period 2005-2008 has finally been resolved and settled, as the predecessor has already explained precisely, so now I will not explain it for long, but I will take a few indents. This situation was truly unfair for our workers in Austria, and some still do not understand how it is possible that such a situation could have occurred. The Government’s decision to write off, as a creditor, an income debt is in place. The affected Slovenians, who are employed in Austria, rightly and justly expected, and I hope that they will also see a change in their taxation. We welcome the proposal to repay such taxpayers in return. This is a just solution and a benefit that will apply only to those who forecast their income in Austria. Such legislation applies to migrants employed in Austria who are also most affected by such injustice. In particular, this concerns many of my relatives in Prekmurje, who were forced to go with the belly for bread, who were forced to leave their families and serve their daily bread in neighbouring Austria, where not all are as flowery as anyone in Slovenia represents, since it is necessary to work honestly and hard for those also sometimes only €800,900. And then you get extra taxes from your country. But in the end, you'd better be on social security. In short, I will not be a debt, in the Slovenian National Party, we fully support and expect such support from other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u373	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u374	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State, to co-workers and to the few Members and Members of Parliament. I am pleased that I am the last to present the view that this government and the Ministry of Finance are preparing good laws. I didn't hear anyone object to this marriage. Some apparently do not represent a position because of their support. It seems to me that it is good for the country when the National Assembly unites and supports uniform tax reform solutions. We will also support changes in the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. However, we would also like to mention some of the concerns that disturb us in particular in matters relating to the resolution of residents who are also taxable in Austria. The proposal of the law, which brings a number of additions to the various areas before us, gives rise to the extension of the disclosure of tax confidentiality in certain prescribed cases, replaces service fiction with alleged service, a new recovery reason where the tax authority can resume the process within six months for errors caused by the use of the information system. The important change that we welcome in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is also the extension of the deadline for the continuation of the procedure in the event of particularly serious tax violations, from two extended to three years. It is also a welcome solution that allows the payment of the tax debt even after the limitation if the tax debt is secured by mortgage and if a claim for real estate enforcement is submitted before the expiry of the limitation of the right to recovery. It is also important to change the regulation of public auctions, as public auctions have often proved to be the least successful instrument for the sale of certain assets. Therefore, the proposal provides for the possibility for the tax authority to choose a suitable way of selling which could bring the optimal purchase or, most importantly, the highest price achieved for the budget. This is also related to changes where the implementation of the first public auction is not subject to the condition of participation by at least two tenderers. If the other public auction is also unsuccessful, the tax authority shall sell the entrants in one of the other sales modes. In the field of metered income, amendments are introduced to replace the fiction of the service of the informational calculation with the presumption that the debtor must, in the event that he does not receive an informational calculation, submit a statement by 31 July that the debtor is obliged to verify the correctness of the data and to object in the event of disagreement, because this is the case for high or low incomes. Amendments to the legislation also refer to a more defined regime of tax obligations, which are mainly related to the introduction of fiduciary accounts. As explained by the law, in a number of countries, by expanding the activities of financial intermediaries and, inter alia, by introducing fiduciary accounts in the tax area, the issue of the correct calculation, withdrawal and justification of the tax has been highlighted, particularly in cases where the payment of income is related to abroad. The law therefore proposes appropriate solutions, which generally follow comparable arrangements when it is aware that there is still much to be done in this area with the development of events. For the public, however, the most important amendment to the Act is that relating to Article 146 of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act, which lays down the conditions and specificities for the assessment or write-off of income for residents who received income from the employment relationship and employment in Austria with the Austrian employer during the period 2005-2008. It is a special arrangement that applies only to cross-border labour migrants who are employed in Austria. All of this has been brewed long ago in the previous mandate, when a government decision was adopted and an initiative was given to conclude a protocol to the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation, so that workers should not have to pay the difference in income paid in Slovenia. In view of the Government's adopted position of 12 April 2007, by amending the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property with Austria, their income is taxed only in Austria, the residents of the Republic of Slovenia have thus rightly expected a change in their taxation, i.e. as from 1 January 2006. Unfortunately, however, policy commitments have not been properly implemented in legislation. By the date of application of the amended Convention, the provisions of the existing conventions were taken into account, under which the method of ordinary deduction is agreed for the elimination of double taxation in Slovenia. This means, in practice, that the tax in Slovenia is reduced by the amount of tax paid in the country of the source, which is the same as the tax that Slovenia would have calculated on its own from the income achieved in another country. Given that the current Slovenian legislation does not allow the solutions proposed primarily by representatives of the Civil Initiative of Apache and that the Government has assessed that the income situation of residents of Slovenia working in Austria should be maintained, the Government has decided to accede to the amendment of the current Convention on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property with the Republic of Austria by proposing to the Republic of Austria that the income from employment received by residents of Slovenia from employment in Austria be exempt from taxes in Slovenia and thus taxed only in Austria, where those taxable persons in practice also obtain such income. It follows from the law and, as explained, the Government has decided that, due to the long-term resolution of the problem, this Gordy knot from the past is decisively cut and solved and, consequently, these taxpayers are liable to write off their tax debt back, which I believe is fair and fair in terms of promises. At the LDS Club, we are generally skeptical of such partial and emergency solutions, although we are aware that this issue needs to be addressed. Despite the fact that retroactivity has been allowed in the case of the granting of rights, we feel that tax legislation is inconsistent and that its later regulation is highly controversial. We are of the strict principle that taxation must be treated systematically and in accordance with legal principles and, in particular, to meet the commitments in a timely manner, rather than delaying the problem indefinitely and in the future. The draft law also makes it clear that the write-off from the point of view of the State, as a creditor, is a extreme measure justified by valid reasons. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore hope and hope that we will not witness similar complications in the future, which we know have not been cooked by the current government, and that we will not witness further complications in the area of double taxation in the future. What are the consequences? The whole complication will cost the country around €4 million in 2010 and 2011, with a return of around €2.5 million due to the 2010 write-off, and approximately €1 million in 2011 to be made at the expense of other revenues. Despite these concerns concerning the regulation of the situation of migrant workers, we are aware that the Government has found probably the most acceptable solution under the circumstances, certainly not an optimal solution because it is not in practice. Since the commitments and promises made on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of who ruled, need to be fulfilled, but above all, the problem will be resolved in concrete terms, we will support the legal solution in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u375	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As my colleague has already said, we fully support the changes in the law. The Law on Amendments and Complements of the Tax Procedure Act certainly regulates more thoroughly the basic basis of the law, gives transparency to the law, and is a greater legal basis for simplifying the tax procedure. However, when we have talked about all these positive things, I should be allowed to stress what I expect to be done by the Government in the future. This financial discipline, or rather, non-discipline, disturbs me, and here the state should do something if it is already so precise and precise in the collection of all taxes. We know that the service tax must be paid as soon as the service is delivered, regardless of whether the service is also paid. That is why I call on the government representatives to do something in terms of protecting those who are working successfully in these difficult times and actually getting paid for what they are creating, the final product is said to be. This is because it is not regulated and it is not sanctioned that there is an increasing number of such violations. The State collects its 20% tax, whether the service will be paid or not to a certain company, entrepreneur or other legal person, but it is not interested. And here comes this legal void, as well as the task of the government to take care of it in the example of other countries. Let's say Italy doesn't worry about anything. If a person fails to meet some financial obligations, whether he has not paid the taxes or the contracting authority or has not actually paid the employees a salary, they simply close the company, take care of the manager, come back to work in three days and then conduct the sales process in a transparent, public way and find a new owner. This practice could also be introduced to us and businesses would not be permanently closed down. I'd have new owners. The drugs would continue to be drugs, Kolinska will continue to live, and these companies would live. We wouldn't lock our doors to these companies. As far as this is concerned, the Government is in fact with us and this previous government, very harsh and I miss in some way, if you already knew how to do it well, this collection, this consistency, everything you wrote here will also reflect positively on the budget, I call on you to ensure that, of course, the one who works will be adequately paid for what he has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u377	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u378	Thank you very much. I welcome the proposal itself, because any proposal that makes tax collection more effective in tax legislation also means greater fairness. If we all pay our taxes consistently, it means we can pay less. For there are fewer who avoid paying, and therefore there is less need for others to pay also for those who do not pay the tax. I would like to take this very short time to warn the government representatives that some important news is also being introduced with this novelty, which is very important for the public to be informed. For example, the obligation to inform the taxable person himself whether the information decision has been correctly complied with and is responsible for alerting the tax authority of any error, under- or over-accounted taxation. Of course, this is an obligation which is very important for the taxpayer to be informed as closely and as effectively as possible. We know that the fact that someone does not know the law still does not excuse him the fact that he does not need to respect this law. But from the point of view of a friendly country and a friendly tax administration, I call on the Government to carry out an effective information campaign in order to properly inform the public about what its new duties will be when this happens when it changes, in the case of informative decisions, of course not at this time, but within about 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u379	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u380	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! According to the proposer, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the adoption of the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act is necessary because of the need to amend certain solutions, based on experience in the implementation of the current system, based on the experience of the professional public and taxpayers. This seems important and appropriate to me, since laws such as the Tax Procedure Act are a living thing and it is necessary to adapt to the current situation. I must admit that some of the proposed solutions are meaningful and acceptable, but with regard to fundamental objectives such as transparency and legal certainty, I would have noticed that these principles have already been taken into account in the existing law. It is only possible or necessary to build on these principles. The applicant says that you are following the principle of simplifying the tax procedure and thereby reducing the administrative burden on taxpayers and the tax authority and stimulating taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations voluntarily. I did not see any special simplifications in this novel, especially not simplifications for the taxpayer. Maybe for the tax administration. On the contrary, let me just give you an example, I hope that I did not misinterpret it, this is article 111 of the bill. Here is the added sentence, which states, quote: "The taxable person must submit a statement of income from the withdrawal of securities and other shares and investment vouchers in electronic form if he has made more than 5 taxable withdrawals of such capital in the past year." In explanation, the applicant excuses this by how much work the tax controllers have with manual input of data and how much it costs. Now I ask you: will citizens and citizens now be obliged to equip themselves with adequate computer equipment? And what seems even more important to me, or I have a question: will we have to get our own internet connections? It is known that there are many other areas in Slovenia that are not covered by the Internet. Not only do they not all have Internet, the most basic, such as drinking water and proper road connections, but they do not. Even more hunting not to say, I think that those who do not have adequate computer equipment or access to the Internet will have to invest tax and tax returns using computer equipment installed in public places at all Durs' tax offices. Just think about what you're forcing citizens and citizens to do. However, for example, the SDS Group has recently proposed that all charges be paid with one payment order to the common account, and that is not the case, which is too expensive. Durs, you say he doesn't have the appropriate information support. According to you, the taxpayers are supposed to come to the tax offices on their own and enter data instead of tax controllers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u381	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Györek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bezjak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u382	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome chairman, well-known secretary of state! Messengers and Members! Amendments to the Tax Procedure Act. This law shows that there are some positive changes, but there are also negative things. Surely it is a positive thing that there is a reduction of administrative barriers in this law. We have more and more administrative barriers in the country. This is now the first step by which we are reducing them, because we have to drive the wagon in this direction if we are to be a successful country in the EU. It is also very positive that the Public Procurement Act is changing and acting more favourably for certain entities that may be able to obtain public procurement through less red tape. It is positive that the government has listened to residents who are on temporary employment or who work in Austria and pay taxes in this country. It is also normally positive that you have written off these duties, which you have charged from 2005 to 2008. I agree with those who have verbally warned that they pay taxes in Austria, why they should pay taxes in Slovenia. But it is true that some taxes should be paid here. But this must be mutually agreed and coordinated between Austria and Slovenia. Public auctions. I agree that the tax authority can identify the most favourable bidder, because we ourselves know what maneuvers have taken place in this area. However, the shortcomings are precisely from this point of view that tax collection is still not appropriate in this law. Those who operate in black today will still not pay taxes. It is therefore important that we take a step forward in this area as well. I believe that this is a great deal, and believe me, in this situation there will be more individuals or individuals who will do so from day to day. Here, in fact, the state does not collect taxes, and that tax, which in fact, I can say in jargon, is lying on the road and we can't collect it. Or, as a result of day-to-day red tape, companies will travel from elsewhere to other countries that are more favourable to taxpayers. Here we must begin to realize that if we lose potentially good companies, the state treasury will be smaller and not larger from day to day. At this level of taxation, but not at the level of unemployment. This law, prepared by the Government, I think it is good and I agree with what I have said, and it would also be good to think about these things, which I have underlined in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u383	Thank you. Mr Chapič has the word - he's giving up. Mrs. Kamnar, would you like a word on behalf of the Government? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 22 October, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. Before terminating the meeting, I would like to point out that in 15 minutes, at 21:00, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development will begin its meeting in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič. So I also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
