ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u1	I'm informing you that we'll be starting the meeting in five minutes due to minor problems with the information system. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It took a lot less than they predicted. We begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Aleksander Ravnikar, Miroslav Klun, Roberto Battelli, Matevž Frangež, mag. Anton Rop, Janez Janša, Villa Rezman, Matjaž Zanoškar, Janez Ribič and Daniel Krivec. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PENALTARY LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. You want procedural, Mr. Tanko? Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! The president of the Committee on Internal Policy convened a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy for 15 April and then suspended the meeting on the basis of various substantive comments and also the views expected and convened it for 6 May. On 6 May, as all the views were not forwarded and the position or opinion of the Supreme Court was also expected, the meeting was postponed to 12 May. When I look at the minutes, I note that the procedure for interruptions and announcements of meetings was carried out properly and the meeting was held on 12 May, I note that it has not been completed. It was not possible to vote after the debate because the committee had not been concluded. I note that the reports, which would be the basis for the consideration of this point, are not, since all that was happening in the middle was not guided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That things did not take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure also show the positions of lawyers, including Dr. Mir Cerar, who is the external adviser to the National Assembly, who stated to the STA: "The continuation of the meeting was contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The meeting should not continue." And then I'll keep quoting. "Even if they have found that such a Chairman's practice is inappropriate, of course, this cannot be rectified in a way that, without a business basis, the meeting continues. If we had established such a practice, then we would never have known which session is now concluded, because the meeting, or the meeting of the National Assembly or the Committee, could always be continued by the Vice-President." An external expert from the National Assembly, who was not burdened by the developments in the National Assembly, also found that what was happening in between, that is, after the meeting on 6 May, was not correct and was not commercial. Therefore, the President, I propose that we postpone the consideration of this item to one of the following meetings and, in the meantime, ensure that this meeting is carried out in accordance with the business provisions. I believe that there is no need for the National Assembly to violate its rules of procedure and to take decisions on the basis of an infringement of its own rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Since your proposal is in accordance with Article 74, I will put it to the vote. Before that, I will also give the leaders of the groups of Members the opportunity to communicate the views of the groups of Members. However, in doing so, I have to say the following in the introductory words. It should be noted that the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Vinko Gorenak, has decided, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and beyond the decision of the Committee, that the Committee on the Amendment of the Law will not consider it until it has obtained the opinion of the Supreme Court. Gaining this opinion under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not a condition for the Committee to consider or decide for the majority to submit its consideration. Instead of a committee that could take an interruption, the chairman of the committee took such a decision on his own initiative, thereby impeding the National Assembly to consider a law that had already been included in the meeting of the National Assembly. There has not been such a case in the practice of the National Assembly. For this reason, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, under the chairmanship of the Vice-President of the Committee at an otherwise convened meeting convened by the chairman of the Committee, has concluded its consideration of the amendment to the Penal Code, and has prepared a supplementary proposal for a law, which will be discussed today in the context of the second review of the urgency procedure by the National Assembly. Of course, I will put your proposal, which has been properly put in place, into consideration if the leaders of the groups of Members wish to comment on it. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, I object to the manner in which you have afforded it, as it were, by comment, you have given the floor to the leaders of the groups of Members, and they have a word when they receive it. In doing so, I would point out that the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, which was convened on 6 May, has concluded and that the members with the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Kolaric, have then voted on the continuation of the meeting following the adjournment of the meeting by the Chairman of the working body who was present there. This is contrary to business provisions. And what you just commented on doesn't work, because you can get a magnetogram and then find out that's not the case. I hope you've read these things before, if you don't, and I'll read them to you, if you don't mind, a magnetogram. On the basis of the conclusion of the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, which was present at that meeting, this meeting is not suspended and cannot be suspended. The session was chaired by the president of the working body. The Chairman of the working body concluded the meeting and then the manipulation by the President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure began, which he was at the meeting at that time. And if you keep going like this, if we keep going like this, then we don't have the rules of procedure anymore, but we have the sandstone. And the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission will be the Chairman of the Commission for the Sandstone. I suggest if you are in doubt that your claim, as you said, does not stand, and I know that it does not stand because it is in the record of the working body, the magnetogram, that you stop and postpone it to the next meeting or to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. I don't think it's right to deal with something that doesn't have a business basis. The Vice-President of the Working Body, without the authority of the meeting, shall be unable to lead or convene. And the conclusion of the expert advisor to the National Assembly, Dr. Mir Cerar, is quite correct. I hope that this legal opinion was available to all, and on 12 May it was also published on the STA and also some other media. I propose that we stop this madness, that we stop the treatment of this law and that the working body be carried out properly and that all the comments that have also been made properly be defined. We can't just do this in our head. However, in fact, the matter is not right and that the opinions were unnecessary, but also shows how you voted at that falsified meeting that does not have a business basis. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I propose that we postpone the meeting, interpret the matter correctly and deal with it as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Everything else is [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u5	Havela beautiful. I'm not gonna argue with you from this place, I said what I said, and I'm not gonna say it again. I give the floor to the leaders of the groups of Members to make a statement on the proposal for this item to be postponed and transferred to one of the next meetings. Please, Mr. Kontic. Please, Mr. Tanko, Mr. Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Either way, your explanation before Mr Tanko has responded again is substantively entirely in place and, of course, appropriate. It is also a fact that, during the meeting of the National Assembly, the President or the President shall explain or interpret the Rules of Procedure, and you certainly have this right. With this explanation you have given, I also fully agree. In this procedural proposal for a decision proposed by the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group, let me say that we will not support it in the Group of Social Democrats. It is important, though, that when we talk about the consequences, we also tell us where the cause or cause of what we are witnessing today. The president of the working body voluntarily interrupted this agenda item at the meeting and decided to deal with it when certain conditions were met - and he set the conditions himself. At its meeting, the National Assembly adopted a decision to suspend the hearing until the mother's working body prepared a report on the examination and the report and also committed the mother's working body to do so. Earlier, the president of the working body had called for the continuation of this meeting on 6 May, if I am not mistaken, and at the same time convened a regular meeting prior to the continuation of this meeting. And at this regular session, when they reached the point Variously, the panellists to this point were also reported, and the chairman decided to conclude the meeting and not give the opportunity to debate or debaters who wanted to speak under the point Variously. This was the second time the will of the chairman of the working body. And hereafter, it is said after this interruption, announced by the President, that they have decided to continue working on the follow-up to the meeting convened by the Chair of the working body. And then, in the absence of the opposition, Members and Members, the Vice-President held the meeting, discussed and decided on the proposal for a Penal Code, properly prepared the report and the conditions for today's meeting were fulfilled. This way we can continue the meeting, deal substantively with the penal code and decide on it. References to different opinions are, of course, possible. We all do. It is also true that we all do things in such a way that we interpret or explain our views to ourselves. And we read from an opinion or an opinion, maybe just statements for a press agency or maybe a newspaper, an electronic medium, only to the extent and work that fits our argument. More has been stated there and conditioners have also been used to draw conclusions. The problem is that there has been a mistake caused by the president of the working body. And then, in fact, there was a violation of the rules of procedure when the chairman decided that he would be alone, without the conclusion of the working body. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u7	Mr. Kontic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u8	suspended and resumed the meeting [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u9	Mr. Kontic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u10	when he assesses [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u11	There's something [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u12	That's right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u13	There's something wrong with the timing, so I wanted to warn you. I'm sure it's been three minutes here. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia? We will first discuss this procedural proposal, we will vote on it and then there will be other procedural proposals. Mr. Tone Anderlich, Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u14	Nicely greeted! This is a simple matter, but it is the great responsibility of the National Assembly to act in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and a good culture, if I may say so, in this greatest representative of the people when it comes to the legislative branch of power. It is free to refer to the rights of the presidents of the labour force because the rights themselves also constitute a strong responsibility to the proposer of a particular matter, to the National Assembly, to the public, to all those interested in the State Assembly taking decisions which are intended to address a social issue and which may concern all citizens and citizens. Speaking of the decision adopted by the National Assembly, this was clear: "The National Assembly imposes on the President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice that the Committee, as a working mother, treats the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code [[urgent procedure]] to be able to be dealt with by the National Assembly in the framework of the meeting [[This was determined in college and confirmed in the National Assembly.]] until 24 April 2009.' There was a boycott and there came that part of Mr Cerar's explanation, which, as you always do, you manipulated and didn't read everything. Before Mr Cerar quoted Tanko, he said: "The continuation of the meeting was contrary to the Rules of Procedure, the SOA was told by a legal expert who, while stressing that he does not know all the circumstances." Apparently, he did not know that the National Assembly had adopted this decision and another day earlier. The day before, he took another decision to do so. Then there will be a continuation of Mr Cerar's legal opinion, which says, "In his opinion, it has proved to be impossible for the President to delay the consideration of a matter indefinitely," says he here, "if the President would delay the decision indefinitely, because he disagrees with it, we will come into an irregular situation, because the National Assembly must decide on matters which are on the agenda and which are within its jurisdiction." And you've abused it here. Following the adjournment of the urgent meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, a vote took place in which the majority of those present said they would respect [[End warning sign]] the decision of the National Assembly and to do what the National Assembly ordered the committee to do, otherwise this assembly could be declared a mother's labour body and we could all consider it together under such conditions [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor, DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you very much. It is the fact that someone else did not meet the conditions for correct conduct, that is, Mr Vinko Gorenak, when he did not allow the Committee to carry out its work in time for the agenda item, which was urgently listed at the 5th meeting, before its beginning or before the beginning of its consideration of this item. Since this has not been done, there is great perversion and I do not say, even deliberately misleading the Slovenian public with the argument that anything was wrong with the opposition that wanted the National Assembly to carry out its duty to the end, it is said that it deals with the agenda item as it was adopted in the College, and does the work properly also by the committee where the Vice-President took over the post simply because the President did not want to understand his obligation to do what he was told to do with the Rules of Procedure, and he initiated the will only because he disagreed with the content of the law. Of course, everyone has the right to disagree with the law, but no one in this Chamber has the right to block the works of the National Assembly. As a result of this proposal, we cannot support things any further than it was set for us. We particularly reject such behaviour because it was not a mistake on purpose, but it was deliberate sabotage, if I may say so, that was first-class sabotage, the first of its kind in the history of our own country, which we will never agree on in our own group. We think that Mr Vinko Gorenak, for the time when he failed to do his job, should not have earned his salary, but he probably got it, which is at odds with the rules that someone who does not do his job cannot get paid for it. But I hope it doesn't happen again. But if it does happen again, then everything has to be done so that we don't have such presidents. Taking some freedom over the rules of conduct to oppose and avenge yourself because you have lost an election or anything is unacceptable, but it is one way of reacting to those who mistreat defeat. I've lost many times in my life, and I can handle it, and I'm going to be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem, on behalf of the Zares Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Even in our Group of Members, we will not support the proposal to end the point. We believe that all business conditions have been met to address the point. We also consider that the explanation given by the President is correct and valid. However, it must be said that it is actually a precedent in a meeting or a meeting of the National Assembly. It is sad that on this subject, in fact, in some way, as this is already too often a practice here, we are arguing after my assessment of the backdrop of the shadow. The main issue is the arbitrary and unacceptable conduct of the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Mr Gorenak. Here is the source of all the problems that have caused us to lose hours and hours at the College, hours and hours on the Committee, and I will say this, the matter is now appearing on the front pages of the media and I don't know what else. But the fact is that this is a course of action when there is a willful interruption and a failure to deal with a law on a committee, no matter what its content is. However, Mr Gorenak also had all the conditions for bringing down the committee meeting with that point. However, he violated it, harshly, according to our assessment. Rules of procedure. We do condemn this in the Group of Members. We hope that such matters will no longer happen in this House. Everything that was needed to be dealt with on the Committee was provided and submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Gorenak himself interpreted that he wanted to wait for an opinion from the Supreme Court. This is not provided elsewhere in the Rules of Procedure for consideration at a meeting of the Committee. In this regard, it is not possible to seek a reason for the suspension of the sitting when the other members and members of the Committee were not allowed to have a discussion at all. It is also a matter of ignoring the other members of the committee. Our assessment is that it is in some way a test of the will of this Parliament to see on some relatively insignificant subject where it can go. Apparently, they chose Gorenak in the SDS and Mr. Comrade Gorenak, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In this way too, they will try simply to test the goodwill of this congregation. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We are, as I see, a real picture of Slovenian society. As the National Assembly, the legislative body itself, we do not even know how to act properly in respect of our own proceedings, and on the other hand we expect our courts and all state bodies to act in accordance with the law. It's a sad picture. In the Slovenian National Party, we strictly and harshly reject such a way of working in the National Assembly and ask for a little seriousness, and for once to put an end to this, now traditionally, game of ping-pong between the coalition and the biggest opposition party. Something is true. Rules of procedure are being violated in the National Assembly, and that's not right. This case, who is right - here is a number of explanations; but there have also been cases where we have been working in other committees in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, especially the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, when we discussed and accepted anonymous proposals. And that was a really stupid story, if you think back a little bit. But there is something that is essential: a proposal for amendments to this law needs to be adopted, a debate needs to be held, it is necessary. We all know that, and I think we're in this together. But it's another thing - who's right. Or left or right? I think so much maturity in the National Assembly should still be, because I don't see what this Penal Code would be problematic about. I think it is a priority that these amendments to this law must be enforced. But what you have with you is a coalition with the opposition, and it would be best if you made an agreement out in the hallway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko - SDS has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u22	Just before, someone got rid of a lot of pollen. I think he's fallen for this flower dust after the National Assembly without actually checking the situation and the situation as to how it went. The first paragraph of Article 73 lays down the tasks of the Chair. And it says, "The chairman may interrupt the work of the National Assembly during the meeting and determine when it will proceed." That is exactly what Dr. Gorenak, as chairman of this working body, did. He suspended the session and decided to proceed. There is no need for any other matter in this Rules of Procedure as regards the President or the Chairman-in-Office of the Working Body, and that is sufficient and sufficient. The rest is on someone else's proposal. Dr. Gorenak interrupted the 4th session which was convened and said: "The sitting convened for at 9 a.m. with the point Miscellaneous has been closed. The meeting, which was convened at 1 p.m., the continuation of the meeting from April, was postponed, you were informed, on May 11th or 12th. Thank you very much." This concludes the 4th meeting of the Internal Policy Committee. And Mr Anderlič then, I will not read it all, I propose: "I propose, after the adjournment of the meeting, that we vote on the proposal for the meeting to continue at 1300 hours. If the president comes back, let him lead it," even that was, "if not, he will be led by the Vice-President of the Committee," and so on. "This vote shall be held and then informed the President of how the majority of the Committee has decided." It was about usurpation. The chairman of the working body is the one, or the National Assembly, who prepares the agendas for the meetings, the chairman of the committee is the one who proposes the rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee is the one who authorizes anyone to hold the meeting instead. That's not Mr. Anderlich. Mr Anderlich, as a member or alternate member of this committee, took the right to authorize someone to chair the meeting. I think that there is so much discretion in this National Assembly, so much wisdom that we will stop this procedure of addressing this item on the agenda, put it at one of the next meetings and make sure that the meeting is properly concluded. All that remains is the vote on the amendments and the proposals that have been tabled. And nothing else. I do not think that the National Assembly can allow itself to act in this way in the continuation of the mandate, so that anyone who has some time will convene a meeting of the working body or of the National Assembly past the President or the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I take it that those leaders of the parliamentary groups, or the deputies you wanted, you've been given the floor to explain. We are moving on to a decision on the draft procedural decision of the SDS Group. This proposal is that the draft law on amendments and additions to the criminal law, which is the 5th item of the agenda for this meeting, be moved to one of the following meetings. We're moving to the vote. There are 70 Members and Members, 24 to 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. I regret that this proposal for a decision has not been adopted. I propose the following procedural proposal to suspend the consideration of this point by the National Assembly, as no business conditions have been met for consideration. The report submitted has not been obtained in the manner regulated by the Rules of Procedure, so I propose that this point be terminated, that at the time of the termination of this point a conclusion be made or considered on the working body, that all the necessary decisions be taken by the working body and that we then proceed to the consideration of this point as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The legal opinion, not only of Dr Cerjar, but also of some other lawyers published in the media, clearly shows that the proposals or that the procedure afforded by the coalition in this case is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Nor is it possible that one decision that is in line with the Rules of Procedure, but perhaps you do not like it, you cannot decide in such a way that you violate the Rules of Procedure and force the National Assembly to deal with and decide matters that you force in such a non-business manner on the agenda. I must say that, in the Group of Members, we regret that, in recent times, such things have been happening to us, that we do not convene a meeting, that the laws for which the urgent procedure has already been approved are withdrawn from the procedure, as has been the case today with the Public Finance Act, and I regret that the President of the Working Body, the law for which the general discussion is envisaged and the requirement for consideration at an extraordinary meeting, has been combined with the Government Act over the requirement of implementation at an extraordinary meeting, and I also regret that the National Assembly confirms the urgent procedures and does not place them in the session, as stated in the Rules of Procedure following the College's decision, but only at the next month's meeting. That's, for example, the guarantee bill. You've allowed yourself a type of irregularity in a very short time in the last three weeks. I hope that all those who wrote this Rules of Procedure, which you wrote the rules of the National Assembly, at least those minimum standards, which are very clearly written there, are in control. There is no need to force Members and the National Assembly to deal with agenda items which do not have any appropriate basis in the Rules of Procedure or in a small constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I note that on the table we have a report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, an urgent procedure. So we have a report, an opinion with a proposal for a decision. Therefore, the business conditions for the consideration of this bill at the meeting of the National Assembly are given and possible, so I will not put this proposal into discussion and decision at all, since the National Assembly has already decided on this. That's how we proceed. Procedurally again, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u26	I think that this procedural proposal should be put to the vote. Procedural proposals must be voted on by the National Assembly. I do not think there is any record in the Rules of Procedure that the President of the National Assembly is the one who decides whether to put a procedural proposal to the vote or not. I propose that we decide on this procedural proposal and, if necessary, also hold a debate, as you are talking about the preceding item, because the procedural proposal is properly drawn up, the minutes or reports of the working body are missing, because the meeting was suspended and the properly convened continuation of the meeting of the National Assembly, which was held on 12th, ended as inconclusive. This is what you have in all your work body magnetograms, and you can check it out. I also expected you to check before you took the lead in conducting this meeting of the National Assembly. I must strongly protest that it is the President of the National Assembly who is concerned that the agenda items do not take place in accordance with the rules of procedure of the National Assembly which takes care of this. Not to worry that such items are not placed on the agenda and require correctness, but to ensure that violations of the Rules of Procedure take place and that the items of the agenda are dealt with only because they are in accordance with the interests of the coalition and, in particular, the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice has had time to take part in all matters of pear in relation to the explanation of the novel. Today, when the plenary session of the National Assembly was held, he sent an assistant. I also think that this is proof that this item of the agenda, in the way it is dealt with, is not worth the majority in this National Assembly. And so do I. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u27	Peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u28	Mr President, I hope that I will not have to ask Mr Kumro from now on, if I can take this further, in just a few seconds to the end. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u29	Don't argue!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u30	I propose that this procedural proposal be adopted in the same manner as the first procedural proposal. Because it also has a basis in the Rules of Procedure. But you can't report your working body in a legal way because it's not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Tanko! As you requested procedurally or procedurally, in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, I gave the floor as soon as you requested it. This article, which deals with a procedural question or procedural question, does not say anywhere that any procedural question is terminated by a vote, but by those specifically referred to. And when this was explicitly stated, as is the case with Article 74, I have also done so by the rules of procedure, and I am also doing so now. I have told you why I will not put your procedural proposal to an end to this point. I said that this point is placed on the agenda, that we have met the conditions for consideration and that we are also actually going to the hearing. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Procedural, Mr. Tanko. Do you have a procedure? Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. The rest of you, I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u33	Please listen carefully. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u34	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Just as you have now enjoyed a decision on whether or not a procedural proposal will be taken into account, so the chairman of the working body has decided not to take the proposal into account. Same way. You have decided not to put the procedural proposal to the vote, you will continue the meeting. The President of the working body, however, decided not to put the procedural proposal to the vote and to suspend the meeting. That's the only difference. With the same mandate, on the basis of the same rules of procedure, the president of the working body has taken a decision as you are now. You can consult with all those who wrote the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to hold this conclusion. And I suggest, as President of the National Assembly, that you work by the Rules of Procedure, as did the president of the working body. If you have decided not to put this proposal to the vote, I propose that you suspend the meeting of the National Assembly and convene a meeting where we will agree on the continuation of the meeting of the Heads of the Group. I think that the proposal has been put in place in the light of everything that has happened in the National Assembly in these few ten minutes, and I think it is right that we also discuss how to agree on how to conduct and develop this meeting of the National Assembly and this item of the agenda, because once again, the report submitted has not been obtained and adopted at the meeting of the Committee of the Working Body convened by the President of the Working Body or convened by its mandate. That didn't happen. I think that the minimum standard that we need to establish in the National Assembly is that at least the President of the National Assembly takes account of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and works after it. This obviously isn't happening. I propose a half-hour suspension of the meeting and I propose a consultation of the leaders of the groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u35	With regard to the suspension of the sitting, this suspension of the sitting may be given to you if you wish before the vote, if you wish. I don't see any need to call the College. That's what we talked about at the College. I continue to consider this law, as I have already foretold. I have explained my views several times, and I will not repeat them again, so I repeat or that the proposal for a law has been tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Government to further explain the bill. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u36	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me introduce you to the proposal for amendments to the penal code that is before you today. The Penal Code, which entered into force on 1 November last year, introduced the concept of two criminal laws, one for adults, the other for juvenile offenders. This concept has not been fully implemented in practice, as the special criminal code for minors has not been prepared and is not prepared today, but has only been adopted for adults. In the transitional provisions of this law, the legislator has tried to regulate the transitional regime, what and how it applies to minors for a period until a special law has been adopted for minors. This part clearly sets out in the transitional provisions which provisions of the old penal code apply. These are provisions relating to criminal sanctions. However, he did not make it clear that the provisions of the new penal code, which otherwise applies to full-year offenders, apply to issues of criminal liability or the guilt of juvenile offenders. Since these provisions have not been so clearly stated, in practice there has been a wide variety of interpretations and varied application of these provisions, or answers to questions which provisions apply to the criminal liability of juvenile offenders. The courts ruled differently. Some courts have stopped proceedings because they have found that there is no legal basis for the continuation of prosecutions against minors, while others have concluded that the issue of the criminality of these offences is so important that they must be decided by the Constitutional Court and there has been an interruption of criminal proceedings. The Supreme Court took the view that, during the transitional period, the old KZ was in force and that such a proposal was also submitted to the Supreme Court to take a principled legal opinion on this subject, and the Supreme Court adopted a general legal opinion establishing that a new KZ was being applied during this transitional period. All of this shows that the standard enshrined today in the existing criminal code is by no means clear. While the Supreme Court has eliminated some of these uncertainties by adopting a principled legal opinion, the Government, of course, welcomes the adoption of such a legal opinion. Such a legal opinion is also in line with what the Ministry has consistently argued that there is no legal void, but we estimate that the legal norm in the form that is written today is not sufficiently clear to achieve and achieve all the objectives required by the principle of certainty and the principle of legality. Let me recall that the open court proceedings before the Constitutional Court, open constitutional disputes, adopted in principle a legal opinion which is not formally binding on other bodies than the courts of the Supreme Court, are by no means binding on the Government, as a drafter, and even less so on the National Assembly as a legislator, to adopt standards and rules that will be clear and a provision. All of this is particularly important because the question of the clarity and specificity of this issue will not be judged solely by the Constitutional Court, before which the proceedings have already been initiated. This will undoubtedly have to be the last word of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where those who are accused minors will undoubtedly be exercising their rights in proceedings as accused minors in the end. This court, however, has already taken a rather strict standard and position on questions of legality and certainty. According to the criteria of this court, the provision is laid down and legal if it is legally binding. The general legal opinion shall not be formally binding on other courts except the Chambers of the Supreme Court. The European Court of Human Rights also assesses the quality of law. It assesses the need for such a provision to be made public. The general legal opinion is not published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The European Court of Human Rights will assess the predictability of the legal norm and, in particular, the predictability of those entities to which it lays down rights and duties, i.e. users, ordinary people, ordinary minors, who must be fully aware of what is expected of them and what is prohibited from them. If the courts are not united in what they are allowed to do, how do juveniles know? As a result of all this, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a amendment to the Penal Code that contains only a summary of what has been done since the claim of the opposition and of the legal and legislative services since the very beginning; that is to say, it is clear that the provisions of the new Penal Code apply to minors during the period until the adoption of the special Penal Code, as the new Penal Code makes sense for them to be full-year-olds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u37	Mr. Secretary of State, I want you to close up fast because time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u38	I'm concluding. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Finally, let me just mention that I propose that the National Assembly adopt and support the amendments proposed by the mother's working body and reject the amendments proposed by the opposition. However, with regard to the Minister's participation, I am obliged, given that I have been directly invited to say that the Minister is detained at the government meeting which he is a member of, and will join the National Assembly as soon as the government meeting is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u40	Mr President, first of all, I must warn you that you have violated Article 69. I applied legally before, but you didn't give me your word. So you're violating the Rules of Procedure basically, just like today's session. But that thing's already gone. I now find that the Government does not respect the rules of procedure, laws and constitution of this country. The Secretary of State calls for amendments and provisions adopted at the Committee's illegal meeting, which was convened and continued unlawfully, to be adopted against the Rules of Procedure. I have written to you about this, Mr President, and I have also mentioned to you that the Minister acted shamefully when he participated in this shameful meeting, Mr President, you continue to avoid those totalitarian patterns and experiences of the previous period, undemocratic, so that I literally see you as a personal tragedy that you had to overcome these pressures. [[...]] But since the Secretary of State has called for this, please and I request that, on the basis of Article 112, things which are not acts that are not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this report, do not exist. And due to the absence of any report, please suspend this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u41	Mr Jerovšek, I think you have abused the function of procedural question for a number of personal comments that I will not comment on. As I mentioned earlier, such proposals will not even be put to the vote because they are actually irrelevant. We continue to consider the law. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Anton Kolaric to present the report of the Committee. Please, Mr. Kolaric.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure at its 10th urgent meeting on 15 April 2009 and at its 1st meeting on 6 May 2009 as a working body. On 10 April, the College of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Government participated in the Committee's meetings and pointed out in their explanations that the proposed law removes the uncertainty as to the validity and application of material criminal law for offences committed by juvenile offenders from 1 November 2008 onwards when the criminal code came into force. The case law showed different understandings of the criminal code regarding minors. Thus came the expression of different decisions in different procedures after Slovenia. This issue was also addressed by the Council for Criminal Law as a consultative body of the Ministry of Justice, which found that the applicability of the criminal code to juvenile offenders was questionable and that it was necessary to amend legislation so that criminal offences would be specified in the criminal code and there would be no confusion. I must say that representatives of the Council of State also participated in the April meeting, which supported the proposed law as it advocated a clear definition of powers and penalties. At its first session, the Legislative and Legal Service had comments, which we removed with the amendments tabled below on 6 May. At that time, the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service considered that the amendments which had been submitted had eliminated the uncertainties of the amendments to the regulation in force and that the amendment was therefore appropriate for decision-making. On the basis of the explanations given by the proposers and the amendments adopted on the Committee, the Committee supported and adopted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Eva Irgle has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much for the word, honourable Members, honourable Members. When we considered the novel of the Penal Code, we found ourselves in an incredible film situation when fiction changed reality. Why am I saying this? What happened on 6 May this year on the Committee on Internal Policy, when the coalition majority took up the meeting only after the local realization, which had previously been suspended by the chairman of the Committee, in its own hands, is a precedent in the National Assembly without precedent. Thus, the ruling coalition completely overrun the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which it had written years ago, amazingly, and then continued with this theater even this week, when the right and not only fictitious or virtual meeting of the committee was convened. It is totally unacceptable that the coalition is completely past the Rules of Procedure, it is said exclusively on its own, held a meeting that does not exist at all and is not possible. The report, which we then received on what was going on at this fictitious, unrealistic committee meeting, was an apparent report to me and to the Slovenian Democratic Party, a pure fiction, apparently only in the minds of the people of this coalition. This report cannot therefore simply exist. This is because this meeting was not called to order under the rules of procedure. And nowhere in the Rules of Procedure will you find an article by which the coalition could conduct this session in the way it did. If we had done so in the previous term when we were in the coalition, that is to say, past business regulations, beyond all the rules the National Assembly has, we would have been declared totalitarian and intolerant, and the media would have torn us apart at the moment. It would have been a real lynching, and of course it would have been someone else like John Janša. In my view, today we are in a situation where obviously nothing more is taken into account, business regulations are being completely disrupted. And that's not just in case he's sitting down. This is not the first time in this term. But since this is a true ruling coalition, of course it is decent, it is right, and above all extremely democratic. If it were Janša’s SDS or another political coalition, then it would be considered totalitarian, authoritarian and, of course, unacceptable to the end. But today, of course, we know exactly why everything was going as it was said. There is something that needs to be taken by force only to break the Penal Code of the former Minister of Sturm. That's obvious today. Even if we know that this novel opposes all the services involved. This novel is therefore opposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service. He says that the legal void in the Penal Code is not necessary to amend the Penal Code. It even says that it is harmful from the point of view of ambiguity in the legal regime. In its principled legal opinion forwarded to the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, the Supreme Court also concluded, or stressed, that there is no legal void in the Code of Criminal Procedure and that there is already criminal liability for minors for crimes within it. So this novel is unnecessary and there's no reason to accept it. The new criminal code, as proposed by the Minister of Justice and touching on the establishment of juvenile criminal liability for crimes, is also opposed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Its findings are the same as those of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Not to mention that this has already been decided by the Higher Court in Ljubljana, which has also found that there is no legal void in the Penal Code. Here we see that it is only a policy, a political issue and not a professional question at all. As Minister, it is a shame that you are not here today, obviously, that you have to break the Penal Code, because in some parts it does not suit you politically, but even though all the services involved in this area tell you that you do not have a legal vacuum and that the novel is totally unnecessary. Today, in my opinion, we are wasting time for a irrelevant political decision made at the LDS Summit and you are, of course, a minister. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And through the obedient coalition forced to carry out. [[...]] Of course, in the SDS, we will not support the novelties of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cveta Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Secretary of State, not an assistant. We can see that the purgatory aspirations of incapacitated work, including the National Assembly, in the form of verbal threats - are now quite specific and in practice moving to the National Assembly in such a way as to block the work of the National Assembly, in the context of the legal content, which, in this case, the opposition party of the SDS, is not willing. And it is strange, tragic and absurd that the problem of amending the law on amendments to the Penal Code as to whether its changes apply to minors too - that is to say, to return to the content - or that this problem has become a first-class and first-class political theme, which, as I have already said, we have spent a lot of hours and thus probably money at many meetings, board meetings, at college. The theme moved to all front pages of the newspaper and to impact points in other media. It has even been called upon for the resignation of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar. There has also been a series of arbitrary and commercially contentious actions by the chairman of the committee, Mr Vinko Gorenak. And what's the problem? However, we must be honest and say that this is a very common and often present dilemma when different lawyers have different opinions. One is the opinion of the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice, the other lawyers, for example, in the Legislative and Legal Service, the third opinion has been drawn up in the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court has not yet decided on this, and there are also different legal opinions and interpretations given to us by other parties. However, it is extremely funny and, in fact, incomprehensible, even grotesque, how out of a strictly professional matter, what this thing is, which does not have in itself anything political, Slovenian parties are politicising the topic and making the problem that we are witnessing to today. However, despite all these concerns, I must say that in the Group of Members we will really support the amendment of the Code, because we will follow the principle - if you have listened to the State Secretary's explanation - where you could say that the excess does not have a headache. However, it is clear that we will also take into account that the principle of legal opinion drawn up in the framework of the Supreme Court is considered to be a decision only for the Chambers of Supreme Courts and not for other courts. And what has not been said today and in some way wanted to be ignored is that the opinion, the principled opinion of the Supreme Court and the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, as far as the content is concerned, is absolutely identical. It's the same opinion. And in this sense, it seems to us that this change and this position are also introduced into legal matter, and here we also see a rational basis for our decision to support the amendment of the Criminal Code Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u48	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! At the Ministry of Justice, a new amendment to the Penal Code was prepared, as the latter allow for different explanations as to whether juvenile offenders are, in the new case, criminally liable. They therefore propose the adoption of the novel by emergency procedure. The fact is that the Penal Code 1 which entered into force on 1 November 2008 was prepared quickly and therefore, according to a number of experts, there are many inconsistencies, including the issue of criminal liability for juvenile delinquents. According to the Ministry, there are different interpretations regarding the validity of material criminal legislation for minors in practice after 1 November 2008. In particular, it is disputed whether minors are subject to a specific part of the former Criminal Code after that day, or whether they are subject to the rules on the minor law under the applicable Penal Code 1 or to the enforcement of the juvenile penal law at all. In recent times, the criminal responsibility of minors has been severely violated by the opinions of politicians. Contrary to their opinions, there is also a reason for the unusual procedure, particularly with regard to the parliamentary procedures of certain representatives of the legislative branch of power. According to our assessment, this political struggle has reached its peak. A lot more. They are crossing all borders because we are witnessing that the real one has become a victim of political struggles for domination at all costs. It is high time that the situation calms down and that we soberly try to resolve the problem. In short, we have received a principled legal opinion from the Supreme Court, which states that the Penal Code also applies to minors. The Court based itself on various legal methods of interpretation and found that the validity of the law could not be determined solely by the interpretation of the meaning of one word in one article, but that provisions governing the validity of the law should be interpreted by the related application of several interpretation methods. In the DeSUS Group, we recognize that when we tabled a proposal for a law, that is, before the Supreme Court's general opinion, we were in principle in favour of this law. We have estimated that the law in force is unclear at this point. Such a vague situation is undoubtedly legal and criminally unsustainable. The principle of opinion is also based on the constitutional principle of the rule of law, which requires that important social areas are regulated by law and requires that these laws be clear and specific, I stress, clear and specific. Despite the principled opinion of the Supreme Court, there are still different interpretations of the problematic provision. The following are also the deadlocks of judicial proceedings, since judges dealing with juvenile delinquents have great difficulties in applying the provisions of the Penal Code 1 as to whether they are even criminally liable, whether they can be prosecuted at all. Such ambiguity is certainly unacceptable, even in the field of criminal law, where human life is most sensitive. Therefore, the different interpretations laid down by the provisions are not acceptable. In this respect, the Supreme Court’s principled opinion is purely this principled opinion. This is not a binding law, not a constitutional provision, and if this provision is still, in spite of the Supreme Court's view, a lack of clarity and ambiguity that even judges are not able to proceed, it might be even more prudent to amend the proposed amendment of the Penal Code and to fully remove these doubts. As regards the vote on the support for this bill, we are Members of the DeSUS Group of Members of Parliament and we support it. We are also united that laws must be written in a way that every citizen can understand and act on them, so the legal provisions must be clear and specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In practice, there has been a lack of clarity as to which law should be applied in procedures where offenders are minors. The new Penal Code, which entered into force on 1 November 2008, is the previous Penal Code, the law on this issue is unclear and allows either one or the other to apply. In view of the above, the applicable system of punishment can be considered to be flawed due mainly to its lack of clarity and, in the interests of legal certainty, it is definitely necessary to supplement it. We are also bound by Article 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act in the country, which lays down the principle of legality in criminal law. We agree with the statement that the purpose of the new criminal code is, in particular, to regulate the issue of the punishment of adults, and we also support the adoption of a specific provision to punish juvenile offenders, but until then we cannot allow legal vacuum in criminal policy, so we support the proposed amendment. Finally, it is only a matter of more precise and temporary regulation of the issue of the punishment of minors until the adoption of a specific law which will govern only the criminal liability of juvenile offenders. Until its adoption, however, we can ensure that the case law has been consolidated, which has been and is so far quite varied. The issue of punishing minors is such a sensitive topic, which requires a clear and precise definition of a law that does not in any way permit diametrically opposed views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice suspended the meeting of the home labour body because he believed that the proposed amendments to the Code were not a hasty one, since most of the legal profession did not see the need for such changes. We now have before us the opinion of the Supreme Court in principle, which states that minors are subject to criminal codes and that the provisions of the previous Penal Code are precisely mentioned. In fact, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expected such an opinion from the Supreme Court. And we cannot be surprised at the Minister of Justice's insistence on the amendment of the Code when it is not necessary at all. All this process of amending the penal code is somewhat strange, as there have been public claims that the applicable code does not provide for criminal liability for minors. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that such claims are primarily irresponsible, even if they are made publicly by the Minister of Justice. Secondly, we agree with those who claim that there is no legal void at all. But we're here to correct ambiguity. We are also surprised to learn that there has been confusion because some judges say so and others say otherwise. Some have stopped the trial because young people in our country are not criminally responsible and others are subject to the provisions of this same code. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned if this is true. We wonder what happened to the constitutional provision on equality before the law. We live in such a small country, and the juvenile's criminal responsibility depends on where she lives. I don't think our judicial system should afford that. As I said before, the legal voids to be eliminated by the proposed novels are not, as the Government's Legislative and Legal Service has said, the same claims by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and such an opinion has been delivered by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. And let me mention this. When Members adopt such an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as we have in this case, it is logical, of course, that we have concerns about the validity and substantive quality of the proposed act. Slovenian legislation is already quite inconsistent. It would be very irresponsible for us to pass by warnings from legal experts who are trying in our Law and Legal Service and other professional services. Of course, we will not support the proposed novel in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because we believe that there is no need and that the novel would actually confuse the criminal liability system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u54	Your Honor! Whenever a problem arises that can be big for someone else’s little one, you have to ask yourself what to do to get rid of the problem. In this particular case, the Government assessed, on the basis of experience, the Ministry of Justice assessed the implementation of the Penal Code following its entry into force at the end of last year. It was undeniably found that the courts acted differently. You know from the review of cases where some of the persecutions were abandoned because the provisions were unclear. Regardless of the fact that it has always been said, both by the representatives of the government and by the professions, that it is not a legal void, but that it is a matter of ambiguity. Today, some still insist that the government and the minister want to remove or fill a legal void. It is simply that when the National Assembly receives a table-based procedure for the adoption of amendments to a law by emergency procedure, it must ask itself whether it is not our task to react to the perceived problem. In this case, regardless of the opinion of the Supreme Court, there is still room for different interpretations. That is why we must always play our responsibilities as legislators. Where is our responsibility in the event that one case appears, similar to the one in Nova Gorica, the one in Kršek or another, and then with a finger, we show how someone has done something inappropriate. Let it go to the judge, let it go to the court, let it go to the government, let it go to the National Assembly. In the end, do we really hope to boycott a discussion about the legitimate reasons for changing the complements, and let it go to such a simple point at first sight? I am sorry, even at the beginning of this meeting, we have actually interpreted the interpretation of one of the eminent lawyers in this country by referring to the part which is indisputably clear, how the National Assembly cannot and cannot come into the situation that an individual would obstruct this work so far as he would not be able to carry out his basic tasks indefinitely, this is to adopt legislation. As well as of course, if there is any embarrassment about rights, powers and that an individual may have taken them seriously and said that because these provisions are always written in a way that someone must and is right to do, and to do so because it is in this position that someone can also understand that he can say, "I will not do that." No, no, no. In the National Assembly, we do not have the authority, we do not have the authority, but this is at all contrary to the responsibility of the representatives of the people to say that we will not do anything. We just have to make laws. Even if someone disagrees, there are always decisions. There was a major controversy in public around a decision of the Constitutional Court that was supposedly written on reddish paper or I don't know what. Five to four. In America, the previous president won, you know how - with the count and so on, and no one asked the question whether it was right or wrong. That is why I believe here that someone cannot agree with the changes, because this defends the character and the work of the former Minister of Justice. It is not difficult for me, and in the LDS Club we will support this, that the ambiguities are eliminated and that all the different interpretations of the Penal Code are prevented. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and that no one who is threatened, whether he is a minor or a minor, in order to avoid - on the basis of the law - any liability. [[...]] As we say, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much. A well-respected choir. The proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. We are aware that the least possible doubt as to which law applies to the prosecution of juvenile delinquents, and the fact that this doubt actually exists, is sufficient reason to supplement the applicable Penal Code in such a way that the relevant criminal law standard is fully specific and will not allow for different interpretations. Nor do we intend to undertake an analysis of how it was possible for the legislator to have overlooked this ambiguity when the current Penal Code was in force in the previous mandate in the legislative procedure. Let me just remind you that the Penal Code, which we refer to as the "small constitution" and which we consider to be the law of laws - was considered and adopted in an extremely short time, without a genuine public and professional debate, was accompanied by an extremely large number of important comments by the profession, both the government and the National Assembly, but the then proposing body did not take into account most of these weighty comments and warnings. Today, this time the opposition is scrupulously refusing to admit that some changes and amendments to the law may be necessary and necessary. Not to show that today's coalition was right when, as the previous opposition, it opposed the adoption of this Penal Code, but simply because we respect the fundamental principles of criminal law, but also all the major international acts that specify the general and fundamental rules and standards of criminal law and because we are aware that one of the fundamental principles is precisely the one that speaks of the strict definition of criminal law. In situations where a constitutional review procedure is initiated, where in different courts they explain differently the legal question which Penal Code applies to the prosecution of juvenile delinquents, when some criminal experts consider that it is even a legal void, that neither the old nor the new Penal Code can be used, again, that changes are not necessary because the law is clear. In such situations, the Government and the Ministry of Justice must do their utmost to ensure that these dilemmas are resolved as soon as possible. And that's why he's going today. It is also about the adoption of this novelty to prevent any judicial proceedings and compensation claims that could have been sought by those who would have thought that they had been unjustifiably prosecuted on the basis of a vague legal provision. The Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, the Secretary of State and not an assistant, has, in his opening remarks, already pointed to the serious possibility that even the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg would be brought to justice for the sake of these ambiguities. The Penal Code is too serious a matter, for a lot of people even of fatal importance, and it is not appropriate that there should be a political option in Parliament on it or with it to display and enforce its political prestige, because it is something completely different, something very serious and fatal for a large number of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 3 and on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which reads as follows: In Article 3, the word "not contrary to those provisions" is replaced by the word "not contrary to those provisions". In doing so, I would like to remind you that, first of all, the SDS Group has informed us of another amendment that has fully proposed deleting Article 3. I note that such an amendment, if adopted, would destroy the content of the proposed law and therefore not be concluded for discussion and decision. We are moving on to the decision-making and debate on the amendment tabled that I have read. Mr. Tanko, you want a word? Procedural Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Group also tabled an amendment that you did not read as an amendment or read the conclusion of what would have happened if this amendment had been adopted. However, what you have said is no reason for this amendment not to be considered. The amendment shall be tabled correctly and shall be tabled in accordance with the content to be dealt with in this Article. And what would remain after the adoption of this amendment is no longer the subject of decision-making and editing, I do not know anyone, not the chairman, not the services of the National Assembly. I object to the decision you have read that the debate on the first amendment tabled will not take place. The first amendment has been tabled correctly, commercially and the coalition can also decide on it. However, it is unacceptable that you have written down and assessed that if this amendment was adopted, only the title and the final provision would remain. This is not relevant. It is essential that the amendment is duly tabled to fit this Article and that a debate and decision be held. It is unacceptable for anyone to assess in this way what someone can propose, which amendments someone can propose and what happens if any amendments are accepted. Then we're done with the Rules of Procedure and procedure. And I only view this as an additional problem, an additional obstacle to the work of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in the National Assembly. In this way, the consideration of amendments and the consideration of any proposals can no longer be made. No matter what happens to the article, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment shall be fully corrected and in accordance with all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the submission of amendments to all or to the title of the law. In the event that we do not hold a debate on this Article, I suggest that you stop the meeting, call a consultation and find out at the consultation whether this is actually what you said, whether it is necessary to hold a debate on this. Our view is that we need to discuss it, and we have also tabled it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, if I understand you correctly, you have discussed on the basis of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure on the application of the Rules of Procedure, in view of my finding that your amendment, which deletes Article 3, cannot be debated in the light of the consequences it would bring. You probably agree with me, or we can read together that the Presidents decide on the use of the Rules of Procedure. I'm in line with these [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, the Rules of Procedure have several articles and each article also has its own number. The decision taken by Mr Gorenak was taken on the basis of Article 73, paragraph 1, and in my opinion also against the Rules of Procedure, I take the decision I take on the basis of the last sentence of Article 69, which states: "The application of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the President." I think that's an indisputable explanation. Whatever you think of it, it's your business. I'm explaining ahead, you'll get, Mr. Tanko, a word. It is not possible to decide on this amendment. If such amendments were to be adopted for decision, then this would mean that in the future each law, with one or a hundred articles, on the basis of amendments proposing deletion, can be eliminated, and we have only a date with which an empty law, which does not have a substantive provision, can be enforced. I firmly believe that such conduct would be a great precedent in the decision-making of the National Assembly, which would be harmful. You know that too, so on the basis of a warning from the service that your first amendment has been incorrectly tabled, you tabled a second amendment that allows everything that will continue to happen. It allows for the necessary debate and allows for a final decision on the content of the law. Because the desire that you have not to adopt the law and that you are making with the amendment, you will be able to make this wish come true when you finally vote on the law. And we will not vote on whether or not the law will be adopted twice, once at the amendment, once at the end, but only when the amendment is adopted. I promise you, however, that if the decision comes to a final decision, such a decision will, of course, be given to the vote. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u60	Mr President, once again, it has become clear that all the Presidents are not given the opportunity to decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure as you have said. It shall not be allowed for the President to decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure. On 15 April, 6 May and 12 May, Mr Gorenak decided on the application of the Rules of Procedure and adopted certain decisions and previously cancelled them by addressing a point which does not have a business basis. It is said that in addition to the official rules of procedure, we have a secret policy, as it used to be: there was also a secret Official Journal in addition to the Official Journal. We are not, and I will say this again, all parliamentary groups in an equal position in the Council of State in the handling of agenda items, when citing meetings, when conducting meetings and when concluding meetings. In all these segments you introduce and apply double criteria. However, I would also like to remind you that if we had accepted this first amendment of ours, we have already had one in this National Assembly. And also because we have already had such a case, I have suggested that you, as a Parliamentarian with extremely long practice, would probably recall these cases. However, if you do not remember it, I suggest, as I said in the introduction, that we suspend the meeting of the National Assembly, that you convene a meeting of the President of the National Assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and that we look at the current practice in such cases. You will no doubt find that we have already had such a case. And then there was no systemic or business dispute. And because someone proposed a completely corrected amendment, never a chairman, even in such a case no, decided that, I don't know, some amendment was really meaningless or I don't know what kind of amendment. Here in this material that you have presented to us, you have pointed out that if this amendment is adopted, the proposed law no longer has substance, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] That's right. [[...]] But that is why this amendment is not meaningless. The debate on this amendment must be carried out despite this remark. In point 2, you wrote, in case this amendment is accepted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. This reminder has two points. And the debate on amendment number one, point one, must be held. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Because it's not meaningless. [[...]] That doesn't say in any reminder. If you do not allow this, you have voluntarily prevented the debate on the duly tabled amendment of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u61	Mr Tanko, I ask you to allow me, with all the criticism you have, to lead the session and to apply the rules of business. I'll say it again. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Grimes, you're just gonna wait for me to say it all the way. [[...]] Once again, Mr Gorenak has decided on the basis of Article 73, paragraph 1, and we have identified this at all times in the College and in the National Assembly. And the joint opinion or the Chairman's opinion in this case has always been that it was not possible to apply the first paragraph of Article 73 independently, but in conjunction with the second and third paragraphs, and that therefore Mr Gorenak's decision was contrary to the Rules of Procedure. It was my decision, and I have this right to use the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the last sentence of Article 69. And now for the content. This is the third paragraph of Article 129, the amendment may propose to amend or supplement an individual article or the title of the law, and no amendment of the whole law is proposed. The amendment may also propose new articles if the substantive solutions are based on the objectives and principles of the bill or the deletion of an individual article. I explain the emphasis on an individual article in such a way that it is not possible to amend the law in full with one amendment, if only one law, by deleting it. And once again, the debate will allow you to decide whether or not to pass the law. If we were to go along your way and allow us to decide on the amendment you tabled for the deletion of Article 3, I am sure that, in the event that the National Assembly would take this decision by a majority, which I, as chairman, I am sure that any other president would also have to conclude that the legislative procedure is terminated because it is not possible for the National Assembly to adopt a law without content. You must agree with me on that. As a result of this decision on Article 3, your amendment makes no sense. Mr. Grimes, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, since you are still in law at home, you know very well that in each democratic parliament, the rules of the game are governed by two equally important components, one is the text of the Rules of Procedure, the other is the legal practice, which is respected at least in parliaments with a long tradition, and sometimes even more, even though it is an unwritten rule, rather than just the text of the Rules of Procedure as such. As far as legal practice is concerned in a particular case, we have had several cases since the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure when the deletion of all articles has been proposed and the title, if you will, has been fully proposed. In one case, at least in practice, the application of the fact that it was simply left of the law was so small that the procedure was then completed. Legal practice is long-run, established here. And what you're doing now, it's a drastic departure. Why is this whole colloquial thing really happening? For all of you know the old Murphy Law, which says that every procedural colloquial is covered with deep content. What is the essence of this story can be taken away from you, you will not believe what the opinion of the government's legislative service has warned: "It is only by proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code to the Legislative Procedure, and in particular its adoption, that it can cause great harm in the field of legal regulation at all." The government's own service warned the Ministry and Government of catastrophic incompetence and destructive ignorance, which they showed when they went to invest in the legislative process at all. And in the same way that additional confusion is introduced, the legal service of the National Assembly wrote in its justification. You're really running away from this, and that's why you're in such a hurry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u63	Mr Grims, this is no longer a procedural debate and a proposal, please return to the procedural debate. [[...]] [[....]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u64	You keep running away from the entire legal profession, now even the Supreme Court, pointing out that this law is not only unnecessary but harmful because it introduces additional legal confusion. That is why you, Mr President, deviate from legal practice. That is why you do not allow a debate, which is why you have taken the right to prevent a single amendment from being debated because it is a catastrophicly destructive ignorance and inexplicability of you and the ruling coalition. Exactly what the government service itself warns is in total contradiction to everything that you have today justified the adoption of this law and the swift procedure you have justified by all this urgency that there is a legal void. The Supreme Court said she wasn't. It's said to be in this, too. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u65	You're talking about content again, I don't expect much tolerance from you, just please stick to the proposal procedurally [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u66	It's not about tolerance, it's about legal facts. I'm just quoting what the legal opinion of my own government's own legal service pays for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u67	That's just the content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u68	Legal services of the National Assembly [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u69	which you can't talk about under this point [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u70	and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u71	if you propose a procedural debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u72	and, of course, the opinion of the Supreme Court [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u73	Mr Grims [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u74	Who's totally putting you on a lie. [[...]] For this reason, I suggest that you respect the legal practice that has been established throughout this period. Allow also the debate and vote on our basic amendment to delete this article, in the opinion of the Government Legal Service, in the opinion of the Legal Aid Service of the National Assembly and the Supreme Court, from a harmful legal act, an unnecessary legal act which introduces additional confusion into the legal order [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u75	Mr Grims [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u76	remove [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u77	Three times I've had you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u78	from the agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u79	warning - talk about procedural matters! [[...]] Now there's just one more thing. Your claim that I will not allow the debate is unrealistic. The debate on the amendments and Article 3 will be allowed because the amendment I have read has been tabled and will be discussed. Since there has been sufficient debate with regard to the procedural procedure and the manner in which the meeting was held, we are moving on to a debate. Mr Tanko, if you will discuss my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, please do not do this because this debate has been held. And I have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure and we are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 3. Please. Who wants a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u80	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] Procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u81	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, there's no such thing as a state council. Nor does he get a word after the Rules of Procedure to discuss the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u83	You can, too, if you have something. I told you in the introduction. [[...]] [[It's a back-to-back conversation.]] we have tabled two amendments to Article 3. [[...]] No one, no job has found the first amendment irrelevant. It's irrelevant. It doesn't say. And since it does not say so, this amendment must then be discussed as well as the second amendment to this Article. I'm afraid it doesn't. If the amendment were immaterial and therefore there would be no debate on it, this would be written in a reminder. And since this is not written, I think that the Chairman has voluntarily identified the duly tabled amendment of our parliamentary group as an amendment that should not be discussed. With what right?Oh, my God! Then there's the second amendment. Then why are we discussing another?Oh, my God! I think that this amendment should be discussed. And there's one more thing. I have proposed the suspension of the meeting for the convening of the College or the consultation of the College of the President of the National Assembly to determine whether this has already been the case in the current practice of the National Assembly. We're saying yes. And if he was, then this practice in the National Assembly exists. And I don't know if you have the right, Mr President, to decide voluntarily what we can discuss in the opposition if we have done all the things correctly. We do not want any special status, no specific matters, we just want the work of the National Assembly at this point, and in this article runs as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, nothing else, we do not like any exceptions. And you obviously have a lot of trouble in the coalition when in every way possible [[Op.]] , by a manifest violation of the Rules of Procedure, as also found by the lawyers employed by the National Assembly and for whom they do not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That the law is inappropriate, that the law is unnecessary, shows that you have already "scanned" two articles. And Article 3, the correction you made only means that something is being resolved, only that it will be a proponent [[Op.]] Minister, he's broken the law, but he's not saving anything. And I propose a meeting of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly and a suspension of the meeting in 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u84	Mr Tanko, whoever is accompanying this meeting in the hall or in the public can't believe you don't have a chance to speak. The third time you talked about the same thing, the third time you got your word, you talked about other issues, not just procedural issues, and you're acting like the master of this National Assembly. You just allow yourself to go through it every day, at every point of the agenda, and I can't help you if you don't know any politeness and correctness. Secondly, if you are concerned about the reminder to hold the meeting of the National Assembly, I will show it to you at the end of the session. Warnings about this are not only mine but also ready for a reminder of leadership, because it is perfectly clear to anyone who wants to be corrected that the procedure is designed to implement the content of the law and that such an amendment, which completely deletes the law, is meaningless. You're deleting the law with this amendment. I will, because I have to and I want to, allow you the whole debate on the second amendment and you will be able to talk about it. And in the end, on your proposal. Your proposal to call the College is possible. I, too, can decide without a vote because this is referred to in Article 73(3), but I see no reason why I should convene a meeting of the College because the College does not have the authority to decide how it interprets itself during the meeting of the Parliament. That's up to the president, he can make the wrong decision, but he can make the right decision. And please allow me to do this my function and duty. We are moving on to the debate on the third amendment. Do the proponents want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to the debate. Who wants to talk about the amendment to Article 3? Check in. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. The reason why we tabled the amendment is precisely the same reason why we are convinced that it would be legally best for everyone, for the country, for this Parliament and also for the proposers, if the law had been removed long ago or would never have been tabled. Now it is only about how to get him off the agenda as soon as possible, so that he would never become an integral part of the country's legal order. This is a simple reason and is already covered in the report of the Government's own legislative service. I quote: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code is not only unnecessary and professionally flawed in its entirety," this is the opinion of the Government's Law Service, "that only proposing it into the legislative procedure even, especially its adoption, can cause great harm in the field of legal regulation at all." Thus, what inexpertibility and ignorance led the motioners to send this to the National Assembly. The same opinion can also be taken from the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that the law introduces only additional confusion into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and that it can also constitute a substantial change in the whole concept of criminal law regulation, which is not apparent from the material, which is, of course, only an additional argument for the claim that the whole event in this law is a mere incompetence and ignorance of the Government and the ruling coalition. And I firmly believe that this is also becoming a red thread of the work of this government and I am not surprised that it is so destructive for the economy and for the further development of Slovenia. Incompetence and ignorance. This is not necessarily incompetence as such. The worst is one who pushes his incompetence and ignorance forward and wants to enforce it at all costs. That's why it was so urgent to cover it up, so that this legal, meaningless theater took place with a special session of the Commission, which, of course, is legally null and void. Do you know what that means in practice? This should be of interest to all of you, and in particular to the proposer. If the law is not adopted in a procedural manner, in accordance with the proper procedure, the Constitutional Court may also decide to do so in the event of a complaint. Thus it is written in the Constitutional Court Act, which means that further insistence on this law is in the way you have chosen it, either once again evidence of your ignorance and incompetence, especially in the legal field, or the awareness that the law itself is an expression of the lack of expertise and ignorance of the Government and you leave the door open to remove it from the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, so as not to introduce further confusion. Even if the procedure is completely wrong, we can look at the justification. All the rush was justified by the fact that it was supposed to be an end to the legal void. What does the Supreme Court say? Main opinion of the Supreme Court: there is no legal void. Of course, it never was. All this haste is just a reflection of incompetence and ignorance, which, I think, are actually becoming the only identifying signs of the existing ruling coalition and its governments. Maybe someone will object, yeah, what about fraud, and fraud - because that's what they've been given power over. Perhaps, but this masked this inexplicability and ignorance that is visible here and that even the profession, the legal profession that they are paying for, raised their voices against. Have you ever seen anything like it? And that's the problem. Therefore, the only wise thing to do would be to vote on the basic amendment itself, just as it had been tabled. Unfortunately, the President, contrary to legal practice, does not want to allow this to happen - and we would get it out of the agenda. However, this law must certainly be rejected in order to ensure that there is no further harm in the absence of further legal confusion. However, I must point out that the legal procedure, as it has now been by chance in the National Assembly, means that the National Assembly, if it agrees, of course, also the Presidency, either knowingly violates the rules of the game or thus manifests its legal incompetence and ignorance; and again, at the beginning of the red, we follow what is now, unfortunately, every day. Finally, because there are some things that need to be repeated to impress on your memory, let me do it again. Everything that needs to be said about this law has been said by the Government's Law Service - the law is not only unnecessary and professionally flawed in its entirety, but only its proposal for a legislative procedure, and in particular its adoption, can cause much damage in the area of legal regulation at all. I'll sign it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. My name has been mentioned many times in the National Assembly today, but I did not answer or had no opportunity to call. So I'm going to put it this way, for the introduction, and then I'm going to go to the amendment. If I have suspended the meeting on the basis of Article 73, paragraph 1, I have done so twice in writing. However, since Mr Anderlič used Article 69 at the 4th regular session at that time and submitted [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Can I? If you need Persen, I'll buy it for you. He used that item of the agenda that was not even at that meeting, of course I am just like you, just as you have decided and interpreted the rules of procedure. But the difference between the presidents and me today is very important: you are the authority and I am the opposition. And the authorities are always right, even if they're fooling around nonsense. Let's get to the bottom of this. When we talk about the responsibility of minors - this is the topic of the amendment, Mr President, which we are discussing - I must go back. Today, too, quite a few things have been said and said. In view of the fact that the Penal Code was adopted in the past year under some rapid procedure without public debate. That's not true at all. He was accepted by all normal procedure with the following truth. Two, three grey eminences of the Faculty of Law from the former Yugoslavia have opposed this, in particular in the field of juveniles, in particular in the field of juvenile responsibility regulation. Minister Sturm predicted that a new penal code would be drawn up for minors only. At that time, what is a perfectly normal concept is the concept, since minors do not appear to be dealt with, however, because the objective cannot be the same as for adults, but rather must be the aim of re-education, which is why a specific criminal code for minors was provided for in that criminal code. This was opposed by the then opposition, the current coalition, and it was quite loud. But the current minister is essentially doing the right thing, as he announced last year when he was still outside Parliament, outside the government, in a particular party. How did such regulation take place in the juvenile field? In the following way: The Minister shall have the Council for Criminal Law, which has so advised him. The Criminal Law Council is a consultative body, so I found out in response to the question. The Council is chaired by the Minister himself, i.e. it is a political body and not an expert body. He's in charge of politics. In early March, the minister and I exchanged two or three words here on one occasion when he informed me that there was a legal void in this area, so the penal code would have to be amended. Of course, I told him that if you thought so, as soon as possible, we'd get rid of this problem. And I promised him help. But it happened the other night on commercial television or national television, and I don't know which one when the minister says, "A terrible mistake, a big mistake. We have a terrible legal void. It is impossible to judge minors." What does that mean? This doesn't just mean green light to minors. Do what you want. This also means green light for adult offenders, potential potential perpetrators of crime, who may order such crimes for money from a minor. The minor is not responsible if the minister says so. But that's not all. If it were just that, it would be, say, a mistake. But there's a way to go. But what does this statement mean? In Slovenia we have a division of power: legislative, executive and judicial. The judicial branch of power is independent if anyone starts any debate on my statements, of course I will repeat them, and this time I have no intention of having them because they do not belong to this amendment. What's going on? Instead of the judicial branch saying that the criminal code was or was not in force, or that Parliament would possibly give an authentic explanation, or that the Constitutional Court would judge. No, we have a diversion of the legislative branch of power in the image of a minister to the judicial branch of power. Because, you know, forget he's not a judge anymore, he's a politician. It's a first-class diversion. This sentence has used a lot of judges I've spoken to. Of course, it is not possible to mention their names because they are in another branch of power and I do not want to expose them. But that's what they warned me about. I wasn't even that careful. Once again, this is a first-class diversion to the judicial branch of power by the executive. An unacceptable act worthy of what I then called on the Minister myself. And yet, what was behind it? That was the next thing. Some of the courts have decided what they are. According to Krsk, he is not a responsible minor and the higher court of Ljubljana immediately stopped the case and said what time it was and said: the criminal code was in force. And I think there were some problems in Nova Gorica. And that's all. But if these problems are, let the Supreme Court decide with a principled legal opinion or what is already called this document. I wanted this document because everyone was against it. Comrade Grimes spoke of the Government's legislative service, the parliamentary service was against, the Supreme Court had already decided. And that was three of my arguments why I just wanted to wait for the Supreme Court's opinion. And nothing else! And nothing else! And I do not consent to any abuse of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, because I did not put the proposal under the same article as today 69 to the vote because I, as President, so decided. And nothing as different as today. But mine doesn't apply because I'm in opposition. But it's yours because you're in power. Let's move on. So at the end of March, we get, I think, the end of March, the beginning of April, we get into the National Assembly that criminal code that has three articles and that provision when it comes into force. It has three articles, plus the date of entry into force. We are therefore in a situation - I am talking about about May 6th, how these minors and the validity of the Penal Code - when an illegal meeting of coalition members takes place. It is perfectly normal, and I expect that on one occasion, when President Gantar puts a proposal to the vote, he says, "I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly for two hours," and by chance, the coalition MPs will be a little more absent and the opposition will be more present, and Mr Tsukati will appear, sit up and say, "I am putting this proposal of Gantar to the vote." But we will vote to continue the session. So that's how you do it. But you are the power and we are the opposition. Let's move on. What happens in an illegal session? In an illegal session, when you had already learned the big mistake that had been made; not mine, yours; when you had already learned the big mistake and unnecessaryness of this penal code, these changes, you deleted Article 1 and you deleted Article 2. And you left Article 3, that's some kind of transitional provision that interprets something backwards. I said a little earlier about Radio Student when they said, "We don't understand what you're going to take today." And I said, "We're going to accept this as if we were going to rename Radio Student to Student Radio with the same team and the same program." "So you won't accept anything." I said, "Right, nothing!" So you saw for yourself and therefore this transitional provision. You also wanted to prevent us from discussing this transitional provision. We have tabled an amendment after which this transitional provision is deleted. What would happen? - Nothing. The law would be empty, just like some laws in the past. And that's what happened in the past. No! No! You're the area! No! No! This can't happen! Prove power at every turn! You're in power. There's no problem with that. But we need to know how you're doing this, and that's why you're banning the debate on that amendment. This was also the reason why we tabled an extra one. Yes, of course he was, because otherwise we would have taken our word again and we would not have been able to tell the truth again. So that's the problem. To return to the principled legal opinion of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court of 11 May, I convened a meeting on 12 May, as I have always said, said: The Storm Penal Code is in force. There is no legal void in Slovenia in this area. It is therefore possible to judge minors. What happens that night? Individual coalition MPs, including the Minister - yes, yes, yes, this is true for the Senate of the Supreme Court, but not for the lower. That's not true! Deception! I told the minister I wouldn't hope to say that in a closed session in the basement of this National Assembly; I wouldn't dare say that! Because the judges listen to me, too. And after that performance in the Odessa, I got a call from at least five, six judges. And it either disgusted me or congratulated me - okay, but it doesn't matter. The basic legal opinion in force of the Juvenile Law is clear. It is accepted in a two-phase procedure. And in the first phase, representatives, i.e. presidents, of all the higher courts, participated. Only then did the Supreme Court decide as it decided. Therefore, the matter is clear: the principle of legal opinion is taken into account in the Slovenian courts because it is in a hierarchical manner taken into account by these courts. However, if any of the courts did not do so, let's say that Krška again would say otherwise that the Higher will cancel in Ljubljana that it will cancel the Supreme. So there are no problems in Slovenia, but we move on. Coalition: we move on, we need to get to today's session because we need to adopt a law. Regardless of the fact that some coalition members have claimed to me in the past days, "we will throw the law out because we know it's a mistake." I will listen with interest today and watch the vote list, including those who have told me to see whether discipline has now prevailed or what has actually happened. I think it'd be a good idea if we threw this marriage away. But we probably won't because you're in power. And if a transitional provision is to be adopted within the meaning of "Radio Student, Student Radio" to name something, just that there will be law, only that you are power. Congratulations on being in power, and it is right that you are in power - rule! Four years from now, three years from now, yours and our judgment will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Beblereva, what do you want? [[The ad in the hall.]] I'll open the second round, then I can. Now it's Mr. Franz Pukšič's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, presidents! Various lawyers, different legal opinions - unfortunately, this has been practiced in this country since the beginning, the beginning of this country, and many times it is simply too simple. Therefore, in fact, the legal profession is somehow becoming a field of politicisation, where at some point it is no longer an important opinion of its own house, legal service in the National Assembly, where it becomes an important opinion of the Government that some things are being carried out, which I do not think is right. By doing so, the government coalition proves its arrogance and the power to be in power and rule. In view of the fact that I am not exactly a novelist in the National Assembly, I remember quite a few large parliamentary groups, which today are imaginary, which have also done so, and this is not good. Regarding the Penal Code itself, colleague and colleague, according to the different opinions of the legal profession, I would also like to say this: some of you who then also amended the Penal Code, in 1994, when you amended Article 240 of Article 146, are still sitting in this Chamber today, but because of this you feel no responsibility and have not borne any consequences, even though that change was solely due to the rescue of some individuals, such as Uroš Aljančič, Pavel Koder and Judge Anton Šubic. The only change in this penal code was this: "in the area of counterfeiting or destruction of business sheets is punishable by imprisonment from three months to five years", and then you wrote "with imprisonment up to two years". By doing so, you have changed the decisions of the courts, or so to speak, of prison duties already written down for individuals. Two or three more cases of the diversity of our good lawyers who are not going professionally, which is a pity, which is wrong, but are going political. All those who want to go to politics should go to elections, to run there, to local, state, whatever, choral and so on, but if they go professionally, should go professionally. The Slovenian Bar Association wrote that Judge Šubic did a fair and conscientious work, although he did not write a judgment on Uroš Aljančič for nine months when he was convicted, even though he should have done it in 15 days. More. District Attorney
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u90	Mr. Pukšič, give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u91	Niko Bricelj wrote - I'm talking about an amendment that I'm going to support and I'm talking about different legal approaches that so far have been so much talk about. Mr President, I only have five minutes at my disposal, and please leave me these five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u92	I just wanted to remind you not to discuss Elan's affair, but this amendment that we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u93	Mr President, there was no debate on this amendment and on this law today, but it was only about the procedure, what and how everything was wrong on this path. And I want to remind you, given that I have more kilometers in this House - than you have not at last - what these lawyers from different angles have done wrong to this day, what I have done wrong in the National Assembly and therefore no one has responded, except that the state has invested millions and millions in individual companies, and in the end it has led these companies to the fact that today people are "flying on the roads" - and this is an eminent Slovenian company, which is not right. And all I'm saying is to finally listen to the opposition at some point, if it's right, and then admit "mea maxima culpa" that such a law has no legal basis, or if the institutions have already said that there is no need for these changes or that it will make a legal mess, I just want to know who, if it was for Šubica at the time, for Uroš Aljančič, for Paul Kodra. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Are you done? Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, the application is in progress. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to present just a few clarifications on the debate so far on the amendment currently under discussion. First of all, as regards the procedure led by the Ministry of Justice concerning the preparation of the novel proposal. It is true that the Council for Criminal Law, as the consultative body of the Minister, has addressed this issue. That's what the world did at the March 30th meeting. From the minutes of this meeting, I should like to read the opening paragraph: "The Minister initially said that the Ministry of Justice has received more than 70 comments on KZ-1 which are collected in the table. He pointed out in particular that KZ-1 was unclear about its use for juvenile delinquents. The courts are supposed to issue decisions to put an end to proceedings against juvenile offenders. On the basis of this, the Minister called on the members of the Criminal Law Council to discuss Article 4 of KZ-1." It is clear from this that the Criminal Law Council has addressed this issue, not on its own initiative, but because it has been informed of the practice of the courts, which has indicated that we have a serious problem in the area of criminal proceedings against minors. It has been shown below that courts either stop proceedings or conduct proceedings, or interrupt proceedings, some consider that an old criminal code applies when it comes to minors, some consider that a new criminal code is in force, some consider that it is a legal void, some consider that it should apply the anti-constitutional law and that, inter alia, there has been an interruption of one procedure and a request for constitutionality assessment. In such a situation, which is extremely unusual, I do not recall a case which would have to be interpreted so differently by the courts on such fundamental issues, so in such a situation the Ministry has concluded that it is necessary to avoid the risk of proving that the juvenile penal code does not apply at all. For the first time, because we are convinced at the Ministry that neither any of you, nor those who have written the law, nor those who have introduced the law into the procedure, nor those who have adopted the law, have some of you previously been Members of Parliament - none of you had this purpose. We were sure of that at the Ministry. At the same time, we were aware of the risks associated with this situation. For if it were proved to be such a vague provision that it could not be applied in practice, then all those who had been processed under this code of 1 Corinthians 1: 11. 2008 were entitled to apply compensation claims against the State. These requests could be awarded either by the domestic courts or by the Strasbourg court. And this is what the government wants to avoid in every way. This was also the purpose for which we went to this amendment of the penal code. When you discuss the legal opinions that have emerged in the legislative process, in particular the opinion of the Government's legislative service and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, I should point out that it is necessary to be precise here. The Government has amended the original proposal for a text which it has tabled in the procedure. And the opinions cited so far referred to the original text. Let me read to you that part of the opinion of the parliamentary legislative and legal service, which was presented at the meeting of the home working body, which later also supported the amendment of the Penal Code. Parliamentary Service says: "We believe that these amendments remove the uncertainties of the proposed changes to the current regime." Also: "As regards the coverage of the punishment of minors in the current KZ-1 conceptual issue of system regulation as such, such a solution to the problem that has arisen primarily in the practice of the courts is appropriate in our view because it is clearer than it has so far defined which criminal code and how it is applied in the case of minors if the perpetrators of crimes are." And also: "With these proposed amendments, let us avoid problems at this time, but let us resolve what has led to the introduction of the bill into the legislative process, it is said, because of the lack of clarity as to which law and how it is used in the case of juvenile offenders," if I use an old dictatorship or a word link, "which was previously in force by the KIC. We therefore assess that the proposed amendments, from the point of view of the competence of our service, are "acceptable" - that is, parliamentary legislative and legal services. This is an opinion which is relevant. Therefore, I cannot agree with the opinion of those who feel that the solution that we are dealing with now means nothing and is unnecessary. Not at all because the text is in good measure in line with the position taken by the Supreme Court in the principle legal opinion. If you look at, if you compare the dictates of that article proposed by the Government and the dictated by the Supreme Court, you will see minimal differences. I'm not going to say they're irrelevant, and I'm going to be able to talk about that further, and in fact it's just a little bit of a commotion of both dictions. And this is just a confirmation for us that the government did the right thing when it went into this change. When comparisons were made with the legal effects of the Supreme Court’s principle legal opinion, it was said that it was misleading if someone claimed that these legal opinions were binding only on the Chambers of the Supreme Court. In this regard, I must invite all those who doubt that you are reading the Law on the Courts, which expressly states in the second paragraph of Article 110 that principled legal opinions bind only the Chambers of the Supreme Court and not the lower courts. The function of these principled legal opinions is, of course, in uniting the case-law, not that the Supreme Court would simply accept them and itself. However, formally, the scope of these principled legal opinions is far more limited than is the range of judicial decisions taken by the Supreme Court in specific cases and which in certain cases may also have the effects of precedent. If the lower courts are not bound by these principled legal opinions, then perhaps the best evidence is that if it were, for example, a court requiring a constitutional review of the Penal Code should withdraw this request and proceed with the procedure. According to my records, it didn't do it. This means that we still have a mixed case-law on this issue, and this is only an additional reason that strengthens the Government in the belief that this issue needs to be resolved in a manner that is sufficiently precise, with legislative change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u97	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. I wonder all this time when I'm listening to today's debate, just what people think, maybe watching a direct broadcast on the third television program, or the journalists who are listening to it, what the hell are we arguing about here. You have to ask yourself what this is all about. As colleagues from the largest opposition party have said, we are arguing over a minor LDS decision. Is it true? Is the issue of punishing or disciplining minors really irrelevant? As the Minister of Justice said earlier, the District Courts, in view of the lack of clarity in the provisions of the current Code, have stopped the procedures by which those young people who had violated the law should be punished. Is this really irrelevant to this society? Let us ask ourselves what would happen if a recent incident in Sevnica, when minors threatened their fellow citizens at a picnic with an electric saw, attacked them, wounded them, had worse consequences. What if someone got hurt worse? What if we killed someone? What if, by chance, in Slovenia, what is happening around the world is that various disturbed students in primary schools are killing their classmates in high schools, and then the whole case would come before a court, and that would have found that they can't be punished. Gentlemen of the SDS, do you really think it is so normal and so clearly stated in the present Code that it was necessary to prevent it from being clarified at all possible burdens? I wonder why the president of the Committee on Internal Policy had to lead so strongly - and today the arrogance has told us - this meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, where many Members of the ruling coalition wanted to explain things, ask him to give us his words, but he did not give us, but he did end the debate violently. There is a magnetogram about this and you can see what the truth is. Not only represent one part of the truth! Then what's the problem? As Mr Gorenak said today, in the Sturm code. I'm sorry, I don't take this code as a Smurf, nor as a Zalari, nor as any other personal code. This is a code of the Republic of Slovenia and if you are so terribly ashamed that you will have to fix something that the former Minister has not arranged properly - listen and then let's put the suitcases away and go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Your Honor. So this whole procedure in this law has shown, and of course, the content that the law is harmful, that it is unnecessary and that it is based on wrong assumptions. However, if we go in line - that it is harmful: I will read again what the government's legislative service has written 30.3.: "As is evident from our explanations below, not only is the bill unnecessary but it is also technically flawed in its entirety, so that it is only proposed in the legislative process, and even its adoption, that it can cause great damage in the field..." and so on. Is there anything else to add? I don't think so. A similar record was made by the Legislative Service of the National Assembly, and something similar in a different form was written by the Supreme Court. I don't think these are some third-rate bodies, but they have some weight and their opinions, and they probably have some weight. That such a proposed law was unnecessary also shows that from the three substantive articles to this law you have already "scanned" two in the coalition itself. I don't know if it's such a huge void - then why did you delete these articles to keep causing a legal void, probably not. It's unnecessary. But not to completely expose ourselves, but you kept one article for the better, for the artistic impression. That the law was based on wrong assumptions: that the current Minister, Mr Zalar, at the beginning of this law, said that there was a huge void, a great void, I imagined a black hole in the Penal Code when I listened to it. I don't even know how the country worked until now if it's such a terrible void; but look at it! The Supreme Court said it wasn't true! And let's leave the Supreme Court, which apparently the Minister doesn't appreciate too much, and I'll tell you why later; I'll talk about those who are here today. At 14.42, State Secretary Boštjan Škrlec said: "The Supreme Court has eliminated some of these uncertainties by adopting a principle legal opinion and the Government welcomes the adoption of such a legal opinion. Such a legal opinion is also in line with what the Ministry has always argued that there is no legal void." Whoa! But the minister said it was some terrible legal void. What does that mean that the minister worked voluntarily to get past the Ministry's opinions? I don't think so; one got in a fight. Whether the minister was exaggerating earlier when he was talking about a terrible legal void, or whether the Secretary of State wanted to ease the matter today, he said there was no legal void and agreed with what the Supreme Court said. Take whatever you want. Let's just say that I take the assumption that the minister was working, beyond his opinion, on his own initiative, beyond the opinion of the Ministry. But you two can work out who's telling the truth. And further, the Secretary of State has also said this, and I quote: "This is all particularly important because the issue of clarity and certainty of this issue will not be judged by the Constitutional Court, before which the proceedings have already been initiated. This will undoubtedly have to be the last word of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where those who are accused minors will undoubtedly be exercising their rights in proceedings as accused minors in the end. This court has already adopted a very strict criterion and position on questions of legality and certainty." Now I ask you, did the Supreme Court not take this into account in its opinion? Does the Supreme Court not know the position of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg? Yes, hello! I know you're not going to say that, but you're saying that by what you say it is. Don't move now! Because, in the final stage, if this is the case, if we put it together in a country of logic, it means that the Supreme Court is not a higher guardian, for example, or a higher court in this judicial hierarchy, because you say that it probably does not know how the European Court of Human Rights judges. That's what you said, not me. Moreover, if this is the case, then we should probably have three laws with one and the same topic in Slovenia: one for the Supreme Court, which is doing something its own way, probably; then probably for some lower courts that, of course, work again on their own; but probably still translated, I don't know, the code of the European Court, because they are something special and we don't know how to do it, because our judicial science doesn't know how to do it, because they will have to decide in the final stage. That's what you said. The final word will have to be in Strasbourg, and they already know how, they have strict standards. The Supreme Court probably doesn't know what strict criteria they have. Gentlemen, you're talking a little strange! I have also said that the law is harmful; it is also harmful to parliamentary practice, because what you have done in parliamentary practice with this law or in relation to this law is what we really need to ask ourselves. Nothing applies to you, you are not subject to the rules of business, you are not subject to the practice that was in the National Assembly, you are applying some new practice that applies to you, which is supposed to be written on your skin. And, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned today, what if other Vice-Presidents of the other bodies of the National Assembly began to convene their own meetings if they did not like the President, regardless of whether he is from another party. Yeah, where would you go? You have now made that clear: because the Chairman of this committee is not from the right party, he is not; from our party, but now the Vice-President, who is ours, will refer to this. Put yourself in the opposite order - what about where this is replaced? Is that what you want?Oh, my God! You want to order a barn?Oh, my God! You're doing this with your procedure! And one more thing. Obviously, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not apply to all the same. It's not working. One - one interpretation applies to your coalitions. The president here, the president, not the current one, the previous one, the name doesn't matter, said, "The Rules of Procedure are interpreted by me." Yeah, that's right. Right. However, the Rules of Procedure also interpret at the meeting of the working body of the President; it is from your party or from the opposition - it does not matter. You alone attribute this right to yourself by the rules of procedure given to you by the Rules of Procedure - this is fine, but this is not the case with the opposition! No, it's another article! That's something else. In addition, I would say something else: what has been shown in the conduct of the meetings, and what I have said lately, seems not to be working according to some rules, that the rules do not apply, that the rules do not apply, that the opinion of the Supreme Court does not apply to any other instance, that they have said something of their own, but that does not apply to lower instances, that you are working from a position of power. I'm not going to use another word, which is also used, if it's working from a position of power, today I'm going to shut it up, maybe, I hope it doesn't have to be used. And you say you're the authority - yes, that's right! It's right that you're in power, because that's why you won the election. But rule the people of God! Go, go, go, go, go, go! And do not show authority by hindering others from the rights that you take for yourselves. If the President interprets the Rules of Procedure at the meeting, it shall apply to all - both yours and yours. And to rule also means to make good suggestions, not just to make bad suggestions that are harmful, that are inappropriate. Make good suggestions and insist with those. We will also support you with good suggestions. You don't have to say your power, your authority only on such proposals, where it's just about saying power and "scanslate" itself two-thirds of the articles that are substantive. Rule with good suggestions! We'll all support you! Rule in such a way that you will also give a different word to the thinkers without any proposal coming from other thinkers or otherwise politically oriented - no, this is not possible because it is under another article. For us, that's true, but you're doing it under another article. That doesn't apply to you. Rule in such a way as to give your word to others! And let me remind you, because I'm not here for the first time in this term, we haven't come to a place of mind that way to take someone's word. No way, because you had one that would immediately remind you of that! However, when I am in this case, I will not say the name, but exactly opposite me was the gentleman who sat in the government today, high in the hierarchy, who also did such things on his board, that there was no "furma", no rules of procedure, but was the only exception. But now you've generalized his behavior, and that's not right. Rule in such a way that you give your word to those who think differently so that they can express their opinions. Not that you'll always say yes, but you're covered by another article! It's not true. It's all the same article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u100	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to explain because it is clearly necessary to explain why some of the public statements made by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice have used the words on the standards used by the European Court of Human Rights and developed by that Court. The issue is that, in the framework of legislative regulation, we want to take into account those standards that apply to legislative regulation, including those established by the Strasbourke Court. It is therefore not a matter of being brought before the courts. On the contrary, it is a matter of legislative standardisation. And you know, and I will repeat this once again that the Constitutional Court in this landmark decision on lawyers has warned both the Government and the legislator, as well as the Parliament, that they are obliged to regulate certain issues legally if they feel that this is necessary. The government thinks it's necessary. And now, why he thinks this is necessary, this is now a key issue, for two main reasons. For the first time, we are bound by the Constitution. Article 28 states: "No one shall be punished for an act for which the law has not established that he is a criminal and has not prescribed a penalty for him before the act has been committed." So, once again, this issue of criminal offences must be regulated by law. This is one of the basic civilizational gains. This standard is one of the fundamental civilisational gains, which is also strongly supported by the case-law of both our Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has had several opportunities in its rich history to develop this doctrine of determination in law. And now let me tell you what are the main criteria by which the European Court of Human Rights assesses the situation we are in. The first criterion used by the European Court of Justice is to verify that the regulation governing it is formally binding. There is no doubt that this law must be that criminal offences and criminal liability cannot be regulated by a normative act that is lower than the law. While in some cases, the Strasbourg Court has in no way recognised a certain status of formal legal source in a situation such as this, it has also recognised the case law. However, provided that this case law is stable. Is this criterion met in our case? According to the Ministry of Justice, no. Why not? Because, in principle, the Supreme Court’s legal opinion is not judicature and cannot be classified within the time limit of the case-law. The case law only means the decision of the court, namely, the Supreme, i.e. the final decision, in a specific case. This is not a decision in a specific matter, it is only a principled legal opinion. Secondly, the case law in Slovenia on this issue is obviously not stable. A settled case law doesn't even mean you only have one judicata. You must have more to claim that this is a consistent case law, and the Strasbourke Court has ruled on this on several occasions. We don't have that kind of judicature in Slovenia at all. The second criterion that the European Court of Human Rights has developed in relation to this issue of determination in the law, which is essential for assessing whether or not the rule is in conformity with the Constitution, is a criterion of quality of law. This quality of law is assessed on two criteria. The first criterion is related to the accessibility of the rule. This accessibility is measured by the criteria of the Strasbourg court, in particular by the publication of the regulation. That's an important difference. If we prescribe the special validity of the juvenile penal code, such a provision must be published. And you know that laws are published in the Official Journal, so anyone can get acquainted with them. The general legal opinions of the Supreme Court shall not be published in the Official Journal. This criterion is not met. The second criterion used by the European Court of Justice in its assessment of whether the regulation is of sufficient quality to allow it to cease the test that a matter is sufficiently regulated by law is the predictability of this regulation. The Court states that only those who are formalised with sufficient precision can be considered a legal norm so as to enable citizens to regulate their actions. Therefore, the Court has repeatedly raised the demand that citizens be able to predict in advance - to a level that is reasonable in the circumstances - the consequences of their conduct. It is with this criterion that this latter criterion of predictability has so far been used that the European Court of Human Rights, in its case-law, has mostly ruled that the individual legislation of the Member States of the Council of Europe does not meet the criterion of determination in law. The government wants to avoid this risk. We do not claim that this is a legal void - I repeat again, this comes from legislative materials - but we want to avoid such an explanation. And one more thing. The courts may, at best, be a negative legislator, especially for the Constitutional Court, if it finds that a provision is not in accordance with the Constitution. However, he cannot be a positive legislator, and this function is reserved for Parliament, particularly when it comes to determining the offences and criminal responsibility of the perpetrators for those crimes. For this reason, we believe that it is essential that this issue be addressed by the law adopted by this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please. Mr. Jerovšek, as I recall, I was in the hall, haven't you discussed it yet? [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I am very grateful to the Minister that he has now declared, I hope that those who wonder how the Secretary of State has dared to predict that one of the Slovenian citizens will press charges before the European Court of Human Rights. If you only take statistics into account, you will see that Slovenian citizens, given the number of our population, are happily taking the lead in the number of complaints brought before the European Court of Human Rights, which means that they are still aware of the latter, or indeed the latter, but of the possibility of exercising their rights. And given that I have already said in the introduction that the criminal code is an extremely serious matter, of course it can be expected that such actions will be brought before the European Court of Strasbourg, because both the defendants and the defendants themselves, the defendants and then the convicts will, of course, be aware of this possibility. In addition to what the Minister has said, she would add to the European Court of Justice; the European Court of Justice may decide on a particular case to be taken into account, also directly, specifically on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights and, of course, the relevant protocols that have been adopted later, in particular protocol number seven, dealing specifically with criminal law and criminal proceedings. In its judgment, the European Court of Justice may also order a specific State to regulate the matter accordingly later. Thus, even when we accept this amendment, we should in fact avoid the possibility that, later on, the European Court of Justice will impose on us, to what extent do we have to amend the criminal code in order to meet the standards and principles that the Council of Europe in the European Convention on Human Rights and the relevant protocols require of the Member States. That's one thing. Second thing. I took seriously Mrs Eve Irgle's warning at the outset that we should not start any theatre with regard to this amendment of the law in the National Assembly. And yes, I'll stick to that. However, I must conclude that it would be right for you, Mrs Irgle, in particular your colleagues to take you into account in this good direction. Isn't it? With regard to this theatre, which has already taken place here, I would look at the opinion of the government's legislative service, which has been cited here on several occasions, but only in those parts that fit the speakers. In this opinion, the Government Law Service of 30. This year it was said at the beginning of page 17, "the first written comments made of 2. 11. 2007, says in the previous term, "we are," - says the government's legislative service, "in the final part of the report, our assessment that the proposed legal project is in our opinion completely inadequate for further proceedings." Can you imagine? The government service, at the time, said that this draft of the new penal code was completely inadequate. But despite the then opinion of the government's legislative service, the then coalition did not listen to these warnings. And it is, you will not believe, what 118 amendments then adopted in the National Assembly. At a single meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, they were discussed. And if I did the right thing, about the Internal Policy Committee, which, by no chance, was led by a coalition member at the time, he spent 118 amendments - he accepted two amendments for about one minute, following the current lane. It is no wonder, therefore, that today and even in the future we will find out what the shortcomings of this code are and the responsible proposer will come here with a novel. Not because we would have anything against former Minister Sturm, but because we are aware of the criminal code and what criteria apply to criminal law. However, the government service in this opinion - by the way, the director of this government service is the same as it was at the time, in the previous mandate, and the same person signed this report and also the then 2007 report - this government service wrote: "We would suggest that the Ministry, in its view of necessity and by its professional authority, may provide an appropriate interpretation of the law on its application and validity for minors, as we have explained in detail above." Yeah, that's something really revolutionary! But the Ministry of Justice would now give the courts a professionally correct explanation of how the courts should apply the Penal Code? Amazing things! So far, I have been convinced that the authentic interpretation of a law can be formed and presented only by the National Assembly. It is good that they have not written down that the Ministry should also address this correct professional explanation to the European Court of Human Rights on a case-by-case basis, so that the European Court of Justice will then know how our criminal code should be applied and in which cases it should apply. I don't think there's a place here, in the National Assembly, and in this marriage, to wipe the fools out of such serious things. And that's what I'd say. This opinion, which has been widely discussed today, by the Law and Legal Services of the National Assembly, has taken into account and adopted three amendments: Article 1 and Article 2 to be deleted and Article 3 to adopt a more appropriate and clear formulation, in which cases certain provisions of the previous Criminal Code adopted in 1994 and subsequently amended are applicable to juvenile offenders, and in which cases a new Criminal Code can be applied, of course, to minors. And if we have come to such a provision and to such an amendment for 375th, which is quite clear, then I do not see, I do not see any rational reason to deny it if we can prevent certain things that are certainly harmful to the country from doing so. Of course, I am also grateful to the Minister for explaining how he feels about this principled legal opinion of the Supreme Court, perhaps Mr Petan now understands that this principled legal opinion binds only the Chambers of the Supreme Court, that he may not in any way commit the President of the Senate to any lower court which will decide, because he, like you, Mr Gorenak, interprets the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Internal Policy, as well as the Judge in a particular case based on the law, as he considers the law to be applicable. So these things aren't easy and, above all, you can't believe the explanations, the typical laymen, when it comes to such damning things. However, I would like to mention something else when there was a speech that, of course, we were waiting for the Supreme Court's principled legal opinion and, of course, the proceedings are pending before the Constitutional Court and it is logical that we should wait. I will only remind you, in the previous term, that the members of the opposition have brought proceedings before the Constitutional Court to establish compliance with the Constitution of the Police Act in the part that spoke of the Kurats. At that time, the drafter of the Law on Religious Freedom did not object in any way to the adoption of the Law on Religious Freedom and to the arrangement of the matter, just as he then considered it most appropriate and did not wait for any opinion or decision of the Constitutional Court. By the way, however, this question is interesting as to how this judgment of the Constitutional Court will help, but would not want anyone, God forbid, to disqualify in advance, but one of the three authors who designed this penal code at the time and therefore received a rich fee, one of these three authors is now a judge of the Constitutional Court. Would it be possible to expect that he already has an opinion in advance on this criminal code and its compliance with the Constitution? I don't hope to say anything, but here's the thing -- one thinks of a lot of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Check-in is on. Before that, I'm giving Dr. Gorenak a replica. Do you want to discuss it? Did you sign up? Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In practice, it has been shown that the law in certain articles is unclear and ambiguous and needs to be supplemented. The Penal Code does not allow for effective prosecution of juvenile delinquents. Judges dealing with juvenile delinquents have major difficulties in applying the new Criminal Code, as it allows for different interpretations so that there are doubts as to whether it is possible to prosecute juvenile offenders. It is unacceptable that different judges have different views in the interpretation of the Penal Code. The Penal Code must be clear and clear in all articles. It is true that the trials under the new code are already under way and that some cases have been completed, but doubt remains, because, as we like to say, the judgment is "sit down" and can be annulled, especially when it comes to judging a young adult in return. The new law makes sense in the part where the law is written too clearly. Transitional provisions shall only mention those provisions of the old penal code relating to the provision of educational measures for minors. However, this provision does not refer to criminal liability, so the problem for judges in the decision-making process is so much greater. When it interferes with human rights, legislation must be particularly clearly recorded. According to the experience I have, these are the minors who are among the more dangerous because most of them have not stopped their criminal activity even after the institution, but have increased. The institutes are a school for criminals, according to my behaviour and experience, because about 25% of them have been integrated into normal society and adopted the standards and laws prescribed by law, the rest have joined the underground, which is tolerated by democracy. And that's what's not acceptable to anyone. It's foolish to pretend that these are children who don't know what they're doing. They are offenders, they are not children, they can be very dangerous to the society in which they live, and without real and decisive legislation and discipline, they are the real evil for democracy. In the event of a coup d'état and irregular legislation, there is a great danger to the society in which they are moving, people without hindrance, uncompromising, constantly proving themselves before others and wanting to stand out at all costs. Let's not get carried away, this is the evil of modern times, and if we don't know how to write down the laws and the retraining ourselves, it's very bad for us. Violence, killings, school shootings are already taking place in Europe - these are acts that are frightening to normal society. Violence, which is getting closer to us, can be prevented and plagued by legislation and the consistent implementation of laws. They're not children, they're the weapons of the mafia, which is counting on the loose legislation of the company they're operating in. Now is not the time to swindle, now it is necessary to write a law that will allow a fair and safe life for honest people in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Although I have already said most things about the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party at the outset, what our opinion on the novelty of this penal code is, however, that there are clearly some things that need to be said more than once. Dear Minister, you, in the vast majority of your debates, as well as in your statements earlier, not just today, have said that there is a legal void in this work that you are updating today. Although you wanted to move away from this statement today, you have already done so several times during this procedure when we began to consider this novel penal code. Then today your secretary of state came here and said there was no legal void. It is said that there is something 'numbering' between the Secretary of State and the Minister: one speaks one, the other speaks another. We also know that this novel is also opposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Law Service, which says that there is no legal void in the criminal code, even saying that there is no need to change the penal code. Finally, it says that it is harmful in terms of the introduction of ambiguity into the legal system, even the Supreme Court says the same, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly says the same. So I'm wondering why you think there's still a legal void here. I believe that we have only opened this issue because the penal code it has drawn up must be broken and adopted in the previous term, Dr Lovro Šturm. It's the only thing and it's just a political one and not much of a professional question. And here I think that's a big problem. Therefore, at this point alone, I cannot support the novelity of the penal code. And I'm also asking you to explain again why you're saying there's a legal void here if everyone else who's doing this is saying there's no legal void? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Yeah, looks like we're gonna have to do it again. I'll do it again. It's not a legal void. The government always claims that it is not a legal void, but it does not untie the government, that it does not try to improve the text to such an extent that there will be no doubt. Especially because the case is pending before the Constitutional Court. Especially for that. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]] And if I may continue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u111	Please. Only Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u112	I have also said this in public several times that the risk that we are at risk of here and that we can dissuade it, at least from the moment we adopt the law, is the risk of compensation. If it turns out that the Constitutional Court or later, perhaps the Strasbourg Court feels differently than we now all claim in the National Assembly - and we cannot say that this is not impossible. What's going on? All minors prosecuted for offences prescribed by the Penal Code after 1. 11. 2008, they're in a situation where they're being processed illegally. This includes those who would possibly be in custody and, of course, those against whom, for example, educational and other measures against minors in criminal proceedings would be imposed. In comparison, I should like to give you information on the extent of these damages, which could have occurred in Slovenia in 2008, we have dealt with 2,259 cases against juvenile delinquents and that in these 2,259 cases, together in 2008, as defendants, 2915 minors were dealt with. As you can see, these numbers aren't that small! And why, why, in fact, in the financial crisis now, why would the government take the risk of an additional budget being charged due to compensation?Oh, my God! There's no reason for that. This is one of the reasons why we believe that it is essential that we also deal with this issue with the law, in addition to those mentioned earlier. For, today, tomorrow, when the media are full of reports on what is going on in the National Assembly, most of those who are actually concerned with these issues may still see and read what the Supreme Court thinks, what the legislator thinks. Five years from now, no one will ever know about it, nor will they know about the principle of legal opinion. If this issue is not regulated by law, we may again be questioned in terms of the quality of this provision, which is not. That's why the government wants us to have him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Before Mrs Irgle's debate, I really sincerely wondered what was the purpose of such a major debate and the importance the opposition attached to this law. I have found today, now after this debate, that the only intention is to prove that Dr. Sturm's former minister was infallible and that he could not adopt a law that we could not fully defend, because he also has a small possibility of poor understanding. Mrs Irgle, in other words, you said this in your debate. Now, why am I going to stand up for myself? Because the opinion of the Supreme Court and the proposal for a law adopted in the text, with the exception of small differences, are completely the same. One and the other texts refer to the application of the old law in certain provisions applicable to minors. And I don't know why it would be good if there were differences in court conduct, that we also have a legal solution that would sanction such possible different behaviours. And that's all. Judges who will act wisely and will expect to work on the basis of Instance as soon as their decision is reached. Whoever doesn't will have to work on the basis of the law. And in this part, the law is useful. What's wrong with accepting it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The Minister has said several times at the time of this bill, and again today, that procedures are being halted, that the courts do not know how to decide what they think. He listed us here and therefore estimated that something needed to be changed or the amendment of the penal code should be corrected. He took this very seriously, professionally, and prepared a good novel with exactly four articles. At the same time, the Government's legislative and legal service has said that the justice ministry of the existing regime is misinterpreting it and therefore, with the proposed amendments, it is actually doing it wrong. And in their view, the criminal code is clear, understandable and appropriate. The Law-Legal Service in the National Assembly also assessed the law by saying that the proposed amendments introduce additional confusion, seemingly establishing the simultaneous application of both criminal laws, in short, that the proposed regulation would therefore be unclear and even misleading. At a meeting which you yourself know has not been carried out in accordance with the proper Rules of Procedure, you deleted paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Act in the explanatory memorandum or in this so-called minutes because it was the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, i.e. on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thus, two articles of a highly prepared novel prepared by the Minister remain, and this other article only speaks of when the novel enters into force. The Minister was at both meetings, at which he was so-called, which took place under the chairmanship of Vice-President Kolaric and then at a meeting convened by her President, Mr Gorenak, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Minister, you are also a lawyer, and as a lawyer, we could probably be enlightened as to whether this meeting was okay or probably not with the meeting chaired by Mr Kolarič, if you have also come to the meeting convened by Mr Gorenak on 12 May. Or you understood this invitation to the meeting as it was intended and as it was called upon, that is, according to the Rules of Procedure. And to come back, you've taken the job seriously, you've prepared a novel that, as it were said, contained four articles, three substantive articles and a fourth, which determines when it comes into force. You've deleted two of the contents, one of them's left, we've put an amendment on it. All the time we feel that the novel is not necessary, this is explained to you, not only by us, but also by the lawyers of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government, the National Assembly. In particular, I was disturbed by your demeaning attitude towards the legal principle of the Supreme Court's legal opinion. As far as I know, the proceedings shall be conducted in such a way that the representatives of the Supreme Court shall meet with all the Presidents of the higher courts. And only then in the second round do they decide and draw up such a principled legal opinion that you have said that if it is, or if it is not, no one is bound to do so or just by the courts that you quoted. In short, I would not expect the Minister to do so, for you are the first to defend judges or the judicial service, the higher court, to take into account their opinions and not to evaluate them here before the Slovenian public. As the news has been said, we objected, and only Article 4, when it comes into force, do we really not need and remain in the case of the deletion of Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I think it's best if I answer the card when the memories are still fresh. You know, there have been considerable differences in the legal opinions taken by the two legal services; the Government's legislative service and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We, as the bill-maker, somehow found ourselves between the hammer and the hammer. What the government service wanted to be an appropriate dictatorship for it was that the legislative service demanded that we remove from our proposal. Otherwise, the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament will not be able to support this text. So you can't know that, I'm explaining it to you now. From here on, the difference, taking into account what I told you earlier, is that you come from opinions that were prepared before we tabled the amendment and then supported it on the parent's working body. This part of the difference between the two legal services was crucial, it was essential and relates to the final part of Article 375 of the Penal Code, which is now the subject of the novel. With regard to the question you asked me to define what was going on at both meetings of my mother's working body, let me say again what I have already said publicly: I will not define myself to do so. If I had defined myself, I would actually have crossed the limits of my powers. This is, in my opinion, Parliament's internal affairs and this issue should be resolved by Parliament. However, I am obliged to respond to the invitation of the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to the agenda items convened by this Committee. So I responded to all the invitations I received. With regard to the deletion of the two originally envisaged articles, yes, this is due to coordination with the parliamentary legislative service and also to the recommendation that, if already possible, the breach of the Penal Code should be as limited as possible. And that's what we did. With regard to the principle of legal opinion of the Supreme Court and the procedure in which that opinion arose. It is known to me that the views of those who participated in both the first stage of the registration session, which forms a proposal for a position, and in the second phase, when all the judges of the Supreme Court decide to do so, there were no unanimous decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister has just said that he does not want to define what was going on at the illegal meeting convened by the government Members after the 4th meeting. He does not want to be defined because he knows that, with as much legal conscience as he has, he should say that this is the worst attack that has ever occurred to parliamentary democracy. That this is the concept for the abolition of parliamentary democracy that Mr Anderlič has established at this meeting. And it's not true, Mr. Minister, I think you're deceiving the public by stating what the Constitution says, that no one should be punished for an act that is not governed by law - that is true, but not the Penal Code. To date, no special offences committed by minors have been mentioned in any of the Penal Codes in the special work. And as president of the biggest court, it didn't bother you, and now all of a sudden, it bothers you. It didn't bother you before. And it is your duty to prepare a law on juvenile responsibility. And this is actually the law that would contain this, and you are deceiving the public, and you are not doing the work that is your duty. However, you are changing the Penal Code mainly because and only because it bothered you at the time of your creation, because there are certain incriminations of crimes that will also affect your tycoons against your people. Jankovic will also go through, which is now a million euros, and his Cherin, they've just announced without anything, because you're protecting the tycoons because this farce in the courts is in politics. Now you've abolished all the laws that advertised 14 days ago that they would go to the tycoons. Here you are not just preparing legislation, breaking the Penal Code systematically and planned and this is just the beginning. You are working against the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is the worst thing this Parliament allows itself, which means the destruction of parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I am grateful for your intervention because it allows me to say one more thing now. See, in the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Penal Code, the applicable penal code reads: "Special criminal codes lay down the criminal liability of minors or minors and legal persons." With regard to the fact that it should be a specific criminal code, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stated, inter alia: "The fact is that this special law for minors was not prepared at the same time as the new criminal code. This was our job at the time when this code was adopted, which made it a problem." It's original here, and I agree with you here. If this criminal code had been prepared for minors at the same time as the Penal Code, which had otherwise been in force since 1 November 2008, this problem would not have been present. Because it wasn't done, there was a problem. The additional problem is that neither the transitional provisions of the Penal Code provide for a period within which the legislator should adopt this special criminal code for minors. That'd be right. This should be foreseen. And I can only assure you that this is an absolute priority for the Justice Ministry, that we will prepare this juvenile penal code as soon as possible and that we have already started with appropriate preparations in this regard last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much. You said today: "There is no legal void."that's what you said today. 23. 3. At 19.55 in the Polemik show, you said: "The main problem is that the Penal Code cannot be applied at all to crimes committed by minors. It's a disaster. It's a real scandal." That's what you said to Minister Sturm: "You're an ass. You don't know anything." I don't want you to be told by your successor in four years or whenever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Of course only those who have time to discuss. Mr. Anderlich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u126	I will not support this amendment because the proponents have said that they have only tabled it to make the law empty and, of course, they would not publish that single provision that would remain to be published and enter into force at any time. So, the point is that they try to make a theater out of this National Assembly, they want to do what is actually most unacceptable or unacceptable when it comes to the responsibility of Members to take the decisions needed to settle a matter in society. It is more than obvious that the last debate was also pure manipulation. There was also no speech in this statement on the legal void. But there was talk about not being given in a way that was clear and uniform for everyone to use everywhere because they could explain it differently. It is not surprising, therefore, to hear today a bunch of creatures, a bunch of references to various statements and various claims made by individual lawyers. Only I have not yet heard that the supposed gentleman, who happens to be Jerovšek, would also be used several times in this law and would be the only legal authority. What the fellow Member Jerovšek learned when he was here talking about things he obviously didn't follow, or he wanted to point his finger at something else. It did not happen, Mr Jerovšek, in that session that was concluded. This was followed by an urgent meeting of the Committee [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It took place at an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. The meeting was closed, but if we look at the meeting, which is really the subject of the speech and at which the report was issued for this meeting of the National Assembly, the majority of the Committee considered it different from the President's opinion that the conclusions of the National Assembly were so important that they must be implemented at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. It is not possible, Mr Jerovšek, or any other MP from the SDS to say, "We do not recognise this court!" As they say sometimes, and now again, I see that we want the authoritarian regime reintroduced into this country and so did the president of the Committee on Internal Policy. The highest authority in that country has decided: The Committee on Internal Policy must prepare all necessary in order to allow the meeting to continue until the meeting, in accordance with the 5th Regular Session. No, that doesn't apply to you. The decisions of the National Assembly do not apply to you. Then what? Let the will of someone who receives instruction from somewhere else and then hears how this legal order needs to be changed. It is necessary to bring the street "mile or force", not to recognise the Constitutional Court's decision, which says it has been adopted by five to four votes, fully valid, the one who says it is necessary to read in there about certain matters, that it is necessary to simply dismantle this way of ruling because it is illegal because it is illegal because it is not aware of what and so on. Please, that's all I'm asking. There's nothing against the Supreme Court's opinion. On the contrary, it's perfectly consistent. It is the responsibility of the National Assembly to comply with the Rules of Procedure, and once again read the opinion to which you refer, no one has the right, no time has passed before, no one has the right to judge whether the conditions for him to continue the meeting of the Committee or not. That's just not what it is. The Rules of Procedure explicitly prevent this by means of the way in which the provisions on which the assembly decides what is what it will be necessary to do. During the meeting, the President took care of the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, and he explained how it would be necessary to do so, you did not listen to him, the assembly twice, for the first time, asked for it, and for the second time explicitly stated how it was necessary to continue the activities of the National Assembly. Do you imagine that until eternity, the National Assembly would no longer be able to meet or conclude regular meetings of the National Assembly, the April regular meetings of the National Assembly, and if a person would like to say: “Now you can continue” until then, the assembly would not be able to carry out its legislative role normally. Things that are in the ordinary process cannot be referred to as urgent meetings anyway. The point is that some things need to be driven in the way they need to be driven. There were so many distractions today, turning things upside down. Mr Former President of the National Assembly knows well, in the previous term, when the ruling coalition did not respond to a point already on the agenda of the Defence Committee, there is a young gentleman sitting here who has been vehemently explaining how the Government does not allow this to be dealt with, and all the materials have been prepared, everything on the table and the ruling coalition has voted smoothly and they have said, of course, when we want to put this on the agenda, we will give the initiative and we will discuss it. That's not what it is until today. However, it referred to the issue of expensive purchases of military equipment, referring to matters related to some alleged trade and so on. I was the chairman of the committee at the time, and I said, "Go ahead, put it to the vote and they voted." But I wouldn't think a wise man would put a procedural proposal to the vote. But here someone says, no, I'm not going to do that; I'm talking about the Internal Policy Committee, where something else needs to be said. I'm not going to support the amendment, because it's only meant to "screw" the law in its essence, to sort out what the National Assembly has to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code is intended to eliminate the inconsistencies with regard to the validity of criminal law for minors, as the Penal Code applies [[K2-1]] of 1 October 2001 11. There are three different interpretations in 2008 and so there cannot be a law that can be used as authentic. Such a vague situation, however, is legally insurmountable and requires the removal of ambiguity after reflection and a sound debate so as not to give rise to a lack of clarity from the past, since the law must be unequivocal and the changes must be clear and not misleading. We are facing an increasing number of perpetrators of crimes, which are juveniles, and legislation is lacking, which is unacceptable for the rule of law. The law must also cover minors and thus fully fill the emptiness of the protection of the whole of society, the social community, against the unlawful conduct of any entity. The present law is only of a systemic nature and does not explain the purpose of the Penal Code [[K-1]] , but it follows different situations without a proper assessment, which is unsustainable from a legal point of view. The criminal liability of minors differs in some segments from that of adults, and the applicable Penal Code has also been satisfied. [[K-1]] with such arrangements. This, however, indicates the inconsistencies in the dynamics of the adoption of the Systemic and Special Penal Code. The purpose of the amendments must be to remove the confusion, there must be no doubt which Penal Code or its part will apply to minors. It is therefore necessary to consider and clarify the reasons for the amendment of the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I won't support the amendment because it doesn't deserve my support. It should be known, however, that the offence is a crime or committed by a minor or an adult, the consequences are here and must be adequately prevented and punished. It's just that in life, smart mistakes are conscious of and correcting them. Others, however, are condemned to repeat them indefinitely. I am pleased that today the Minister has responded as is necessary and that he has clearly drawn the line between the legislative and executive authorities, that he has confirmed, come to all meetings of the committee, because, of course, he wanted the law, which is not appropriate, that the law, which is lacking, should be supplemented, complete and improved. But, of course, he bumped into the pride of some who think what was once written down is just forever. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing so good about life that I can't be any better. And the practice of many courts in Slovenia has shown that we have a certain inadequacy here, that we can improve the law, correct the perpetrators of criminal offences to be properly punished. However, sanctions are intended to prevent such acts from being repeated, of course. And I am very interested in what are the objectives and motives of those who want us to have bad legislation in Slovenia, that, of course, obviously after the economic crisis is yet to be followed by a social crisis, but in social terms it is still necessary to "provok" politically. I am really afraid that all the thinking and actions in this direction are going to go to the worst possible extent for the current situation, the better for some who have only their own short-term political objectives. Of course I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Only in time. Procedural proposal. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President. At the table we received a change in the amendment sent by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which substantially changes the content of the amendment under discussion, so I ask you to decide, after the discussion is over, on this seminal vacation for informal consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the informal meeting of the College in room 217. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you. You heard the proposal. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment and the article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I'm suspending the session until 18.10. I'm inviting all the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet me in room 217 at the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u134	The meeting will continue with the vote on the amendment at 6.20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u135	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. I'm asking him to take his seats. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, the amendment tabled and continue to decide on this amendment tabled. Before that, I would like to point out explicitly that the SDS Group of Members has amended the second amendment to Article 3, which we discussed, by replacing it by reading: "Article 3 is deleted." This, of course, led to the decision-making process of the first amendment, which is under review by the President, for which the President had previously correctly and correctly concluded that he could not put it into consideration because he was not properly tabled. This has been said quite a bit in this session before, so I'm not going to talk about it. It should certainly be said that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is Article 131, paragraph 7, say that the amendment may be amended, supplemented or withdrawn by the amendment by the end of the discussion on the amendments to the article to which it proposed an amendment. This provision, of course, allows for only one solution, namely to vote on the amendment as defined by the amendment until the end of the debate. We will therefore decide on the amended amendment to Article 3. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I have to respond to that incorrect statement. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has also tabled a basic amendment, the first amendment that you have declared inappropriate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and you have unjustifiably rejected the amendment. For nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is there any legal basis for you to do as you did. And you didn't explain that either. I may not have been clear enough about this part, but you made a procedural mistake and abused the Rules of Procedure. The amended amendment has also been properly tabled, regardless of what you have said, because the Rules of Procedure are such that it allows amendments to be tabled, regardless of what anyone thinks of these amendments, does not allow any judgment and the amendments can be rejected, whatever the services of the National Assembly do, amendments can be justified as unnecessary, but a business provision must be applied. All other amendments, however, must be voted on by the President of the National Assembly. Since the way you did in this case at the beginning of the meeting means that you can now declare the law and publish it without a vote. This could also, on the basis of this interpretation of yours, when you have ruled that our amendment is not correct, even now, on the basis of the same procedure, you could declare the law on criminal proceedings adopted in the same way. This is not the case, and this amendment must therefore be voted on. Once again, the Group of Members acted in a perfectly correct manner and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when proposing at the beginning of the meeting, before addressing the item and now with the amendment of this amendment. And to the President of the National Assembly, we gave the opportunity to pass the correctional exam, as well as to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u137	I'm not going to argue with this place, this situation doesn't allow me, and I'm not going to discuss it. There were no exams and there were no exams. The fact is that Article 131, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure states that the applicant may complete, withdraw or amend the amendment by the end of the hearing. You have done so, regardless of what has been said before, and this amendment will be put to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I request applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I really try to keep a close eye on the situation in the National Assembly [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u139	Please, peace in the hall! Please listen to the speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u140	Of course, I am doing well for a fundamental reason because I am slowly perceiving a situation that I was not used to four years ago. Of course, I'm talking about the amendment and we're going to support this amendment that we tabled. I wasn't used to the situation because it was different. Today, I see that there are clearly double criteria, one for coalition Members, and one for the opposition's completely different criteria, which means a kind of precedent. Let's go to the amendment. The amendment proposes to delete, which is no longer the law. This is also perfectly logical, this is also perfectly normal because of the process we have been carrying out since 23. 3. From 9.55 to today, it has one common criterion, a common point, a common meter. This is called the discreditation of Minister Sturm. This was first done on 23 March 19.55 by the Minister when he said that it was a precedent, that it was a disaster, that the real scandal was the mistake of Minister Sturm, that it was impossible to judge minors. This has developed through all procedural complications to this day. In the meantime, the Rules of Procedure have been misused as many times as you want, according to the same article I have followed, we follow the same article today, but the result is always the same. The authorities are right. And that is also true, because you must take responsibility for the decisions that are obviously to be taken here today. Today, we hear from the same minister: there is no legal void. So, he denies himself of 23rd. 3. And with this, directly and indirectly, it says: power is right, power is us. And that's why it's going to be like we're going to say, even though it's not necessary, and even though we don't have any need for it. All the instances said, government, legislative, legal service, Supreme Court, Supreme Court, everyone said: There is no legal void. But the circus is because the government is right. And, of course, he's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u142	The amendment was in the middle of the hotel, but there is nothing around the place, so in the LDS Group we will not support it because we have nothing to support. Nor will we talk about the assessments of the work of the past minister, since he has been most discredited by those who are actively defending him. It has been found that the law is not perfect, that it has shortcomings, that minors who cause serious, serious crimes escape from detention, move freely and are not convicted, as it would be appropriate for the rule of law. I am pleased that the Ministry has proposed to amend the law so that the law will be better and more effective and that is why we are doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We're moving to [[...]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Respectable. An elegant opportunity was offered to get you out of this mud you caused, but of course also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u145	Dear colleague Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u146	Options [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u147	No controversy, no doubt. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u148	Do not take [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u149	Instructs others. [[...]] Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u150	is not [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u151	Explain your voice. [[...]] That's the first warning. Otherwise I'll have to stop you!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u152	It is not the greatest tragedy that this law changes. [[...]] It's just another function. But it's a mini-state coup, what happened during this procedure under this law. This remains in the analies, and this will be during the presidency of this President and of this coalition. There has never been such an attack on parliamentary democracy in this country. And I must say, I never imagined, after the 13 years of the parliamentary internship, something like this could happen. This is an unprecedented scandal. In a specific case, I will vote in favour of this amendment, which offers you an elegant way out. Otherwise, in further votes, I do not want to participate in this disgrace that is taking place in the National Assembly because of the procedure, the mini coup d'état, which will be followed by other attacks of democracy - it is impossible for a person with good intentions to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much. In my name, of course, I will support the amendment of our Group of Members. That's one more thing I want to quote. The government or the minister; I apologize for not knowing who; the government's legislative service said: "Whatever you write down, we are not interested, but we will adopt this law in the government." In fact, the government's legislative service says, "Because, in an accompanying letter to the proposal for that law, you explicitly inform us that when this law is submitted to the Government, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government relating to the services here are "not to be taken into account". At the same time, that is why we give this opinion. That means what? If a decision had already been made at the start, the government would adopt this law. While the Government itself, I apologize for not knowing who it is or whether Mr. Swickl has signed or Mr. Minister, I do not know, ordered the legislative service, its own legal and legislative service, we will violate the Rules of Procedure, we will violate all the provisions that govern this area. We're not going to take your opinion. This means that this thing is politically created and determined in the very beginning. It may also represent an overture in Dr. Pogorel's replacement. I don't know what it means, but the thing is so obvious, the thing is so presentable and the thing is so clear that you have the only smart and honorable way out of here to vote for this amendment, quickly hide this law and save your skin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The vote is under way. I'm very sorry. [[...]] The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear colleague Tanko, I've given you enough time, I've even waited for you to define yourself, but you haven't. Please, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u156	Mr President of the National Assembly, it would be more than fitting for you to review the suspended votes in this term of office in the National Assembly when you, on a proposal from any of the coalition, yourself, interrupt the vote and then allow explanations of vote. And an explanation of any other purposes. I note that this attitude towards the members of the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party, when you put us in some undetected position, in fact continues to ignore our proposals, and I think it would be very good if we had all the same vats. I know you've been in such a hurry to adopt this law. Whatever you've accepted is not good. And even what the minister was supposed to do and prepare a special marriage, he might have made in six months, and it was only last week that he said he had convened a meeting at which they agreed that it would be done. Apparently, other problems in the legislative field were actually more important than that and he was dealing with these things. I strongly suggest to you, Madam President, that you take into account our proposals we make at that time. I don't see any need for you to despise us, to ignore us. In your opening remarks and many interviews you have given, you have emphasized each time that you will be particularly sensitive to the opposition. None of that. And you will probably have to rebalance these statements in the next interviews you will again give to the media, just as you will need to rebalance the state budget's balance. Some of the conscious claims you have made have absolutely no basis in the specific actions you have in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, this is not just our conclusion, as others who accompany the meetings of the National Assembly note. On the one hand, very much tolerance for all proposals, during the debate, during the coalition's vote, on the other hand, marked contempt of the opposition party. In short, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly clearly do not apply to all the same. I am also sorry that, despite the fact that the vice-president of the opposition party was appointed to chair the meeting at this time, this schedule was interrupted, the meeting was cancelled and you began to conduct the meeting yourself. Apparently, you also have double criteria for vice-presidents, you have vice-presidents who are first-class and vice-presidents who are second-class. In short, your conduct as President of the National Assembly shows in this way only that you do everything to deepen the division, that the Rules of Procedure are not respected, that we have, in addition to the legal rules on which you decide that a matter is not appropriate, there is obviously a secret procedure in which other matters and other treatments are pending. I believe that these matters need to be settled, that things need to be put in the right place and also run as we have adopted with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I have to reject all of your allegations in full and consistently. All Vice Presidents are doing their job well, and I have no comment on any of them, and I don't think the others are. I must say that, as a rule, I am exclusively voting in this National Assembly alone and this is why I must say this, because you have already told the vice-presidents that I am saving those torments that I sometimes have here with your suggestions. [[...]] So it's also some gesture from me, as president, to the vice presidents. That's what happened, and that's how it's gonna go on. It's not hard for me to do it, I have to say it again. Today I have been particularly careful to give an opportunity either to explain to the vote or to any other procedural proposal. You haven't responded. I announced the vote, I said we were voting, I waited with the key, and I didn't get a response. I suspended the vote most of the time because of your proposals. This is no longer a debate and I am no longer giving you a chance. You're making a case-by-case proposal. If you give it to me, I will thank you, but what happened before was not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dear President, I propose that for the next meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, which will be very soon - I have received a call a few minutes ago - prepare a proposal for all the suspended votes in the National Assembly. It can, if you love it, also on the proposal of the opposition and on the proposal of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-14-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'll take that as an initiative. We're moving to 18. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the Assembly will consider four proposals by the Judicial Council for election to the judicial function by means of proposals for decisions and a communication from the Court of Justice in Ljubljana, the Criminal Section, concerning the action brought against the Member of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the four proposals of the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly for election to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice and the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and three District Courts in the District Court in Ljubljana. Between us, I welcome the President of the Council of Justice, Professor Janez Kranjc, and ask him if he wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Klavdija Erjavec to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sabine Kac to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Katja Rahne Breznik at the district court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Teje Svet Golouh to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, concerning a private action brought against a Member of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following blindness: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, Article II K 283/2008 of 10. 3. 2009, in connection with a private action brought against a Member of the National Assembly of Magi. Joyful Žerev for six offences of slander, under Article 170/1, 2 and 3 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of a member of the National Assembly of Mags. Joyful Žerjav and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the fifth session of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much and very much.
