ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 8th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Mr Milenko Ziherl, Mr Samo Bevk and Mr Jakob Presečnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION LAW, IN THE context of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Madam Minister Katarina Kresal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on International Protection, the basic objective of which is to eliminate the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was established by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 15.10.2008 concerning the relocation of applicants for international protection to a private address. The proposed amendment thus eliminates the found unconstitutionality, since the transfer of the applicant to a private address is no longer conditional on the full-occupied asylum home. However, an important substantive supplement to the law is provided by Article 5 of the draft law, which provides for the legal basis for the adoption of persons recognised as refugees by another Member of the European Union, provided that such person fulfils the conditions for obtaining refugee status under Slovenian law. That institute is introduced into the legal text with a view to burden-sharing between the Member States of the European Union, as some members are overloaded by the number of refugees, making their integration into the environment considerably difficult. The proposal, however, introduces some minor changes that do not significantly affect the legal substance itself, but remove the doubts that arise in its implementation and make it easier to do so. Two amendments have also been added which align the law with the text of the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees, supplemented by the 1967 Protocol on the Status of Refugees and the text of the Council Directive of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this law at its 6th meeting on 30.6.2009 as a working body. The government is the proposer and the college is the one who has determined the way and the procedure. The members and members of the Committee received the material: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Commission of the State Council. During the business term, amendments from the parliamentary groups were tabled in due time: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS by Articles 5 and 8 of 24. 6. 2009 and SDS Members’ Groups on Articles 2 and 7 as well of 24. 6. 2009 Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Rule of Law and the Commission of the Council of State took part in the meeting of the Committee. The State Secretary, Mr Klemenčič, said what we had just heard from the Minister, and the Legislative and Legal Service said in their presentation of their opinion that they had a more extensive comment on Article 5 and an editorial comment on Articles 1 and 8. The State Council has upheld the law, as reported by their member, Bogomir Vnučec. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 5 and 8 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, such a proposal is an amended annex or an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u6	Good-bye. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The International Protection Act systematically regulates the entire area of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. Its purpose is to comprehensively transpose the provisions of the Common European Asylum System into national law and to introduce legal, effective and rapid asylum procedures that provide the necessary protection for third-country nationals who have obtained international protection and who have made it possible to integrate into Slovenian society. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 83 of the Law on International Protection is inconsistent with the Constitution, and therefore, as we understand, the basic objective of the proposed amendments and the addition is to eliminate the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and to correct and supplement the unclear parts of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the basic principles and solutions pursued by the bill. It is therefore intended to ensure the possibility of resettlement of applicants for international protection to a private address, without the possibility being conditional on the free capacity of the asylum home on the one hand, and on the protection of public order and suitable private accommodation of the applicant on the other hand. We agree that the condition for relocation to other suitable institutions is too broad and that the word commitment to "excellent personal circumstances" is being enforced, with circumstances such as the need to relocate to safe houses, nursing homes and other institutions, and where there is a need for specific professional treatment of the applicant. Of course, it is essential that the applicant is provided with appropriate conditions of residence on a private address. In doing so, I should only point out that, even in asylum homes, the right conditions for residence should be absolutely ensured, but unfortunately this has not been the case many times. We also support the provision that the applicant should be reintroduced in an asylum home if, at the time of his stay at a private address on the basis of other procedures of the Republic of Slovenia, the applicant has been found to have violated the public order of the Republic of Slovenia, including work and employment in black. The regulation has so far provided that free legal aid to applicants belongs solely to the procedure of international protection. Therefore, applicants were not entitled to free legal aid in procedures where reasons for the recognition of international protection such as the movement restriction procedure, the relocation procedure were not established. They were not granted free legal aid in the event of an action brought before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and then in the event of a complaint to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the proposed amendment removes this non-compliance and introduces free legal aid before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in all proceedings under this law. In view of the above, we will therefore support the draft law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u8	Your Honor! All too often, we are faced with the fact that the Constitutional Court must cut down on those acts adopted by the Government or the National Assembly relating to human dignity, human rights and matters relating to the protection of that dignity. It is simply a matter of being sensitive when it comes to people in their own country to be guilty - but it is not because of the guilt of the regimes, but because of other circumstances, they cannot enjoy the protection of human rights or human dignity. It is therefore right for the National Assembly to adopt an amendment to the law to harmonise the law also with the rules of the European Union and with what is more, a standard that goes towards improving conditions for people who have lost their dignity by losing their right in their own country or under any other circumstances. It is understandable that burdens need to be shared and that an agreement is needed, and I believe that this is the correct solution. It may sometimes seem that, now that the Republic of Slovenia is a separate country, where, for its citizens and citizens, certain highest standards have been achieved, it forgets or does not see that things are happening around us in the vicinity or in the wider vicinity that cannot be regulated by citizens and citizens or by people without citizenship in their surroundings, it is right that, in international solidarity, solidarity between peoples, so far as the world is concerned, Slovenia is ahead of the world, and is in the place where it can be said, both from historical experience, so from its experience in the near past, that it understands the hardships of people and also regulates the relevant legislation, it helps them by its own power, but, of course, it must also have the right to intervene when it is necessary to do so, in order that this burden and these circumstances be resolved as in the power of the country as it is in the common policy of the wider community, as in this case the European Union. And, of course, it is also in the pleasure or dignity of the people who receive this protection. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that these protections are never too much and, of course, that we are correcting this law today because of the Constitutional Court's decision, does not mean that we will not seek to improve such cases and laws. As we say, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law. When this law was adopted in November 2007, we warned, in one way or another, of the issues now addressed in the Constitutional Court decision. We have drawn attention in particular to the issues on which Amnesty International and other civil society organisations have warned us that we have already set them up in Slovenia with a higher standard than the agreements within the European Union, but there has been some misunderstanding and a desire on the part of the current opposition to actually narrow these rights but not to guarantee them to the extent that they provide security. We agree that the asylum issue is difficult. It is very good to be governed by a single European Union, because, while there is even more scope for it to be tailored to the detriment of individuals, when there are indisputable findings that decisions of the regime, government, policy, human rights violations have taken place in each country, then it is also necessary for such people in Slovenia, in accordance with the policy that we wish to have - respect for human rights - to provide them with the right to do so. And we support the proposals made by the Government to follow the Constitutional Court's decision of 15 October 2008 in order to eliminate violations of the law with the Constitution and to supplement the law in those parts where its application was not consistent with the understanding of human rights and their enforcement under the Constitutional Court's decision. In particular, it is a free legal aid to which we have pointed out how an asylum comes without its means, if it is not granted the use of an interpreter, the possibility of providing legal protection, free assistance, payment or the possibility of an action without paying fees, then it certainly does not have any right, since there is no one who can provide it, so this is appropriate. Article 73a will make it possible to implement procedures in international protection for third-country nationals who meet the conditions for refugee status in one of the EU Member States in accordance with the International Protection Act. We also support the amendment of Article 83 of the Law, which redefines the right or possibility of displacement of persons outside a violent home. We know that this has a bearing on some of the State's financial liabilities, but this is the path by which the necessary assimilation of this asylum can be ensured and the possibility of taking care of itself by seeking work and other rights. Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. However, we are aware that its implementation will need to be monitored in the future in order to ensure that the refugee and asylum policies of the Member States of the European Union are implemented at least at this level, if possible and with additional standards, also in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Constitutional Court found that the first indent of Article 83 of the Law on International Protection is inconsistent with the Constitution. This is a provision specifying the conditions for the relocation or accommodation at a private address, subject to the fulfilment of the conditions laid down by law. In this respect, it is worth noting that the Constitutional Court has found that the said indent is inconsistent with the Constitution, since it provides for further restrictions on asylum seekers as to the origin of the home-exchange movement on a private address without this being necessary for the protection of public order. In point 16, the Constitutional Court finds that the arrangements under which asylum seekers must normally be established in an asylum home are not inadmissible in itself in view of the pursuit of the constitutionally permissible objective of public policy protection. The Law on International Protection, adopted in the previous mandate, follows legal acts forming a single European asylum system and therefore applies exclusively to third-country nationals and stateless persons. It is a single European asylum system and is established on the basis of the provisions of the multiannual Hague Programme. Therefore, the Law on International Protection, in accordance with the Council Directive on minimum standards for procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of refugee status in the Member States, has established a fundamental guardian of the applicant's legal protection for international protection, namely free legal assistance in judicial proceedings. This is what fugitive counsellors offer in proceedings before the Administrative and Supreme Court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, with a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposing a broader regime, we did not agree, so we proposed a solution to the hearing on the Home Committee to maintain the current regime which allows free legal aid to be granted to support and assist the applicant for international protection in relation to the procedure of international protection, which was not adopted on the Committee. Therefore, the current regulation follows the provisions of the Directive governing the right to legal aid and representation, except for the possibility that States may set monetary or time limits for the exercise of unlawful legal assistance and representation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that illegal migration, which is not a result of political persecution or protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, must be prevented in accordance with European standards. At the same time, we agree with the solutions in the field of international protection based on the provisions of the Constitutional Court and following the directives of the European Union which build a single European system. However, we are opposed to the non-critical enlargement of asylum rights, as the bill's proposal added, in the face of urgent changes, so we will not oppose the solutions nor will we support them because of unnecessary enlargement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The State is worthy of its name when it can rise above its self-sufficiency and see what belongs to anyone according to decisions of the Constitutional Court and international laws. Thus, the main reason for the changes that are ahead of us is compliance with the Constitutional Court decision of 15. Ten. 2008 when, as incompatible with the Constitution, it met Article 83 of the Law on International Protection relating to the Displacement of Persons. This non-compliance is regulated by Article 7 of the draft amendment. This Article provides that the applicant may move from an asylum home to a private address if he fulfils the conditions provided for by law. The novela also brings the new 73a. Article on burden-sharing or solidarity between members of the European Union. This is a principled solidarity already exercised by other Member States. The Article lays down the conditions under which Slovenia may accept a certain number of persons who have obtained international protection status in another Member State. Today, some Member States face difficulties because the number of asylum seekers is very high. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, could accept a certain number of persons, but of course these persons should already have recognised international protection status in another Member State and fulfil the conditions for obtaining international protection both under the International Protection Act. For all of this, we will really support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on amending and supplementing the Law on International Protection. The main reason for the amendment of the law is, of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides that Article 83 of the Law is inconsistent with the Constitution. The basic article of the law provides where asylum applications may be lodged if they do not reside in an asylum home, in exceptional cases they may be accommodated at another appropriate institution if the accommodation in an asylum home or its exposure cannot be provided. However, it may also be at a private address, provided that the conditions laid down by law are met. The condition of the asylum home capacity meeting and the personal interview with the applicant was determined by the Constitutional Court that the previous approval of the competent authority for private-address accommodation and the restriction on the employment of capacity in asylum homes is not necessary to achieve the constitutional objective, which is to ensure public policy, and therefore decided that the article is incompatible with the Constitution, namely in violation of the right to freedom of movement, as it provides for further restrictions on asylum seekers with regard to the choice of temporary residence, without necessarily ensuring public order. In short, the Ministry of the Interior has correctly followed our assessment of the findings of the Constitutional Court and the unconstitutional provision has been properly remedied, so Members of the DeSUS Group will give the amendment of the law a green light and a vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection are absolutely unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party Group. The notice provides for the possibility of resettlement of applicants for international protection to a private address, without the possibility being conditional on the free capacity of the asylum home on the one hand, and on the protection of public policy and the appropriateness of the applicant's private accommodation on the other hand. That amendment is, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Group, totally unacceptable. In Slovenia we have a number of asylum homes funded by budgetary resources. Thus, they will be empty after the new asylum home and pay compensation for private accommodation at the time of the crisis, when the government is actively promoting savings. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we ask whether saving applies only to Slovenian citizens and not to foreigners with refugee status. The Government itself states that the amendment of the law will make it easier to meet the conditions of eviction and foresees that more applicants will likely be moved to private addresses and that more financial assistance will be paid to applicants in the event of displacement. The rules on the rights of applicants for international protection provide for monthly financial assistance to applicants in the amount of minimum income, which currently amounts to €221.70, and in the case of a family, each next family member is entitled to 70% of that amount, which currently amounts to €155.19 per month. The calculation of financial assistance under this methodology amounts to EUR 687.27 per month for a four-member family and EUR 8242.24 per year for an individual and EUR 2640.40. The exact number of applicants for international protection who will move under the conditions laid down by this law cannot be accurately predicted, but the government already estimates an increase of 30% and in the Slovenian National Party Group we believe that this percentage will be much higher. The second amendment defines the burden-sharing institute between the Member States of the European Union. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Ministry, could determine the number of persons to be accepted by the Republic of Slovenia in the context of burden-sharing between the Member States of the European Union. These persons must fulfil only two conditions: that their refugee status has been recognised in one of the members of the European Union and that they fulfil the conditions for recognition of refugee status under the International Protection Act. It is also not possible to specify the number of new refugees who will come to Slovenia and additionally charge the Slovenian budget for that institution. We will not support this novelty in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. On Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the votes, we will hold a vote on the proposed law. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COOPERATION LAW, THE SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Madam Minister Kresalov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u20	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Society Act, which the National Assembly is considering on a proposal from the Government following a reduced procedure, since the law ensures the harmonisation of the Society Act with the Constitutional Court's decision and the other amendments are mainly less difficult to bring the law into line with other laws. The Novela of the Societies Act is, in the first place, necessary for the abolition of the non-compliance of the part of Article 10 of the Act with the Constitution established by the Constitutional Court by its decision. This is the part relating to the use of the languages of the national communities on behalf of the society. The current provision of the law provides for the use of the translation of the name of the company in Italian and Hungarian and does not use that language alone, which is not in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the rights enjoyed by the national communities pursuant to Article 64, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. With amendments to the law, we propose that companies, members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, as well as other companies established in the territory where the national communities live, be guaranteed the right to equal use of the language of the national community on behalf of the society. The provision of the law relating to the above-mentioned abolition of non-compliance with the Constitution was amended and supplemented by amendments at the meeting of the home working body. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted two amendments, which are included in the amended draft law. On a proposal from the Commission for National Communities, the mother labour body has determined that the name of the companies established in the areas where the national community lives is in both official languages. The law also allows for certain exceptions relating to an additional component of the name of a society where it is, in Slovenian or in the language of the national community, or words which, according to the provisions of the law, are as meaningful as the expansion of an economic society, will not have to be translated. In this regard, the Government considers that the legislative authority determines the level of protection of the constitutional rights of national communities and that it can also determine the higher level of protection of such constitutional rights. This is not contrary to the Constitution, according to the Government. On this basis and in view of the basic direction of this government regarding greater protection of minorities, the Government supports the updated proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Act and does not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 1. The bill also provides minor simplification of procedures and additional protection of personal data. Some administrative obstacles in the process of granting company status in the public interest have also been removed. All these amendments and additions, in the opinion of the Government, mean not only compliance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, but also improvement of the Social Act itself. In this way, we will undoubtedly improve the exercise of one of the fundamental constitutional rights, that is the right to freedom of association, and the Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Act be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Gorenak to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered this law at its 6th session. 6. 2009 The proposal for the law to be examined following a reduced procedure, i.e. the law drawn up by the Government, was submitted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 26th session. 6. 2009 Members and members of the Committee received as material a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Services, an opinion from the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality and an opinion from the Pomurska-Hungarian Self-Governmental Community of 9. 6. 2009 and report of the Commission on Nationality as an interested working body with 24. 6. 2009 Amendments to Article 1 of the Commission for the National Communities were submitted within the deadline of business. 6. 2009 and amendments of the coalition to Article 1 of 18. 6. 2009 and Articles 4, 5, and 13 of 24. 6. 2009 The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission for the National Community as an interested working body, the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangement, the Pomurian Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community and the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary Klemenčič, stressed in the presentation of the law and said what the minister had just said to me. In presenting their written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the comments made in the opinion were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee also took note of a report by the Commission on Community Nationality, which considered the draft law to be an interested working body. At the Committee meeting, Mr Laszlo Göncz presented the report. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of State, presented by Councillor Boris Šuštaršič. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality of 1. 6. 2009 and the written opinion of the Hungarian Hungarian Self-Governmental Community of 9. 6. 2009 Members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention in the debate to Article 1 of the draft law and in this context to issues related to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. The Committee adopted the amendments of the Commission for Nationality to Article 1 and the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 4 and 5. The amendments of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 1 and 13 have therefore become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text annexed to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly has been corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Following is the position of the Group of Members. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u24	Your Honor! Once again, we are dealing with a law that is not as proud of Members of Parliament as it is with the Government that it has to be on the agenda at all. It is simply that, in the case of changes to the law before time, this issue has not been settled in the way it requires today's time, as required by the standards already reached for the protection of national minorities in Slovenia and as it would be right to do so. It is simply that, once again, the person who had a limited right in some way violated the constitutional provision had to seek justice in the Constitutional Court. Wrong. It is true that this government has commissioned itself to implement all decisions of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible and to regulate this issue is thus part of this set. At first glance, it appears that there are some editorial corrections to some of the ambiguities, even so it was understood from the explanation at the meeting of the committee, but it was again stuck in that essential. It was not possible to reach a single consensus whether the word "may" is something that can and is essential to a provision, or whether this word "may" is in fact an obstacle to the realization of the rights that the national community in this area, where this issue of societies and the registration of societies is regulated, can also be exercised. I am convinced that it is not by chance that these benevolents, in order to eliminate this possibility by consensus, can be registered in both languages, but, at least for us, it is absolutely understandable that this right should only be interpreted in a uniform manner, namely that the name of the society in both languages must be in the national mixed area, as provided for by law. Of course, it is also very clear from the provisions of Article 1 in the second part how and how it can be understood when it comes to a fantasy name, when it comes to some other, different forms of designation, when and how it is permitted. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that it is in these sensitive little things that the key to whether these rights, this protection of national minorities, will be upgraded, even in the way that there will never be too much protection of national rights - and that is what must be on the part of the majority. I find it unpleasant that individuals, members of the national community, must go to the Constitutional Court for protection. Aren't we who are the majority, the ones who owe it to us to do it? Yes, we have warned, in the previous mandate and even earlier, that we should do things differently. The voice was not so loud, for most people felt that what they had adopted was enough. No, we also consider this amendment to mean that in the further development and amendment of the Social Law in other areas, not only when the name is concerned, these issues will probably need to be addressed in a very sensitive, delicate way and the law can be improved. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor on behalf of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, a respected colleague and colleague! The national communities welcome this bill, and of course we are pleased with it in the parliamentary group. In fact, the Constitutional Court found three fundamentals. First of all, members of national communities have the right to their own societies. Secondly, these societies can be called in the language of the national community. And third, most importantly, the languages of the national communities in the national mixed areas and the Slovenian language are equal. The solution proposed may not be perfect. It is improved by the amendment of the coalition, which we will then discuss and which I hope will be adopted on Wednesday. In my view, however, the amendment has an outstanding symbolic meaning, so powerful that it actually exceeds only the symbolic level. Indeed, this solution, after a long, long time, restores to the national communities, as I would say, confidence in the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, too! The Social Act is an important system law governing civil society and the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens to freedom of association. The law adopted in 2006 simplified the conditions for the establishment of societies and their membership in many areas. Some simplifications have also been introduced in the registration of the company itself and in the various amendments thereto. It extended the range of those societies that can manage their accounting more easily and removed certain restrictions on the management of the company’s assets at the time of its termination. It also provided equivalent conditions for the granting of the status of society in the public interest, irrespective of the area in which it is established. It has also set out the advantages that such a society enjoys in public tendering for public funds. While there are still some problems in the granting of the status of society in the public interest, we can also assess that some of these have already been eliminated in the current amendment and that the assessment may be positive for the law itself. In short, the Company Act, adopted in 2006, introduced a number of innovations in this area that have a positive impact on the work of 21,422 companies registered in Slovenia since the end of February 2009. Today's amendment to the law is not to systematically change the concept of the law, but mainly to harmonise Article 10 of the Social Act with the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Social Act, in the opinion of the initiators of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, does not sufficiently guarantee the specific rights of the national communities in areas where the Italian and Hungarian communities live and exercise their rights. The amendment of Article 10 of the Company Act eliminates non-compliance in the Company Act with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We also support this change in the Group of Social Democrats. Other amendments to the Social Act are mainly technical content, as they change currencies from set to euro and lay the legal basis for the collection and processing of data on representatives of societies. So, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u30	Good-bye, everyone. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Societies Act brings compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, compliance with the Financial Operations Act in insolvency proceedings and forcible termination, the Law on the introduction of the euro and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data by representatives of a company or branch of a foreign society shall also be laid down in the manner already laid down in other public books intended to ensure the safety of legal traffic. However, we have little thought about the amendment adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, namely the minority amendments, so that the text can also be replaced in Italian or Hungarian by the text of societies in both official languages. In its opinion, the Government stated that, after consulting the Government's Law Service, the proposed amendment was considered to go beyond the Constitutional Court's findings on the unconstitutionality of the provisions of Article 10(1) of the Law on Society and the requirements of the Court to comply with the Constitution. In their view, it goes beyond the requirement of compliance with Article 64 of the Constitution, since the specific rights and the exercise of the specific rights enjoyed by the Italian and Hungarian national communities are fully guaranteed by this provision of the Constitution, which they consider to be the subject of an amended provision of the social law. Similarly, at the meeting of the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the Constitutional Court was based on Article 64 of the Constitution and only in a parallel manner under Article 11 of the Constitution, which provides for the equal use of official languages. Article 64 of the Constitution gives special rights to members of national communities. They therefore considered it necessary to examine the extent to which the proposed amendment went through the Constitutional Court's decision and the Constitution itself, since it no longer provided for rights alone, but provided for the mandatory labelling of societies in both languages, not only for members of national communities, but also for Slovenians. We have also asked the Ministry for information on the number of societies based in the areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, from which it appears that there are 946 such associations, so after the amendment of Law 841 societies should change their basic act, since the total number of societies already with bilingual names is 105, which we can conclude that they are members of both a majority and a minority nation. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we have drafted an amendment which brings the text back to the government proposal and is in line with the proposal of the Government legislative service and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Respectable. In view of everything, we really support the proposed changes in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u34	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Parliamentary Group of Complements of the Company Novelation Act of the Society Law requires inconsistencies identified on the basis of the analysis of its implementation in practice, and in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the provision of rights of indigenous nationalities in the areas where these communities live on behalf of society. The discussion on the proposed articles of the basic law has been and is now focused on the basic Article 10 of the law, which stipulates that the name of society must be in Slovenian. However, if the company is established in an area where the national communities live, the name may also consist of a translation of the name in Italian or Hungarian. The emphasis is on translation. The Constitutional Court held that such an arrangement was inconsistent with the Constitution and set a one-year deadline for the abolition of the latter. It is clear from the decision that in areas where both indigenous national communities live, it is necessary to take into account that the languages of the indigenous national community and the Slovenian language are equal to the official languages and that any subordination of one language to another would be unconstitutional. Such subordination is now indicated by the current regime using translation, the name of the company in Italian or Hungarian. It is therefore indisputable that the current solution in the law is not appropriate, as it does not allow the use of this language alone, and therefore we support the amendment of the law by Members of the DeSUS. We believe that the special constitutional rights of this community are violated by the current regulation, since in the areas where these communities live, it is also defined as an official language in addition to the Slovenian language, Italian or Hungarian. The latter means that it is an equal position of these languages and is not possible to subordinate the language of minorities to the Slovenian language. It is therefore necessary to amend the non-constitutional provision in this respect. The DeSUS Group will thus contribute to the abolition of the non-constitutional provisions of the Social Act and will also support other proposed solutions that mostly address inconsistencies in the implementation of the basic social law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin by saying that we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Act in the Slovenian National Party. A simple fact shows that Slovenia is exemplary in ensuring minority rights and it is sad that foreigners, asylum seekers, deleted minorities, Roma, as you call them, have greater rights than citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a sad fact. Rights are also enjoyed by Slovenians who reside in Italy, Hungary, Austria and this constitutional court should ensure the rights of these citizens. Who can force a Slovenian or a Slovenian to carry a identity card, a card, or another document in a bilingual record if he does not want it himself? Of course, that's possible with us. As much as he deserves with a week of asylum, we have heard before we have considered the Law on International Protection, more than a worker who regularly works a full monthly schedule, a working monthly schedule in the factory - EUR 687. The coastal area, where I come from, still has an open wound of fascism, there is also an uncontrolled border of bilingual territory, a respected minister. Your men in blue also provide protection to fascists who organize rallies in Slovenia. This is happening, and this is a reflection of this moment, at this time, neither does the protests of villagers who are self-organizing, even threatening them with punishment if they persist in the blockades. There is still a vivid memory when we were faced with the fact that the names and names of the dead changed, and those who today say that they lack the right to do so are doing so. It is perfectly normal that if a society, a society in an area where the national community lives is established, that their activity or the name of society may also be recorded in Italian or Hungarian, but it is not normal to order that this should be the case and we do so by this law. If we do this in such a way that we will see the rights of foreigners, minorities as the rights of our own citizens before, this government will not enjoy the confidence it wants. Unfortunately, this ministry also deals too much with such rights, which also shows a number of debates on various areas, whether deleted, for Gypsies, for minorities, for asylum seekers in the National Assembly. I think that this legal provision is quite appropriate and we also believe in the Slovenian National Party that positive reciprocity should be taken into account, and, Minister, from this point of view, I call on you to take on the same level of enthusiasm for the Slovenians and Slovenians living in Italy, Hungary, Austria, Croatia. When their rights are such as those of the living minorities here, I will be very happy as a Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u38	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Act is primarily intended to harmonise the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on Companies with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and then to harmonise the law with the Financial Business Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, with the Law on the introduction of the euro and the Data Protection Act. Article 10 of the current Societies Act therefore provides that the name of the company must be in Slovenian. As soon as the company has its seat in the territory where the national group lives, the name of the company may also consist of a translation of the name in Italian and Hungarian. The Constitutional Court has found that this Article of the Act on Companies with Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the situation and manner in which the rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are exercised. The problem is that the law provides for the use of the translation of the name of the company in Italian and Hungarian and not the use of the language itself, which is not in accordance with the rights enjoyed by the national communities under Article 64, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, as assessed by the Constitutional Court. We agree that Italian and Hungarian as the languages of indigenous national communities in the area where they live cannot be considered as foreign languages and also that in these ratios Italian and Hungarian are not allowed to be used as a translation in Slovenian. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also support other amendments to the bill necessary to comply with the Terminology of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination, since that law no longer allows the proposed enforcement procedure to be proposed after the insolvency proceedings have begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 10 July. Seven. 2009 I am putting two amendments to Article 1, the SDS Group's amendment and the coalition group's amendment to the debate. Anyone want to discuss these two amendments? I'm opening the application. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u40	The law is true, at least so many say, of a technical nature, it corrects small things and so on. But these two amendments are so far apart when it comes to dealing with these issues. In fact, secondly, and I will support this, of course, this is an amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which is solely a nominally regulated matter, to which the Law-Legal Service warns, but the first is the essential one and destroys everything that the Constitutional Court so-called that we have to regulate. It is very difficult to listen to debates in the National Assembly in a way: minorities have more than "own citizens", minorities have more than and so on. [[...]] Is it really not known that they are members of the national community, both Italian and Hungarian, nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Some of these places are longer than many of the 'own nationals'. What is this diction, "own citizen" and "national, member of the national community"? Sometimes it freezes me so easily that we can sort people, play with their dignity and simply do not recognize the rights that all other citizens and citizens of this country have. I must say that, clearly, it is not about people with temporary or permanent residence in Slovenia, but that they are foreigners, but that they are citizens and citizens of this country who live here. And that's why with this amendment, giving them "something you can have" is simply unacceptable - they have it or they don't have it. But according to our constitution, I hope that, according to the majority's belief, they must have these rights. That's what this is all about. I will not agree to an explanation that if, because it is only'may', they should decide, they have the right, but this right is limited and so on, it is freely chosen. I understand the provisions in this law, as well as in others, always in such a way that they must ensure what they are originally referring to. If this is a matter of name rights in one language and another, so is the Constitutional Court's decision, then this right is and cannot be relativised with the word'may'. Then there's really no right to do that. Because someone's going to be able to interpret, "Oh, because I was kind-hearted, I gave more because there's a "may" and that's why I gave it to him." No, this "may" is meant - this is also the intention of this amendment - to simply reduce this right. That's not what I'm for. As it is said, I will not support this amendment, but I will support the other amendment, because I think you have both put into consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and good day to all who are present today. I will only talk about the first amendment to Article 1, because it essentially restores the situation in Article 1 to the text that was prepared before the Commission for the National Community as an interested working body considered this law. I would say that, at the very least, it should be borne in mind that Hungarian and Italian are official languages, I stress officially, in an area where both national communities live together with the majority people. Thus, the use of the term "official language" is in fact the easiest way to define. If we say both official languages, we don't have to mention Italian and Hungarian at all. And that's why it's a simple definition that's legally pure and that doesn't leave any doubt. When it comes to the use of the official language, it shall be compulsory. We have nothing to discuss; it cannot happen to us, as it did to us 18 years ago, when we received citizenship certificates in the bilingual area only in the Slovenian language. This happened to us 18 years ago. And when we protested, they told us at the competent ministry that we were upset for God's sake because this citizenship certificate was being printed in Ljubljana. That's a great answer. Something similar could happen if these companies were registered in Ljubljana. Then you could say because they're registered in Ljubljana, and then they don't have to have a bilingual name. And that's why I have to say - not because I accidentally came up with a brilliant idea and we accepted this proposal on the committee, but because I think that even in the future, when other harmonisations of individual laws relating to the regulation of the situation of both national communities in Slovenia, that when we come to using this term or the word "official language" because it is always two, it is not three. I hope that, until the vote on this amendment, a colleague and colleagues in the SDS Group could withdraw the amendment because, at least as we can say, it is indecisive. It proves that the intention of the proposer is not at all to ensure that the rights of both national communities are equalised in the use of their mother tongue in public use. Therefore, of course, I cannot agree to use the word "may" in connection with the use of the official language of nationality in the bilingual area. It has to be used, not easy! Here's the main distinction between us. I will say again here, I hope that someone is listening, from those areas that are not bilingual, the situation of the national communities regarding the use of their language in the public, from which we are an independent independent state, has deteriorated significantly. And it is necessary to take steps to return to a time when social regulation was not at the request of most people, as it appears, but in relation to national communities it was significantly better than today's democratic, parliamentary regime. And there's something else I'd like to say about that. I would like to say that even when the Law on Personal ID was amended and the possibility was given to the inhabitants of the municipalities where the municipality is part of a bilingual area, and this applies to all three municipalities where bilinguality is Italian-Slovenian, the possibility was given to the bilingual municipality, but in an area where it is only monolingual, a citizen may request the issue of a card only in the Slovenian language. I didn't agree with that at the time. Why? Because I have to say that, especially now that I can travel with my ID card almost all over Europe, even through countries where the European Union is not, I am proud to show my ID card with pride, because it is bilingual. And when the police are surprisingly looking at foreign borders, what is it now, I can say that I live in a country where bilinguality is legal, where minorities live. They don't have it elsewhere, and I'm especially proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, you asked for a replica. It's not completely clean so I can give you the replica peacefully, because Mr. Anderlich didn't mention you. I ask you kindly that we both be calm, I give you my word when the discussers go. I know that article you want to read to me. [[...]] Mr Laszlo Gönch has the floor. Please. Please! Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u44	I'd like to proceed, Mr. Vice President. If we both know this article, it's paragraph 70. It states that each debater shall have the right to reply to the debate of the other debater if this debate related to his debate. And in that I see the possibility of replica. I would therefore ask that you comply with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u45	I have a lot of respect for this article, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u46	But if you don't want it, thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u47	Please. I've made up my mind, as I told you, and I will insist. Mr. Laszlo Gönch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u48	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me first define myself to support the proposed amendments, the first substantive ones and others, which are more editorial in nature. I'd like to point out a few things. I believe that this law, or this addition, is also about improving legislation in the field of the exercise of the specific rights of indigenous national communities. Of course we wish, the national community in particular, that this would be so everywhere, not just in Slovenia. We find it a little difficult to view ourselves as a condition compared with other members of the national community. We are always the first to fully support, even in the case of other countries, a similar level of protection and the maximum possible form of preservation of Slovenian national communities. As has already been said, this amendment to Article 10 in the form proposed provides two, according to our assessment. It is clear that all three languages are therefore equal in Hungarian and Italian or Slovenian. I mean, if Article 11 of the Constitution expresses the principle equality of both languages, then we cannot even speak in the sectoral legislation on a more equal and less equal language. Equally, it means that in all segments, in all cases, it is equal. So this amendment deals with this issue. Secondly, as has already been pointed out, it also regulates the use of the company’s own names. In doing so, I would specifically point out that in the case of my own names, if this is in Slovenian, this is not translated into Hungarian or Italian. This is what I think is most democratic and consistent with this issue, which could have been created, because in maintaining identity, not just nationalities, even Slovenians, it is this very own name of society that is of paramount importance. I think that's what this is all about. As for the prestige of the language issue - here I fully agree with Mrs Pecan. Despite the very high level of protection of national rights, the credibility of the culture and language of the national communities has unfortunately been lost. By ensuring an equivalent level of practicality, i.e. in fact, this does not favour any national community, it is only trying to ensure a level on which the ability to preserve language and culture and the existence of the national community will be more optimal than ever. I think that the proposed amendments by the coalition parties are as acceptable as they please the decision of the Constitutional Court and also the aspirations of the national communities. In doing so, it is my opinion that the rights of neither the majority nor the other population are violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we are aware that in bilingual areas, members of both the minority and the majority people live together, participate - neighbours, friends and that the speciality and culture of minority nations are also rich in the majority nation. That is why we have no problems and we have always supported all the proposals that have improved the living conditions of minority peoples in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Constitutional Court states in this case that the translation is not one which would be in accordance with the rights enjoyed by the national communities under Article 64(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia. And my colleague said that our amendment was rude, the amendment proposes exactly the same dictatorship as the government suggested in the original proposal. Then the government apparently proposes indecisive things as well. We believe that the dictatorship that we are proposing, if society is established in an area where the national community lives, can also be a name in Italian and Hungarian, is an appropriate follow-up to the Constitutional Court's decision. Finally, this was pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament. I believe that such a dictatorship is appropriate and does not hold, as my colleague said before me, that the names of society will not have to be given in both languages. The amendment you have adopted brings an amendment that reads: "If society is established in an area where the national communities live, the name is in both official languages." So it's the name of society, we're talking about the name of society. I think that where there are actually members of both the majority and the minority people in society, that was no longer a problem. I mentioned earlier that 105 societies have a name in both languages. If we listen to this dictatorship, which we have given, and the Legal and Legislative Service has also told us that it is appropriate that the name can also be in Italian or Hungarian, we believe that we are not denying anyone rights, so of course I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Lucky Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I should have it as soon as I signed up for the replica. That's what paragraph 70 says. We are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, everyone, and may you also be allowed, your Honourable Vice-President. First answer to Mr. Anderlich when he mentions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u53	I gave you my word for the debate, Mr Friend, not for my assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u54	I'm going to touch on the debate now. Mr. Anderlich took a little out of context what I said. Indeed, there is no doubt that we are not in favour of minority rights in the Slovenian National Party, nor have we ever claimed that these rights acquired, which are exemplary, which is also the case with Europe, should be reduced. However, we note this, and I have also said this today that the Slovenians live beyond the borders, and these rights are not what they should be. Italy has recently passed a law on the protection of minorities and does not implement it. Article 7 of the State Treaty does not apply in Austria. Hungary cannot finance the rights of minorities, which relate to the provision of administrative and technical conditions for work, in a manner that is exemplary. We close even cultural institutions and museums. Not to say, under what conditions children live in Hungary: they eat from military mines. We have already talked about this on our competent working body. When I spoke about the rights of foreigners, asylum seekers, deleted minorities, Gypsies or Roma, as you call them, I stressed that they deserve you more than normal workers in Slovenia. As far as an asylum can be earned, we have heard in the previous marriage, I mentioned when we talked about the International Protection Act, €687. Ladies and gentlemen, constitutional rights are also the right to work. Those who work full-time in Slovenia - 186 hours, do not get enough to pay the bills, while the Stojan family receives EUR 1200 per month. That's what I wanted to talk to you about, and I wanted to make a comparison. So much for Mr. Tonček to understand. Now there's something else about what makes sense in this amendment and what it's not. Look. In terms of rights, these are very well written in this law and give the possibility to use the Italian or Hungarian language to companies that are legal persons. And these societies can also operate in this language. In order to make no mistake, we have written out the names of the companies in Slovenian and Italian or Hungarian, according to certain circumstances. The demand for these companies to be called bilingual was 11 in Slovenia. Only and only 11. As has already been said, society is treated as a legal person of private law and has rights and the possibility to carry out its activities in both languages in a bilingual area. Let me also say that we must be aware that Article 11 of the Constitution stipulates that the official language in the Republic of Slovenia is Slovenian and that no one in this country has the right to force a citizen or a citizen to carry a bilingual ID card in his pocket if he does not wish. I have talked about this and I think that when we also take care of it with the help of the Constitutional Court for the rights of our citizens and citizens living in the neighbourhood - in Italy, Austria and Hungary, in Croatia to the same extent as minorities have in our country, then of course we can talk about doing the right thing. However, it is also true that when we compare the number of hours spent in the National Assembly, it is from this political environment that proposals for greater rights come to erased, foreigners, asylum seekers, Gypsies, etc. Looks like they don't have another job in LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u56	For a moment I began to wonder whether there was something wrong with me and that Mr Friend would not come forward when I stood up for what is in Slovenia, as well as in all democratic countries, the value when it comes to the protection of national minorities when it comes to their rights, when it comes to respect for constitutional order, when it comes to the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court and so on. It's all right. We are fundamentally different and will continue to do so. But when it comes to calling for inequality, racial distinctions, ethnic distinctions, and other things, it is necessary to contact the National Assembly. At a time when someone says, own citizens and those minorities, something is wrong and it is necessary to defend all citizens and citizens. Mr Friend, members of the national communities, whether Italian or Hungarian, are all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, after most or virtually all born in this country. They have no other country, no other country, no place to exercise their rights. And that is why my voice will always be on the side of those who must enjoy these rights and most must be given them. And here it won't help to wave with no rules of procedure, nor was it broken. I didn't argue with you. I've been having an argument with you since the opening speech. But with your opinions and your attitude on the board, every day and at every point in each case, they're wiped out, I don't know what and so on. No, no, no. This country will be democratic and will have some reputation in the world and also in its own citizens and citizens, if it seeks greater protection and sensitivity from regulation on these issues. You know, actually, it bothers me already that we have to discuss these issues at all. For me, these questions are self-evident, and this is how I deal with them. And for me, you don't have to ask yourself when I come to Isolo, or Piran, or Lendava, where the area is bilingual, what I can expect or what must be provided there. For me, this is self-involved, and I also respect that at every step of my work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u57	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Let the first part not be understood as a polemic or a replica, but as an explanation, because certain provisions of the Constitution relating to work are regularly applied in the National Assembly. I would be very happy if the constitution still guaranteed the right to work. It's just that, unfortunately, it's not true. Whether it was ever real or not, let's leave it, but there was a right to work. You're not in the constitution anymore. We now have two provisions in the Constitution: one that speaks of freedom of work, and it is very important because it ensures that freedom of work is guaranteed. Any free choice of employment, under the same conditions every job is available and forced labour is prohibited. So this is a very important constitutional provision. And the other one who talks about job protection, which obliges the country to create employment opportunities, which is close to the right to work, is just not the right to work and to ensure the legal protection of employment. Not because it seems terribly important to me, but even though this right is used so many times to know that it is, unfortunately, gone, but there are solutions that are similar. Now it's about the Society Act. First of all, I would like to say that I am satisfied, happy, proud of the regulation of minority rights in the Slovenian Constitution. And I am glad, proud, that these rights are taken from the previous constitutions also in previous countries. We have had these rights highly standardised and also highly established. For this reason, I firmly believe that it is bad and I never understand so much that the exercise of minority rights must be linked in any way to reciprocity, which is sometimes spoken of directly or indirectly. To demand reciprocity would mean that you are also willing to apply yourself to the extent to which the State to which you demand reciprocity applies. That's wrong. We must enforce as much as possible. As many rights as we have from constitutionally guaranteed and by law established, it also gives us the basis to warn in bilateral contacts and in international organisations that there are also solutions that provide more than what these countries, where our minorities, are willing to regulate. Thirdly, I would like to say that whenever, colleague Anderlich has already mentioned this, the question for me is whether or not to exercise more or less rights is, for all minorities, and especially minority minorities, the criterion for the use of solutions that guarantee more rights, no less. I think that this is right and that it would be good for all to act on such criteria whenever possible, because it is only in this way that positive discrimination can then be applied to rights in an appropriate manner. And last but not least, about a specific case. I have read the decision of the Constitutional Court very thoroughly. I must say that I understand it undisputedly in my explanation so that no provision should be applied in the solutions that would allow for the possibility of both official languages being used unevenly. And the Constitutional Decision explicitly states that the use of Hungarian or Italian nationalities as a translation would be highly unconstitutional. When I thought about what is between official use and translation, I must say that I found no other language than that then the official language is used in any case and that they do not have the presidents of society, minority parts, Italian, Hungarian, Slovenian in the framework of the assembly society by majority voting the right to judge when bilinguality will be used and when it will not be used, but this bilinguality is guaranteed. For this reason, I also support the proposal made in the amendment of the working body dealing with minority issues, because it seems to me that only in this way will the constitutional provision on the equivalent and the mandatory use of another official language, but the official language, which means the language of one or the other nationalities, be applied in both mixed areas. I will support this amendment of the Nationality Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u59	The text is by Mr László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to call you back the next time. I'll be very brief. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I support amendment number two, an amendment that is undoubtedly an improvement of legislation. Another time. It is in this amendment, which I am referring to, i.e. number 2, that point 3 states that the name of the company may also have an additional component which specifies the company in more detail. This additional ingredient of the name shall not be subject to the provision of the first paragraph of this Article relating to the use of the language if it is in Slovenian or in the language of the national community. This means that the name of the society itself, i.e. its own name, is not translated. I think that this is clear, and we have made this clear in past discussions. From this point of view, therefore, there is no fear of endangering anyone’s rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u62	I wanted to ask Mr Göncz whether he meant this in the introductory debate, and it seems to me that it is now clear what is going on so that it would not be misunderstood in the public eye, as it is also possible for minorities to understand otherwise that this article can be arranged differently. But I would only point out that whenever citizens and citizens, Slovenes and Slovenians, are in no way deprived of anything, where, as has been said today, even enriching our community, I do not understand why others, under the terms "someright, some standard should be reduced". It is, however, for citizens and citizens of this country who, in special areas, combine with special rights, work, and have the same freedom of association as everyone else. I don't know a case that would restrict anyone. If society is already so named as it will have to be called, and as long as freedom is for all and does not endanger others, all such things must be supported. That's why I'm going to support the second amendment, not the first one.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u63	Mr. Roberto Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think the predecessors have already consumed my announced debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u65	Okay. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Marian Krizman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join those who support the complement of the Commission for Nationality, in which we have long debated and finally unanimously adopted this text: If society is established in an area where national communities live, the name of society in both official languages. This is the standard they need in the bilingual area of nationality, and they deserve it because we have already taken important steps with the Resolution on Visible bilinguality in the congregations where we live, where we have bilinguality. And that's why I think the amendment to Article 1 is completely self-evident. I think that the adoption of such a text and this article is actually a solution and I do not see any problem in translation, as it says, in both languages. Actually, if you want, in Cyprus, Isola and Piran, that's how we do it. We don't have a problem with that. Mixing, what is happening on the other hand, and reciprocity, is a completely wrong debate, because this slowly destroys everything that we have managed to achieve in Slovenia with tolerance and intelligence, and especially those who live in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u67	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Please. Mr. Crossman, if you turn it off, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and also thank you to Mr. Križman. There's nothing I can do to stop myself once again in the implementation of Mr. Lucky Friend. He rightly stood up for our foreigners in Austria, Italy and wondered how we should guarantee rights to minorities in Slovenia, if ours does not have them outside our borders. And I ask myself further whether it is expected that our foreigners will have greater opportunities for their rights if we do not offer them to minorities in Slovenia. Let us be different from them and ask Italy and Austria to behave accordingly. If we listen to the implementation of the Happy Friend and imagine that this would be the speech of the Austrian Member, we can reframe his performance into the Austrian situation, we could quickly say that this is probably some representative of Haider's party. And we would certainly condemn its implementation very quickly. And it is right that we also condemn this implementation here in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u71	Mr. Friend, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u72	I would point out once again, for the first time, I was talking about positive reciprocity. This means that we must be repeatedly stressed how exemplary we are, and this must also be asked of neighbouring countries when it comes to the rights of the living Slovenians there. That's what I'm talking about. I have pointed out this once again, and I stress that in the Slovenian National Party we are not against the reduction of the rights acquired, the rights written, which are in implementation and are exemplary and many for example. We are against forgetting that in Hungary, Croatia, Italy, there are Slovenians living in Austria and that we have not had an hour of time in the National Assembly to give them a debate in the plenary session, at least not as much as we do for the minority living with us. And there's something else I'd like to point out. I come from Primorska, Mr. Franci Kek. Read Samuel Proel's book and you'll see what happened there before II. World war, because fascism began long ago in Primorsk, when Italian fascists changed the names of the dead. And it's still alive and painful this wound, and it hurts so much more if our official authorities allow it, so the police have the fascists organize official rallies in Slovenia. To change your mind, I would invite you to Lokov, which is the largest village in Slovenia, and you will see that there is an uncontrolled spread of the border of the bilingual area. That's where we have Alpini Street. This street was named after the living inhabitants who settled there. A little away from Bazovica, who made the first sacrifices for the freedom of the Slovenian people. I was talking about Italy talking to our prime minister or Mr Berlusconi holding a fig in his pocket when he promises to give money for a minority, living in Italy, a Slovenian minority, while we allow every complaint to become positively and legally resolved in the Constitutional Court, even if it is a caprice. That's what I'm talking about. It would be good to be aware that the rights of other citizens and citizens must also be addressed, especially when we are talking about social rights. Unfortunately, foreigners have greater rights with us, including social ones, and I have talked about it. We can walk through the already written and captured sent Virans, who have received certain structures and you will see that this is the case. But I want them to be a social state, and that's what we have in the constitution. And before that, I was talking about the fact that the constitution actually touches the rights to work, but I would like, of course, to be a social state, and that those who normally work can, even normally, live, pay their bills and buy that basket of living needs that they urgently need for survival, but that's not the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u73	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u74	By the way, the replica lasts 3 minutes, as I recall, according to the rules of procedure. I just want to say two things. One is that Article 11 of the Constitution, apart from the paragraph previously read by a colleague, "the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian", writes the following sentence, which is much longer: "In the territory of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian." When we quote something, then we quote in full, not only what we particularly like, because we cannot read the first sentence of Article 11 of the Constitution in the debate on these amendments, but we must read it whole. If we were to talk about culture in Slovenia, of course it would be correct to read only the first paragraph. Today, both sentences should be read as a whole at this meeting and at this point. I don't think anyone can replicate the Constitution, I hope not. I just did it. I read the whole article. Secondly, I would like to say that when I said that he was an unseemly amendment, he was rude because he was something that the Government had proposed, which is, in other words, very formalistically consistent with the Constitution and with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but we must not forget something else. When the Commission for Nationality and the Internal Policy Committee endorsed these amendments and summarized them in the text of the law, it is really rude to go back a step. Thirdly, there was also a representative or SDS member of the Commission for Nationality who voted in favour of this amendment. Let's talk about what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u75	Anyone else want to discuss these two amendments? Just Mr. Roberto Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The text originally proposed by the Government, and I quote, "if society is established in an area where the national community lives, the name'may' is also in Italian or Hungarian," in my opinion, is not in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. In particular, if it were not for the amendment under number 2, this could "may also" be, which I can say from experience, inevitably interpreted as if the language of the national community could only appear in public or even officially together with the Slovenian language, while the Slovenian language could not, as it were, be said, but the Slovenian language alone. I think there's this imaginary nuance that makes a profound difference in the notion of equality of languages. This reduced interpretation of Article 11 of the Constitution, to which the decision of the Constitutional Court does not explicitly refer, which is very important and interesting, a reduced interpretation of Article 11(2) of the Constitution has been followed since the adoption of the Constitution. Because that "also" is understood as something that establishes the language of the national community as an official only in certain cases, given certain solutions that are the product of the current political will in particular in this Chamber. And that's not the way it is, and you can't explain it to yourself like that. And this decision of the Constitutional Court clearly states that this reduction of this issue is not constitutionally permissible. It's very important in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u77	I find that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS TO CONSIDER THE PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIAL SUPPORT FOR SOCIALLY HAZARDENED, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Minister Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u78	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. As we know, in a situation like that of global and domestic recession, many people have come into social distress. With this law, we want to help those who are most affected in the current situation. Taking into account the constitutional principle that each social state must respect, that everyone must have at least a minimum standard of living, we have therefore drawn up a law which is before you and which introduces a single special supplement for the socially disadvantaged. In preparing the law, we were aware that the law by granting a special allowance would not save the material situation of individuals or families, but at least partially alleviate the social hardship that the lowest incomes faced. The purpose of the law is to help people in such a situation, namely, the worst social distress. To this end, pensioners, other than partial pensions and half of pensions, beneficiaries of disability benefits, recipients of unemployment benefits and recipients of family allowances and allowances, will be eligible. The allowance will be paid to those beneficiaries whose remuneration is reflected in official records and whose amount does not exceed 60 and 70% of the minimum wage, which is EUR 268 and EUR 313 respectively. This amount has been decided by the number of beneficiaries and by the resources allocated to the payment of the specific allowance. The amount of the special allowance for socially disadvantaged persons will vary: the highest will therefore belong to families and individuals - recipients of monetary social assistance, that is EUR 200 and 160, i.e. those categories with the lowest income, and these recipients are always checked for the entire material situation of the family or individual: income, income and property. The other beneficiaries will receive a special allowance of EUR 120 if their remuneration does not exceed EUR 268 and EUR 80 if their remuneration is between EUR 268 and EUR 313. Since there are quite a few recipients who receive funds from several titles, such as pensions, cash social assistance and the like, the bill also provides that all benefits under this law are aggregated and, according to the amount thus established, the allowance is then measured. In order not to result in multiple payments of the allowance, it is stipulated that the beneficiary shall be paid by law to other payers. Since the budgetary resources allocated to this year's budget are limited due to the other financial obligations our country has at this moment, which are linked to the difficult economic situation, we are spending €15 million on a specific balance-sheet supplement. It was therefore necessary to rationalise the procedures related to the allocation of funds. Thus, the payers established by this Act will pay a special allowance within the month following its formal application, i.e. without the benefit of the beneficiary and without legal proceedings. This means that funds will be disbursed quickly and that their allocation will not result in additional costs. As has already been said on the parental committee, the consideration of this law is not opposed or supported by a large majority of all Members. I believe that this special supplement will at least alleviate the social distress of the most vulnerable, so I hope that the law will be adopted in an urgent procedure and we will be able to take immediate action to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to a member of this committee, Mr Marjan Krizman, for the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary and a co-worker. At its 9th emergency meeting, the Committee on the Work of the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the Proposal for a Law on a Special Tax on Social Threats, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for the treatment and adoption of a bill following an urgent procedure. Representatives of the proposer, with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Employment Institute and representative of the Association of the Unemployed and Socially Hazardous. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which, on a proposal from the law, made comments on Articles 1 and 2, on the title of Chapter 2 and on Articles 4, 5 and 8. No amendments have been tabled by qualified applicants. However, proposals for amendments to the Committee have been submitted to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which the Committee also adopted in the debate. The representative of the proposer briefly presented the individual articles of the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments to the Committee followed their opinion. The debate stressed the support of the proposal for a law by all debaters. At the same time, some creators expressed disappointment that they thought they could and should do more about the extent and timeliness of aid to the socially disadvantaged. They agreed that this was, however, an intervention law that could not solve systemic problems, but they felt that they could draw up at least the extent of the funds more ambitiously. Proponents of the bill to the extent of the funds proposed, however, stressed that the Ministry's actions were going in the right direction, but that there were no measures at other ministries. At the same time, the view was expressed that this is an intervention law, where it is a special supplement for the socially disadvantaged, to alleviate their current pressures and to accept the Ministry's arguments that the proposed scope is a realistic option. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 to the title of Chapter II and Articles 4, 5 and 8. A draft law, which is an integral part of the report, was prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! The global economic crisis is also reflected in the social field every day more and in certain categories of the population in particular, so the Government has decided to draw up a special intervention law to facilitate the social situation of the most vulnerable groups. The help we grant by this law is of a unique nature. It is worth noting that there is a system of social transfers that is well established in Slovenia, and I have already quoted many times that the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia would be even higher if we did not have such a system. In short, the intervention law is an intervention law and wants to add additional assistance to what the state is already giving to the socially disadvantaged. The law seeks to ensure equal treatment of the different categories of population who are socially at risk in order to provide them with additional funds for at least partial resolution of the social situation, with different levels of the allowance aimed at equalising the socially disadvantaged according to their basic income, up to a level not exceeding 70% of the minimum wage. The Social Democrats' Group supports the bill's proposal because it believes that in difficult times any assistance is welcome. We are aware that the law will not satisfy everyone and we would also like to see more resources for this supplement. Unfortunately, however, the public financial situation does not allow for greater generosity by the state. With the proposed law, the coalition also fulfils the commitment under the coalition agreement, although in a slightly different way and to a slightly smaller extent than the one recorded. The latter is due to the economic crisis and, as a consequence, to the country's lower budgetary prospects. However, an important improvement in the proposed law compared to previous proposals is the extension of the beneficiary group to all socially disadvantaged groups. This will not only benefit pensioners, but also beneficiaries of monetary and social assistance, disabled persons, as well as the unemployed and socially disadvantaged mothers on maternity leave. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not support the opposition's amendment, which foresees that the supplement will be paid more than once. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the very title of the law that speaks of a single supplement. Second, consideration should also be given to the possibilities of public finances for the payment of such an allowance. The already coalition agreement has also made the payment of the special allowance conditional on social and public financial sustainability, and we must trust the government's assessment that the proposed total amount is what the country can afford at a given time. At the same time, I would like to reiterate that the Government is speeding up the preparation of a system law that will comprehensively regulate the area of social transfers in the form of a so-called single percentage point. The only comprehensive regulation in this area can ensure the long-term stability of the social security system of the population. However, intervention measures such as the proposed law can only mitigate the consequences in the exceptional economic and social situations in which we have come into existence. On the other hand, it must be said that social policy is not a substitute for economic policy. As has already been said, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Stefan Tisel on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u84	Nice greeting, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with a co-worker. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on a special allowance for socially disadvantaged persons. It is an urgent solution to the material distress of people with the lowest income or people who are already receiving social assistance. This is about 120,000 socially disadvantaged people who receive monthly incomes that are lower or equal to 60% and 70% of the minimum wage. The purpose of the law is to improve the material and social situation of the various categories of people with these low incomes. The beneficiaries will thus receive between €80 and €200 of a special allowance for socially disadvantaged persons. The highest specific allowance for socially disadvantaged persons will be granted to recipients of cash social assistance, amounting to EUR 200 when the family is entitled to cash social assistance, and EUR 160 when the individual is entitled. This will be given to pensioners, in particular by the allowance, after the disability insurance benefits that are unemployed, to beneficiaries of state pensions under the pension and disability insurance regulations, to beneficiaries of pensions under the age insurance rules of farmers, and to them we have prepared a law in our client that has not been adopted to align them with farmers - fighters who would receive a minimum pension. Then there are the beneficiaries of supplementary pensions under the regulations on social security for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. It also covers recipients of unemployment benefits and recipients of maternity benefits, child care and protection, adoption and parental allowance. Otherwise, this social supplement will not solve their problems, especially if we imagine that this supplement is just a single act. For example, if we divide 120 euros into 12 months, then the supplement amounts to 10 euros per month. What we get for 10 euros, we can know for ourselves. I'm sure it would mean more if this supplement were every month. Since the economic crisis has not yet seen its end, every day is more unemployed, now is a good time, as we have already heard, that the problem of social assistance is more systematically addressed by a specific system law. Thus, social work centres should have all the data on all benefits, both individuals and families, and of course the wealth situation of all recipients. If we need officials and others to present the wealth situation publicly, why not the users, because in this area there is a lot of harassment at the local level, when sometimes they are getting one that is driving - not to say with what. So I think this system law is going to solve this matter more consistently. We also read in the coalition agreement that coalition partners in the field of social protection will ensure poverty reduction, social inclusion and an effective social transfer policy. We will therefore re-examine the minimum level of social security and determine its height at a level that ensures a decent life. The way is good, so we hope that this law that is yet to be prepared will see the light of the world as soon as possible. For, as I have mentioned, the crisis is deepening and there will be more needs. Of course, at least something is better than nothing, so the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word is given by Vito Rožej on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u86	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Members, we will, of course, support the proposed Act on a Special Supplement for Socially Intruded because it is a law which in these difficult times means a patch for all those who cannot afford a decent life with their income. What seems particularly important to us is that the recipients of aid under this law are, in our opinion, much more just than in the past under some other laws that have been or may have been pre-chosen or rather populistly proposed in an unimaginable way and have already received them at the table in this mandate. At the same time, it should also be agreed with the concerns that the establishment of this circle of beneficiaries should not only be linked and solely to remuneration, but should be linked to assets, which is unfortunately too much lobbyistic for this country to know and manage these social transfers as well as the areas of property. In doing so, we are indeed pleased with the constructive approach of the Ministry in the Group of Members, which, at our warning among the recipients of the aid, also included the recipients of the maternity allowance, the compensation for the care and protection of the child, the adoption allowance and the parental allowance. This is not a matter of terribly large social groups or of saying otherwise, it is a social group that may not bring a lot of votes in the elections, but it is a group of people who are very threatened because we must not forget the social situation of these groups, because if we do, we can forget the future that may be waiting for us or waiting for us because we all know what the demographic picture of our country is. Many words were also said on the Committee itself on the amount of individual aid, and finally on the total amount earmarked for these aids. It is true that these aids will not improve the material situation of the beneficiaries, but will certainly help to alleviate the difficulties they are in. It's an intervention law. We hope that the future will no longer be needed. However, as regards its temporal effect, it must be said that autumn is probably a good choice at the additional costs that the beneficiaries have or with school supplies, heating, wintering and the like. We hope it works at the right time. We also believe in the Group of Members because the concerns were expressed on the Committee that the network of social work centres, of course, is a real network that has an overview of who is entitled and will be able to distribute these financial resources transparently to those most in need. We are pleased that the law is part of such support. We hope, as has already been said, that there will no longer be a need for intervention law in the future, but, of course, if the Ministry finds other means and if so, we will be happy to support such laws in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u88	Mr President, the distinguished Minister, with his co-worker, colleague and colleague. The DeSUS Group will, of course, support this law. It is a law that has to some extent been agreed in the coalition contract, although we believe that it departs in this sense that it is right that all those who have small incomes receive assistance, not only pensioners, but, of course, a substantially smaller amount than has been agreed, so we think that by adopting this law the agreement in the coalition contract is not fully consummated. It is important to stress that this is a relatively low income limit to which beneficiaries will receive financial social assistance. In doing so, it is also very important that the Ministry has done everything to ensure that only those who have low income are the only sources of survival or life, and not those who have different sources of income or property, which has not been taken into account in the supplement that has been used so far. We believe that EUR 15 million is significantly lower than what we have been talking about, but in the given economic situation and the country's difficulties in providing everything else in our country, what we can give right now is not important that all these 15 million go directly to consumption, which is good for converting money into money flows and can help, although to a lesser extent. We think it is right that we adopt this or that we adopt this law today, even though it would not have hurt if it had been earlier, perhaps even in the first package of measures, but better late than never. We hope that it will be real as soon as possible and that we will, of course, be able to admit that a smaller share of this amount of 15 million for pensioners will actually be allocated. As a result, I mentioned earlier that the Group of Members is thinking in this direction that this measure does not fully exploit the agreement reached in the coalition and that in the coming period, in view of the situation they are going to be in, we will do something else to get the addition of those who may have a few euros over that limit, which is now set, but also have a hard time living, which cannot be denied. As has already been said, we fully support the law because the nature of the measure is to preserve the social state, to help those most in need at this time of economic and social life, as well as the monetary crisis, and therefore the DeSUS Group will be pleased to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on a Special Supplement for Socially Intruded is certainly a law that we will also support in the Slovenian National Party. However, as has already been said, I would also like to make some comments on my parent’s working body this time. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that social work centres do not work as they should, or - that I will not express a strongly negative opinion - we could do better. It is also necessary to establish a register, in our view, or a record of the recipients of social assistance. I think that this will be regulated by the system law that is in preparation - I think that one of the speakers, the predecessors, has already mentioned these 15 million euros, but according to the principle of the social state, should be distributed to all those groups of the population that are really at the minimum standard of living. The global crisis, of course, has not affected these populations in our country either, but we cannot agree that this law will prevent damage and that it will solve the actual social distress. This is a one-off measure and if we look at that, for example, that the family will be able to receive up to 200 euros once and, of course, cash assistance to single people can be given up to 160 euros, then this is not a large amount. True, a family who is accustomed to modest living can help with such a one - time assignment. The beneficiaries of low pensions, pension recipients with a protective allowance, then military insurers, physically affected persons, as well as socially disadvantaged persons who are on the list of persons with the so-called status of foreigners, will be able to receive this. In particular, persons referred to in this last indication or foreigners or asylum seekers in the Republic of Slovenia who are authorised to reside permanently in the Republic of Slovenia shall be entitled to financial or social assistance. And I'd like to stop here for a while. As already said in the previous law, when Mr Silven Majhenič presented his position, we have said how much an individual or family who have been declared refugees can gain from us. It is unjustifiable to draw funds from these 15 million also for this group, which otherwise has a minimum social adequacy and accommodation in the Republic of Slovenia. We think that the centres for social work - in their competence, the distribution of these funds - should ensure that these funds are distributed fairly, especially to those who are truly on the verge of social sustainability. I hope that if we find that this measure has not been sufficient to repeat this in this context, the Minister-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u92	Hello! Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. We also agree that it must take effect the next day after the publication of the Official Journal, as the saying goes, "Whoever quickly does, twice does." In particular, we should be aware of this in the rescue of Slovenian companies, such as Mura, because it is unacceptable that the Government did not react in a timely manner, since there are thousands of people and families involved in social security. At such events, it seems that the adoption of the law before us is like a drop into the sea. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed height of the supplement is too low to really solve the difficulties. However, better than nothing - says another river. With a single amount of € 160, or if €120 is refunded among the recipients, someone who receives €268 per month can pay, for example, a monthly rate of €268 per month. Then what's it gonna be? It is true that this is an intervention law, and we must urgently take systemic solutions in our country in order to raise the level of minimum social security. The problem of low remuneration needs to be addressed in a systematic way, not just with a one-off annual allowance. By raising the lowest wages and pensions, we would raise the minimum threshold and help improve the social situation of the poorest, and structural changes must be made. Above all, the competitiveness of the domestic economy must be made possible in order to ensure safe jobs and to pay taxes and contributions to fill cash. However, when adopting intervention laws, we must be aware that social policy cannot replace bad economic policy. In doing so, we repeat what we have been working on in the Slovenian People's Party for several mandates, namely that it is necessary to set up a single record, to establish a common denominator for the remuneration of individuals and families, in order to make it transparent for each recipient, what and how much he receives from the State or other public institutions and institutions as social aid or as another beneficiary. In our view, it is unacceptable that without work it is possible to obtain more benefits than by working on a farm or as workers or pensioners. Finally, it is necessary to simplify the records and the review of receipts received from individuals and families from the budget or from various state treasuryes, as it happens that someone without work receives more from different titles than a worker or pensioner. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law, we also support the urgent procedure and amendments of the committee that improve the text of the law and shorten the deadline for enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the Law on a Special Supplement for the Social Threats, which we believe is also urgently needed, because the law means that the provision of a social state is put to rest, which means ensuring the continuity of the minimum standard of living for every individual who, for certain economic or other reasons, cannot obtain sufficient resources for a decent life. In this context, in the LDS Club, we believe that it is essential for the country to provide assistance in order to achieve a level playing field for social differences, particularly in times of economic and financial crisis. We justify and deal with the law through three important aspects. The first conclusion is that it is one of the laws which has an intervention nature and which seeks to mitigate not only the consequences of the economic crisis and the financial crisis, but mainly to help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a law must be understood in the context of other measures taken by the Government, including in the field of development, in the field of economy, finance, because it can only be understood in this context. So this is a universal supplement, as has been said many times in the context of predecessors, so we treat all social groups in the same way and give them one-off cash assistance. According to the Ministry, it is estimated at around 120,000 people, so those who will receive this one-off aid, so those whose benefits are extremely low, can be said to be difficult or even to cover the cost of living. In the first group, there are beneficiaries of monetary social assistance under social protection rules, where single persons receive a special allowance of € 160 and families of €200. The second group is broader and will improve the material and social situation of the different categories of persons under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, on parental protection and family benefits, and among the recipients are those who are beneficiaries of disability benefits and beneficiaries of unemployment benefits. It was extremely important to emphasise that the law should also be understood in the time dimension, so it was of course important that we adopted an amendment on the committee, that the law was in force on the date of the adoption of the law and that the aid would be paid as early as the next month after the adoption of the law. Of course, the question is also the amount of aid. Everyone would like the aid to be higher and possibly to include an even larger number of people. But we need to understand the moment we are in, the effects of the economic and financial crisis and the possibilities of the state budget. Of course, we want help to achieve its goal of improving people's standard of living, even though perhaps the amounts are not sufficient. However, we would like to see that further such laws - we hope, of course, that these laws will no longer be necessary and that the economic and financial situation will be such that there will be a renewed economic momentum, that there will be a re-conjunction, that unemployment will be reduced and that other structural changes, which are necessary, will lead to the building in Slovenia of such a concept of development that will employ people in better and better paid jobs, which will also improve the social situation of those who, say, receive certain social transfers. Therefore, we also point out that, in the case of other laws, it might be possible to consider not talking about classes, but talking about the federal payment of this aid. Because it is very difficult to understand that someone who exceeds one euro below the threshold gets a few ten euros lower aid. However, we are also working in the parliamentary club and we expect the Minister to be able to arrange for such a review of social transfers within one entry and exit point, following the long-standing promises of past governments in this mandate, and thus to obtain a clearer, easier and better overview of what is going on in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Two amendments have been tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors [[You received an amendment dated 8. Seven. 2009]] . Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. In fact, I am glad that this law has also occurred, as we have considered this law in that version that we have prepared in our parliamentary group. And I have somehow concluded that I expect the Ministry to really prepare this law by 1 July 2009, as it has done, and this is basically good. However, it must be said that this law nevertheless has one bitter taste. Why? For the basic reason that the law stems essentially from a coalition contract, and this coalition contract has foreseen, as I recall, 60 million euros in those earmarked, but only pensioners with the lowest pensions would receive it, the coalition is now expanding to all with low incomes, which is also meaningful and good - this is basically what needs to be said. But there is also something that, at least according to the treaty or agreement of the coalition and government normative programme, one could say or at least one who reads a little analytically would say that the coalition meant to keep it a secret and did not mean to accept it at all, which is not in the normative programme, so that only questions were asked and then related to our version of the law have come to this. It's good that this has happened, of course I'm very happy, I'll support the marriage myself as it is. I would also like to say that it would be good for DeSUS to insist and I am pleased at what Mr Žnidaršič, the leader of the Group of Members, said that they only understand this as a partial realization of the coalition agreement, that there is still something missing, and that is, in particular, that amount of up to 45 million. It would be good to insist on this, too, that we are right to these people, and it is right that we are right to be right to our own promises and those of our own records. Of course, I am aware, I will say, of the economic situation in which the country is, but it is only right that this should happen. In short, in any case, as far as I'm concerned, I think that all of us in this room, of course, the law has support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will be very pleased to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am sure that it improves the bill in its original form, including by increasing the funds from €15 million to €60 million. It seems very important to me to emphasise that this amendment foresees that this supplement would be paid four times: in August, September, October and November, and then, of course, we could talk about what is the intent of the law when we say that the purpose of the law is to improve the material and social position of the various categories of the population. After this amendment, each recipient would receive between €320 and €800 of this supplement. Now I will try to explain why we have actually tabled this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Therefore, it follows from the original law that the beneficiaries covered by this law would receive between €80 and €200 of allowances, namely those beneficiaries with income between €250 and €320. Even on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I have already pointed out that it seems to me that 15 million for such a large group as this law covers, i.e. 120,000 recipients under this law, is the amount of €15 million that makes me think that this government, which proposed this bill, is either making fun of people, those groups of people, or that it is so cynical of this group of people. Why do I say that? Because I have calculated: if an individual, the recipient of this supplement, would be given 80 euros per month, so if we divided it into 12 months, 6.6 euros per month. And if this is what we want to do when we talk about the intent of law to improve the material and social situation of these categories of people, then I really don't understand anything in this country. And that's what makes me think of this government's enormous cynicism to this group of people. With €6.6 we want to improve their status, their economic situation. That's unacceptable! And when, on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I also reminded Mr Minister, whom I warmly welcome here, he answered me, of course, that this is a one-month supplement. That's right, I totally agree with that. However, I am reminding you something -- these people who have 250 to 320 euros a month and receive this income a month, 12 times a year, let someone in the National Assembly, one of you who are in this Chamber, tell me whether this money, 250 to 320 euros, can survive. If there is a root that can answer this question firmly, then I think this law is right at the right time and in the right place. But I'm sure he's not in the National Assembly. I know companies where workers now receive between 500 and 550 euros in wages by working Saturdays, weeks, holidays and nights. What about this group of people? Is it possible that these 550-euro workers will survive? No way, no way! And that's the problem you have to deal with. Not to make fun of people with 6.6 euros a month! On the other hand, we are looking at where the oil derivatives went, where the toll went, not to mention the problematic story of the deleted and their decisions. Then the court salary, from 25 to 28%, is expected to improve, and so on. And then we say we want to help this group of people - from 6.6 euros a month! This is extreme cynicism and extreme ridicule from this group of people. That is why we decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to table this amendment, because this amendment could slightly improve their situation if we gave them this supplement in the month of August, September, October and November - i.e. four times. With this addition, perhaps one of these citizens could buy some important school supplies for his child in September and so on. However, with 80 euros in 320 euros of monthly income, this is really absurd. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will be very pleased to support this amendment, because I think it is well-intentioned and is indeed written on the skin and in the interest of those who still need it. And once again, I hope and believe that this coalition and this government will once and for all understand that it is necessary to approach new solutions in such a way that they improve the status of those who have 550 euros per month who go for 550 euros in work and work, as I said, holiday, Sunday, night, etc. Just for the record. So when we had the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, when I talked about this issue, about the 550 Euros that are due to those who are doing the holidays, the night, the Sundays, it was just one lady from the Social Democrats that warned me that I, in my previous mandate, when another government, namely, the government of Janez Janša, as a coalition Member, did nothing for those people, but today I can tell you, and also there I told you publicly, for the first time, it was the Paloma company, where I spent hundreds of hours talking to the SOD, the CAD, with the economic and financial ministry, that today this company remained and I am proud of it, together with the union, the labour council, all those who worked here to do business positively today. God does not allow this government and this coalition to fail to follow these guidelines, which were set up at the time, so that today we can say that Paloma is slowly being revived and also works positively with the current business. But it was only for intervention, because it encouraged me on this committee for work, family and social affairs, a colleague of the SD. One more for the end. I am sure that this amendment, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, will also be very pleased to confirm, at least I believe that you think you are serious about helping this group seriously. I'm sure you won't allow the mockery and extreme cynicism of this government towards this group of people. I will support this amendment and also the law, because it is certainly better for people to get something than nothing, but it is, of course, shameful and absurd that someone will get 6.6 euros a month, and that is what goes beyond all the limits of good taste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. There is a minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u100	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I am obliged to provide some clarifications in view of the ongoing debate. Once again, I would like to point out that without a law which is interventional and which means one-off financial social assistance. The conversion of this aid to an annual level does not have any logical basis, because we also do not know what is actually going to happen during the year after this law is passed. Among other things, let's say we revalue monetary social transfers by 2.3% in July. These revalorisations may be even more so, depending on the basis for such revalorisations. Above all, I would like to say that we have proposed such an intervention law because it was too early to submit the systemic solutions already mentioned here. We are opening up the whole area of system-wide regulation of social legislation: from this law, to eligibility to public funds, to the payment of monetary social assistance, the organisation of a social work centre and long-term care. In doing so, we will also take into account the new assessment of the cost of living that we are studying these days and will give it to the public, Members and all those interested in it in the coming days. This assessment will show how much euro can be spent. It is difficult to see, to think of such assessments, so of course we would not like to make such judgments in advance, even to make decisions until we have detailed information on this. As a result, once this system legislation has been adopted, we will also be able to reconcile the level of social transfers and their structure and relations accordingly. Including records of how much someone receives, what is its assets and total income, and, of course, including the payment technology mentioned here. So I think that the adoption of the amendment to go into the monthly payment of the supplement that we are now proposing as a one-off supplement would be some kind of quasi-system solution that we cannot accept for this reason. At the same time, of course, we also run into budgetary constraints and, of course, it is also that we do not have the exact assessment of the height needed to allow an individual to cover his or her living costs on this basis. Let me add that, according to this law, according to the calculations made last time, 121,000 persons have already been eligible for this one-time supplement. Relationships are changing. Among them are 58,000 pensioners, 45,000 recipients of financial assistance, 6,100 disabled persons, 8,600 recipients of unemployment benefits, and 3,300 beneficiaries of parental benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u102	Hello again, all present! I mentioned earlier that if these meals were more than once, or at least every month, bliss would be greater. Since this 60 million was envisaged in the coalition agreement, we were just assuming that we could divide this category of people with the lowest income. Because the crisis this year, as we have heard, is deepening, and this one-time action is certainly better than nothing, but it will not improve their social situation. This is a category, as previously mentioned, including the majority of pensioners with the lowest pensions, who have been promised more than once. In particular, one of the coalition’s parties has taken a strong stand and has also received elections to ensure the growth of pensions, in particular those of the lowest, or supplements that are expected to be paid at least twice a year. And now is the opportunity to give or decide for those categories of people who are materially threatened and these are quite a few among pensioners, as well as in other categories. Therefore, I will support an amendment that would allow a single supplement, a one-off aid to be extended to four months or otherwise divided into multiples, allowing the socially disadvantaged to be able to survive more easily to the system law you are promising, and then, by these categories, they will be somewhat easier to recognize. Surely there will be fewer who are materially provided with real estate and so on if this new law takes this category into account. By awaiting this system law, however, we will allow these categories of our people to survive the fall. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Andrey Richter has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. I did not intend to advertise, but thank the Minister for Specificity and once again for explaining that the Government and this coalition are very serious and that once and for all they have fully understood that a reform of pension insurance must be made and that, finally, they have fulfilled the promises they made two months or three months ago to implement the whole matter. I have quite a few problems with individuals who are beneficiaries of disability benefits who are unemployed, and I am very pleased that this matter is intervention and intervention and that this category now includes individuals in this category. For this reason, I cannot absolutely support the amendment, because intervention is necessary, immediately and therefore, at the time of adoption, I am counting that we will all agree to the adoption of the law, all interested parties or groups that are also listed, receive a single compensation already in the following month, and among them there are as many as 6,100 persons, as the Minister has just stated, out of disability insurance. As I say, the issue at the beginning and the expert commissions are finally also appointed to prepare a comprehensive reform also below. That is why I cannot support the amendment, but I fully support the law on the socially disadvantaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I see the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this law as bad news from the previous term when it was not ready to give even the six euros that Mr Pojbič was talking about to the poorest. I mean social supporters, unemployed people or those who receive unemployment benefits and so on, but only pensioners, even though we said then that there are many others in this country who are poor. I will not support this amendment. Nor is this because, then, if it did, those covered here would get disproportionately more than just a one-off allowance at the border, which is set to receive this supplement at all. In all the matter, the good purpose of your amendment came at the wrong time: at a time of relative prosperity, there was no all who were poor received anything. That wish wasn't there. On the contrary, the supplement that went to the largest electoral base in the country, that is, the pensioners, was almost as close as the savings from the social transfers law that he had just picked up, the alignment with wages, and was only a few ten thousand euros less than a one-time supplement. The one-time supplement also had this weakness to compare those with 15, 20 and those with 40 years of working age. The comments on this topic went to the wind, and everyone, including those driving with macedes, received the supplement because their assets or their overall social status were not taken into account, but only a direct benefit from pension and disability insurance, which was declassified and the proposals in this direction were disregarded. This is why it is today to demand that every three months 60 million be spent in a year just for this group, once again missing those who are something on it, of course, is not a good solution and cannot be supported. More money, or so much money for those who also live poorly, but have something small more, and there is no way to demand it, because we are in a crisis and something similar to the previous coalition with us, of course, has not come up with it. In doing so, I would like to say something else that the social transfers to the pensioners, 30 000 400 pensioners, have already received an annual allowance of 150 euros at the annual level by the year before last, because they received a lower allowance than they would have otherwise received because of the Act on the freezing of social transfers. Pensions were valorized with a few cents over the border and lost 150 euros at the annual level. What is this information for this year, it is not yet known, otherwise this number is certainly larger, but for the number I have mentioned, I guarantee because it is indisputable and comes from the statistics of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, although I did not count them to the individual exactly, but even a few over this number. I want to say the following: it is right that the Government has decided to give this route to those in the country who have less than €320 per month. It does sound small if we give it separately each month, but it is stressed that it is a one-off supplement and that it is not about increasing revenue that would continue to run throughout the year, because then we would break all relations and, of course, this money that would solve the problem in this way, but we simply do not have at the time of the economic and financial crisis in our country. That is why we will support the amendment tabled by the coalition and cannot support the SDS amendment for these reasons. That is how it is, it is not possible to rule out well-intentionedness altogether, but it is at the wrong time, when more opportunities were available, there were no such proposals. And here it is, I would say, the internal contradiction of the SDS practice in the previous mandate and the proposal that comes in this, which is significantly more difficult and limited to finance than the previous one. For this reason, I say again that this amendment cannot be supported. However, we support the Government's efforts to prepare solutions in the perspective of comprehensive social resolution in our country and such proposals and solutions will be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u109	You'll be right after this show. I didn't see you. You'll be right after this show.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u110	Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members. I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, although it is possible to count on how the arrows will shoot and talk about how we are not socially sensitive. But I have already explained on the committee that I consider the proposed law for intervention law, which only has one purpose: to mitigate the effects of single social assistance in the category of the population most affected by the crisis. It is therefore pointless to discuss the amount of this aid on a monthly basis, since the aid will be paid in a single amount. I would, however, like to respond to some of the reflections that have been heard in the opinions of the groups of Members and draw attention to some internal disagreement in the adoption of the various measures. When we passed the Act on Social Transfers in the previous term, the Group of Social Democrats was very critical of that law because it pointed out a number of inconsistencies, irregularities, some of which have already been pointed out by coalition Members and Members in the debate. But look, in the moment that we took measures in the previous term that didn't take into account the social component, for example, a free hot meal for the diocese population, a free kindergarten for the other child -- what do I mean by the social component? When the wealth situation of the recipients of these aid is no longer relevant to whether or not who receives this aid, it is impossible to refer to what kind of car someone comes in when they bring a child into kindergarten, and this cannot be - I understand the desire to have at one entry point all the information on what an individual or individual household gets from public funds and this is what the Government also has in mind to do and support the Government in doing so, and this is one of those systemic supplies that this Government is waiting for. I also support the Government in its efforts to determine what the needs of an individual or a household are to say where the country must intervene. You will recall, of course, if you wish that in the previous term we have pointed out that the threshold of poverty is a category that is poorly defined and should be reconsidered. All of this, at least these two measures are extremely important and will, in the long term, hopefully, resolve things better than they are now. At this point in time, the Government is trying to alleviate problems in the population category, whether it is pensioners, students, employees or unemployed, it is, in short, those whose total income is so low that we assume that the crisis has affected them more than any other. Once again, it would be good if the amount could be higher, but the best of all will be when we find the cure for the crisis we are witnessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u112	Dear President, it's a replica because Mr. Žnidaršič mentioned me personally. He said that we should have a bad conscience in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we did not do something. There's something I'd like to say first. So, Mr President, I don't think we're saving things in this Slovenian country, but we're saving them. So it is clear to us that the situation, the crisis and all that is today and now, is at this moment. And we need to look for solutions that will be such and so written down so that they will be written on the skin of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. However, I mean, at least I don't want to deal with the things you're talking about, which have been overlooked in the past, in running the previous government and so on. Although I must stress in particular, the previous government - and I will now reexplain this - the previous government has raised the child allowance, increased the scholarships, increased the subsistence allowance, increased the minimum wage, gave the pension allowance to the pensioners, free kindergarten for the other child and so on. This is a whole bunch of things that are connected, and if you connect them with each other, you can assess how much each family has had a positive impact on all of these measures that I've just listed. And then someone just like that, across my thumb, says that the previous government, or we, Members and Members of Parliament, who were in the previous government in the coalition, that we have a bad conscience. I think we have taken a comprehensive approach to solving this problem. And when we gave the pension supplement - what do you think this opposition was saying?Oh, my God! That it's a pre-election candy. So if you're a citizen and you're a citizen, if you're a pensioner, you give a bonus, it's a pre-election candy. I hope and would be happy if the elections were every year, then every year every government should do what it is, the duty of every government - to help citizens and citizens to resolve the situation they are facing because of such or other situations. Thus, I cannot accept in any way the fact that Mr Žnidaršič, who was also in the previous government, has taught me what the previous government has not done. And he denied himself; the man was there; he voted there--one of the loudest Members. And when the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a pension allowance three months ago, what happened?Oh, my God! Most of DeSUS's parties voted against it. Please, dear colleagues and friends, and then I don't know who's crazy here anymore! Is it me? For others [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u113	Mr. Pojbich, time for replica, three minutes, is up. Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u114	Yeah, I'll finish. And, Mr President, I would like to say this in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u115	Please, Mr. Pojbich, finish because time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u116	I'm sorry, it's just... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u118	Here's what I'm trying to say. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u119	You can't do this anymore! Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u120	Do not take [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u121	You can sign up for the debate. Thank you. The word is Alice Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. So, of course, we support the law because it brings something good to those who are socially at risk in this country or some such supplement, they need some such assistance from the state. In view of that law, several times already mentioned, which we proposed and implemented last year and was branded as a pre-election candy, is, of course, the fact that the circle of beneficiaries is expanding, but a smaller number of people will receive this supplement. Although the minister mentions the number 120 thousand because he counts the family or divides it into family members, if we look at the data attached to it, that is, in the introductory explanations why the law comes to the number 60 thousand, if we count 14,000 families. It is true, however, that there are several family members and that they will receive these 200 euros. I am generally pleased that we have abandoned the rhetoric of "pre-election candy" although, as far as I know, some are already very busy with local elections. Perhaps, then, such a law is proposed in this sense. As has already been predicted, in previous mandates we have tried to help in different ways, not only with a single addition, but by actually increasing those subsidies of the country that actually mean something to the family. From the children’s allowance to the allowance for large families, the teaching fund. We tried to relieve our parents specifically and in those things that they always referred to as the ones most burdensome. Now it happens the other way around, that we're giving some extra here, with this law, and even though inflation is low, this time - because you remember last year, it was terrible inflation, terrible poverty, and that's why we had to take action, and we did. Now inflation is low, and you burden people in other ways, you raise the price of vignettes, you raise excise duties, in short, you burden them on those segments where people are actually dependent on it every day, or they don't have any other choice than to allocate funds for all of this. And in the opening remarks, it was said that the government needed to be trusted. We find it very difficult to trust because it changes daily or changes very large amounts monthly. In the case of subsidised working time, we have moved from 230 million already to 53 million euros, and we would expect that, given that some money remains there, the government may be more ambitious and that it would rather raise the child's allowance, rather than align itself with the social transfers mentioned or in the way that social transfers are coordinated, which means one or two euros and probably costs more to send the social work centres to all addresses, that the child allowance has been coordinated for one euro or two. It would probably be more effective if we calculated how much a child's allowance, for example, or any other social transfers we could raise; and we would certainly be more ambitious, too, so we proposed such an amendment. And if I return to the trust of the government again. I regret that, above all, I am seeing Minister Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and less Minister for the Economy, because the fact is that with social and additional subsidies, social transfers will not save our future, and we will do so with a good economic policy, which I very much miss here. As long as this is the case, it will be very difficult for us to trust this government, even less to believe that it will reduce unemployment in order to maintain jobs. I propose and I will break the amendment, which we have tabled to give a slightly more serious number, a little more serious means to those at risk. 15 million is, as I said, we have already saved 4/5 of what you planned in the subsidised working time, so there should be no difficulty in diverting funds from that title to that address.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! I will support this law, even though it was a much better law than the opposition or the SDS. But I will also support the amendment so that we can improve this law accordingly. Coalition Members themselves find that the proposed law is not in the spirit of a coalition agreement, especially because the amounts are as small as they were intended to be. Of course, more than this number is concerned about the general situation in the country. It worries that production is falling, that more and more are unemployed, that there are more and more poverty and more poverty in the country. It is therefore paradoxical that the state does not commit anything to Muri to raise its hands around Mura, where workers can serve their own bread by maintaining their own production, take care of their own existence, social security, and, on the other hand, through intervention legislation, we allocate money for social assistance. Poor thing, she was poor and she will be. Our objective must be to make this as small as possible and consequently to have as few such intervention laws as possible and such intervention measures. Unfortunately, this government only extinguishes the consequences, especially with gasoline, but not with water. The government is doing a bad job, and this is what the public opinion has found. Look at today's work. Five months of government support is down, and the government is in power for seven months. So, support only grew when Borut Pahor made up the government. But she's successful at promotion, at self-promotion. We can talk about some kind of pathological narcissism of this government on the one hand, and on the other hand about the violent inability to deal with the economic and financial crisis. And it is to fear, even in view of these reactions on the other hand, that this government will in the future seek its old paradigm, to equality, but equality in poverty, as we have seen it 20 years ago, of course, and wealth is measured only for elites. It used to be a party elite, but today it's a tycoon elite. And both first and second came to their wealth under very strange circumstances, not with knowledge, not with work, not with ability, but with privilege, with deceit and also with lawlessness. I'm glad it was said here today that our amendment was well-intentioned. I hope you will be well-intentioned, and you will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Several times there has been a speech that has been spoken in Parliament by the public and that, despite the freedom of speech guaranteed, politicians should be alert to the language of our language. I will start to collect "petkisms" slowly, because this one about the pathological narcissism of the government already belongs in a set of those and joins in some chat or concern of Mr Petk, because he has several ministers, which civil society has responded to. Mr. Friday, you have lost that privilege with which you boasted. When you were a journalist, there were no comments on your articles, now that you are in Parliament, consider this my speech as a condemnation of your statements that want to be witty and metaphorical, but are offensive. Now, to what is yet another word to be said, regarding the law and these amendments that have been tabled. Of course, it is now possible to talk about ambition or non-ambitiousness, but look at what it means to be ambitious, ambitious. What greatness should be linked to the crisis, to the intervention measures and to the lower inflow of resources to the budget as planned. What do you really want? Has anyone possibly calculated how much money would be needed to meet all the requirements we have heard? I will only say one flower - when I addressed the economic and financial minister in the previous term the question of how the state will help solve the crisis in an economic entity where, through Kad and Sod, 71% had a share, I was taught that there is now a different system in which the Minister of Economy cannot be involved in economic matters. Let's just say that this same economic minister went to another economic operator and then went there after the lost elections. Let us now allow this first economic operator to be required by a national party and not by someone who has been dealing with problems for hundreds and hundreds of hours. All of this needs to be known when we boast about what we have done and how much we have done. If you are now calling for the state's assistance for Mura, you did not wish to give it to Paloma or get involved in the rescue. And a lot more could be added to the account of what has been said, but let's go back to the intervention law, go back to how the state wants to deal with the situation in the context of available resources for those most affected by the crisis. But none of us have ever claimed that this is enough, that it is large enough to solve all our problems. It's small, but at least it's arranged so that it's meant for those who are most at risk. And that's what's most important right now, I think. This must also be done through other mechanisms, and I think that if we add up what the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has committed through other intervention measures, then the image is not as negative as you want the opposition Members to prove it. With regard to the pre-election candy you shared, it must be said that the obligations are now easily accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u127	Replica, Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Since Mrs. Potter really sees everything and knows everything, would you really ask her to tell me where the term pathological narcissism is offensive? It's a graphic expression, it's a publicistic expression, it's an illustrative expression, it's a multifaceted expression, where that expression is offensive, and you'll tell me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u129	I'd get involved here, but I'm not gonna do it because I'm in charge of the session, but whatever. The word is Marijan Pojbič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u130	Dear President, since my time in replica has not run out before and I haven't had a chance to finish my thoughts, I'm going to try now. But there have also been some new challenges at this time, and I hope to respond to them. First of all, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the critical situation in the country. At that time, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled several proposals by Borut Pahor than this government. So, what this means - that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware of what our duty is, in fact, whether we are in a position or opposition, together we are responsible for the functioning of this country. And I hope that one day there will be a moment in this country that we will understand that the National Assembly is not intended for SD, SDS and so on that the National Assembly is dedicated and elected to seek the appropriate solutions that will be written on the skin of the Slovenians and Slovenes. Constantly saying what the previous government has done wrong, what this government is doing wrong is not a key issue for me. A key question for me is how to approach solutions that will benefit all Slovenes and Slovenians. That's a key question. And it is precisely the Slovenian Democratic Party of this amendment that has tabled, not for the purpose of politicising in the National Assembly, but for one key purpose: that we will indeed follow a dictatorship which is the intention of the proposed law. It clearly sets out what the purpose of this law is, and this amendment wants only to follow and improve this bill. A colleague from SD can't leave me alone in any way, and from each of her discussions arrows fly directly to me, it is said, directly or directly to the previous government. She was talking about Paloma again. Whoever convened the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the Economy, which did not contribute anything. This was politicisation, and it was clearly seen that it was days before the elections. And what did the SD want, and what did those who called it want to accomplish? Political polls. As a Member coming from Sweet Top, however, I had a completely different interest - an interest to help the environment and those who are employed there. That was my goal and my interest. That's why I didn't show up in the media, so I didn't talk about the articles at dinner, so I didn't go to the radio, and here I was performing, performing, because that wasn't my goal. My goal was to help those people, so I spent hundreds of hours in the background trying to help and contribute to what the MP was given to save an important company like Paloma. And thank God, too, the previous government has changed leadership, which has not worked well, in the previous term. We will see if this government, this coalition, capable of which of its colleagues, who have already put them in certain positions to be dissolved in their mandate, will see. Dear colleagues, there are words, empty rumors, and there are other acts that can be proved and stand. That's what I think is extremely important. Here I see the difference between this government and the previous government, but once again, the common task and duty of us in the National Assembly is and also these governments to take responsibility for the leadership of this country, but not the way to deal with themselves and that the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party submits more legal proposals than the Government. That's a big one, and that's what I'm closing up with. I believe and believe that the Slovenian Democratic Party in this Parliament is also in the position of work in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and has also been elected by voters and voters. I believe that all other members of the group should think that way and act that way, but you are not doing that, it is possible, and there has been a lot of evidence so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u131	I would like to point out that they are discussing the amendment in Article 4. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I would just like to say this that I have never stated that the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have a bad conscience, but that I understand this amendment, that is all I wanted to say is that there would be no unnecessary perceptions that are not in place. That's how I understood, and then I explained why. Things are like we said. It is also true that at the time we supported that pensioner allowance, it is still better that it was received by pensioners than none. However, it was not a good solution, and for this statement that it was a bad solution, I am still standing, especially because in such a position I am also supported by the Union of Retired Slovenian Associations, which has 235,000 members, and this is not a small number of the civil society of voters who opposed such a solution. That story about the pre-election action at the time is well founded. Since similar feelings about how the poor should be helped, it has not been possible to adopt the Social Transfers Act, which since 2006, when it was adopted, to date has paid the minimum wage to the level of 2000. That's the official information I found in the statistics. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I also have to say that when you arrested me, there were no protests. [[...]] When it came to raising the minimum wage, I supported the amendment on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs to support 2.6 in terms of inflation, and you insisted on correcting only 2% at the time. Inflation was 2.6 and 0.6, which in the whole country meant about 900,000 dollars for all companies that had to pay more than 0.6. I say this so that not too many words can be said about how good and well-intentioned someone is when it comes to those with the lowest incomes, and at a time, on your part, the prosperity has been proclaimed. Today, talking only about benevolence in large numbers, which are required to help the poor, is unfair, unrealistic and, of course, once again says something about the applicants. Indeed, when possible, we are extremely troubled when it comes to poverty. But when it's not, then we're broad-minded, of course, with the financials being provided by someone else. And it is not possible to accept such manners that the government does not now consider the poor to give too little. Of course, we have also said that we will instill further deterioration of the material situation of pensioners and this is in the coalition contract. But we negotiated at the beginning of the crisis when we didn't even know where we were going with this crisis. And with the consequences that this crisis has brought, then, of course, we have deviated from the absolute requirement to implement that coalition agreement, and I think that at this stage of developments, when there are a number of other problems that are equal or more difficult, such behaviour of coalition partners is reasonable and acceptable and that once things are corrected, we will certainly say something else on this subject and follow the agreements that are in the coalition agreement. Again, I stress that it is possible to understand your amendment as well-intentioned, because it only offers, offers something more, but we cannot support it, especially from the point of view of public finances, which, of course, do not allow it and do not provide it at this time. The country has nowhere to go, so such a proposal, which, in principle, absolutely stands as a positive and good one, cannot be implemented. And that's why we won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. This proposal of the Law on a Special Supplement to the Social Threats, which is now under consideration, and amendments could also be called the Hour of Cruel Reality for the Socially Hazardous. At the same time, it is the time of credibility of the government coalition, an hour when the government coalition is in front of a mirror of its credibility, political and moral. For a quarter of what you have promised in pre-election performances and even in the coalition programme is devoted to the week when the bankruptcy administrators, because of the fact that you have committed yourself to limiting yourself, all the courts have granted enormous awards, again, at the sum that you give and "amass" that the recession is and that it is not possible to give to the socially disadvantaged, the Judean money is given to the bankruptcy managers at the same time. The names that appear in these awards, such as Marinc, Toš and so on, are from the political profile of your client, from the historical profile of your client, your customers. So you mean, if I say so, for these socially endangered 15 Kramars, as the popular word is, 45 Marine bankruptcy managers, or 60 Toš's bankruptcy manager of the Vrhnika Leather Industry. I have to say, that woman who said, "I'm looking around who I want to bang," at a time like this, I even understand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u135	Comrade Jerovšek, a moment. I would ask you not to involve people in this debate who do not have enough to deal with this National Assembly and who do not have the opportunity to respond to your implementation. I think it's a matter of ethics. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u136	Listen, it's the Jew's money they're stealing! And at a time like this, to say that this is not a result of painful self-confidence, such as pathological narcissism. Only those who have this deformity can say that they give something - you give charity. And our amendment is correcting this charity. Don't say there's no money! If there can be money for such anomalies and such frauds, then provide it for those who need it and for what you have promised. But if you are not capable of what you promised, say that this is a problem, in fact a pathological, painful phenomenon, that promises something, and then withdraws from it. And it is also very necessary in these serious economic circumstances to ensure that those most at risk are able to survive, as the possibility of survival is collapsing. And it's normal for people to see what's going on in this country. If they were realistic on such a miserable proposal, then they would not be self-insured, but they would be in a place of ashes and excuse that this is happening in this country, that while they are thundering into the collapse of the company, when workers become unemployed, when they are unable to survive, money is spent enormously, prizes are paid, new directors are politically placed who will take new prizes and in such situations cannot be planned in advance. Looks like the government coalition only cares about its personnel. Looks like it. It also seems today that the clauses you have had in recent days have not helped to move forward in order to become transparent, in order to realize that ministers capable of solving the economic crisis need to have ministers, but not only to stress that everything is going well, but all of this is going to fall apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to reiterate once again, as I have told the Group in my presentation, that this is, of course, an intervention law that aims to improve the social and material position of those on the greatest social edge, that it is a measure that will be effectively implemented if it is done quickly, and that it is carried out within the scope of the possibility. I would also like to make it clear here that the situation in which we are now is the power to address only through the course of events that have brought this situation. Because it would be very unfair to deal with this situation today, which is not related to some events in the past, in which then the current government is solving the situation in which we are in, that is, in which people in the Republic of Slovenia are in. I would like to draw attention here to one fact that we cannot forget today when we are talking about social transfers. The law adopted by the previous government and the warnings given by the then opposition will, of course, be the uncritical adoption of a law that speaks of a different coordination of social transfers, so that it can, of course, lead to a situation in which people will be in more difficult situations than they were before the adoption of the law. At that time, we made clear the financial implications, and I would like to point out here once again what amounts we were talking about at the time. Thus, the financial implications of the proposal for a law adopted in 2006, which discussed the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, amount to 822 million, even then tolars, in 2007 to be more precise. So in 2008, 3.8 billion good 3.8 billion tolars and in 2009 6.1 billion tolars. So it is measures that were then known to reduce social transfers and to make the social situation of a number of individuals or households in the Republic of Slovenia worse. I could draw here to the debates of some of the current opposition members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that it would be good for us to listen here at different moments of each other, but unfortunately our warnings were not taken into account at the time. Today, in the framework of the parliamentary position, it was presented to me that this measure should also be seen through the measures taken by that Government in various areas. Remember, maintaining jobs is a key priority. If you look at the figures that this government is giving to this area by means of measures, they are, of course, significantly higher within the available resources. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that in the years of good conjuncture, good economic growth and significantly increased growth of social gross product, we have changed the tax base in the way that we have burdened the richest in income, that we have abolished tax relief for the economy to invest in new equipment. Today we can meet the appeals of this economy dealing with the problems of modernising its technological equipment, so that it can compete in more demanding markets and survive this economic, financial crisis in a more successful way. The Slovenian economy is, of course, awaiting these measures. Yes, Mr Petan, we are doing this, but of course we are also doing it in a way that is time-consuming. If we were to do this at a time when the time was more favourable, when the economic situation was significantly better, today the Slovenian economy could be found in a significantly better condition, as it may be today. The measures taken by this Government are intended to preserve jobs. Because the best social security is to have a job. And the next law will be designed precisely to extend the validity of a measure that allows employment to be maintained. And the single law that we have here today, and I really hope that measures in other areas will be taken so that there will be no further need for single laws to improve the material social situation of individuals due to the general situation or potential for economic and financial crisis during this period. And it is very unfair that you are here today talking about the cynicism of coalition Members in a way that we would not want to help these people even more than today in terms of financial capacity. And universal social assistance speaks precisely in this direction - we do not separate, but all those who are in the same social, material situation, which is bad, which is difficult, must be helped in an equal, equal way. And I would like active employment policy measures, subsidisation of working time or compensation to pay those measures that will enable people to work so that we do not have such one-off laws that will improve the social situation. However, it is still necessary to take in the context of perhaps a number of parts or legal solutions, where it would be right to help the weak more, do not help those who may not need certain assistance in the same way. And even through this prism of the social state, the Republic of Slovenia needs to be seen in further development. That is why I am taking this measure, this intervention law, within the framework of the options given, because when we see on the other hand what cuts in the programmes will have to be adopted in the context of the second state budget rebalancing, which are the prospects of pension and health allowance, then this law must be understood in this context. It is impossible to view it as a cynicism of the behaviour of coalition Members, because I think it is the opposite. It is about action by this government, this coalition, and I hope that the National Assembly will end up supporting this law in order to improve the social situation of those who need social assistance most. Therefore, in this context, in these circumstances, it is not possible to adopt amendments that go, for example, to the extent of the resources that I am convinced that we could find support if the funds were, but, given the objectivity of the circumstances of this amendment, it is not possible to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I would also like to begin with what will be meant to continue this week. This is called an extraordinary session and a rebalance of the budget, unfortunately downwards, due to the economic opportunities we have. The fact is that the coalition agreement already states that the payment of the one-off allowance will depend on the country's social and economic potential, and that is exactly what the Government has been doing when it was implementing the coalition commitment. The assistance it provides is well-intentioned, within the scope of its potential. The fact is, as I have already said in the introduction, if you were to repeat one-off cash assistance, this would no longer be an exceptional measure. This is a system-wide measure. And we're preparing these systemic measures. But I'm asking you why you didn't accept them. I know they were ready or in the drawer two years ago, but they didn't make it. In short, the current situation needs to be fully approached and assessed. Finally, let's say 23% of Slovenia's gross domestic product is earmarked for social transfers. It also ranks alongside more developed countries and is very social. In fact, it helps its inhabitants in various ways and with various measures. With regard to those current difficulties, he still has the possibility of emergency cash assistance to help himself. But it's still social. This is what actually alleviates the dysfunctions or consequences of the functioning of the market economy. And that is why we must be aware that the situation we are in today is also due to the fact that when certain things should be done, we have not done them. I'm not just talking about your government, I'm talking about previous governments. The fact is that we have fallen asleep on the question of restructuring, so we are facing problems of low wages, so we are also facing problems of low pensions. By the way, colleague Andrey Richter made a mistake earlier, she had in mind no change in pension legislation, but social protection legislation. However, things need to be grabbed where they can be resolved by appropriate policies. And that is why we must not mix apples and pears and approach things systematically. Another observation, by the way. I can't help but avoid it. You say "only 15 million." You know, with one stroke, by adopting the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, you took away the socially disadvantaged or recipients of social transfers of EUR 29 million. So much is the calculation of what you have saved at the expense of these social beneficiaries, at a time when high inflation has already been forecast. And yet, this is not the place for us to bet on each other. I say, let's grab the right mechanisms of the right thing. The measure is well-intentioned, a law directed justly, and so let us enforce it as soon as possible so that people can get help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I'm going to start right here so that I can answer a question that I just heard about how the previous Machete Government was, and with just one swing, took 29 million of those who need help. Yeah, why don't you bring them back now! You have every opportunity to propose a law and bring them back. By the way, I support this law and also this amendment. I think about 50,000 people will get between €80 and €200, the ones most needed, although the minister says a little more. All right, that'll just be better, I'm just afraid if the total amount stays 15 million, then they'll get less. But, okay, I don't have any comments here. But I would like to draw your attention to something; you talk a lot about the former government. I think I understand why. Because you're getting spiked after that part of the government because it was doing much better. Last year, the previous government paid $60 million for the Dragan Supplement. You're proposing 15 million today, that's 4 times less. But still, there's something we're going to support. If you didn't support our law a few months ago when we proposed about a similar amount, and when the previous government proposed this 60 million, you were making fun of that supplement, talking about poverty and candy. I think it would be good if you gave me 60 million today and we could call it something different. You probably have a stake, which is why you talk so much about that government. And that talk about the candy was certainly irresponsible, unresponsible, and bitterly political. We can only see that today. But I would like to remind you of something; for we obviously do not have the same law for all of us, and we do not all share the same fate. Earlier, the colleague mentioned the data, if we distribute these 15 million, it will be about an average of €6 per month. It's really not the best comparison, but it's still because of what I'm trying to tell you. The bankruptcy managers, however, share 100,000 euros for a few months. Just an example. On Saturday, I was appalled when I heard on one of Slovenia's electronic media that the bankruptcy manager or manager from the Vrhnika leather industry would receive €230,000 for six months. It may be a mistake, but that's how I heard it. That means 40,000 euros a month. Here, however, we are talking about the six euro of those most in need of social assistance. Now tell me if this is social justice and if we are all equal before the law. The bankruptcy managers can share at this time, at this point the €40,000 per month prize on average, and here we are talking about the most needed €6. And, Your Honor, this government is obviously not capable of leading an economic policy, which is the best social policy. If we have a 9% drop in gross domestic product last year in the first four months, most of which is in Europe, it was one year ago that we had the highest growth in gross domestic product in Europe. It is said that there is a difference between what is said and what is said about the government. That is to say, if we all share fate, then bankruptcy administrators must share it, and we proposed an amendment last week so that bankruptcy managers would also receive those taxes and you were against them. You said you wouldn't support it. We'll see what you do on Wednesday when we vote. And it would be wise to support our amendment, where we would divide a little more, as much as we did last year, that's 60 million. I don't think that's a lot. However, there would be something, rather than giving bankruptcy managers a few 100,000 euros for a few months of running the company. It's called bankruptcy, not running a company. Here I ask you why at this time, at this time, I speak, they have no advantage first of paying the employee, not the bankruptcy administrators. The bankruptcy managers pay off in these days when we're in this crisis, you say nothing, they have the advantage. But workers, if there's anything left, sir, that's what I'm saying, is that it's not fair. Of course, I support this intention announced by the Minister, which is also called this law. But you have to ask yourself, is that all that can be done? I don't think so. The bankruptcy managers are a typical example when not everything is done and something else could be done and it could be substantially more fair and social justice. That is why I support this amendment that we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u144	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. I would like to stress once again that this bill really needs to be seen in the entire context of social policy and social transfers. In Slovenia we have a system of social transfers, which is good, according to the OECD estimates is even too generous. We don't think so. What is most important, in all social transfers, social mechanisms are built in, the right account is taken of practically everywhere the social economic situation of the recipients. Through the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs this year, we will distribute more than €800 million through these mechanisms for various transfers. It is therefore necessary to view this one-off aid in this context as an addition to this, as a supplement which in some way compensates for the acute social and economic situation and which is currently doing what we will systematically do on the basis of the amended and announced legislation. I would like to point out, however, that we fully agree as a ministry with the conclusion that this amendment is not a multiple payment of this aid only for the issue of finance, although it is also extremely important in this situation, but that it is to put the aid in an unequal position, that we would create an unfair situation for these recipients in view of those recipients who do not come to the aid that we will provide under this law. Multiple payments would create such a situation. And I think it's important to take account of that in decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you. I see the deadlines for the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Greetings to the Minister and his associates! I think that the Ministry has prepared the necessary and, above all, the real law, which, if we look at it more broadly, is definitely going in the right direction. I will distance myself from the debates we've heard about one government and the other government, that's not helping those who are having a hard time living today. I have to say, because I am in contact with a very large number of such people every day, that, of course, little help or literally every euro means a lot to them in alleviating major problems. I also agree with this that, of course, the system of social assistance in Slovenia is relatively rich. However, I would point to what I always warn, but within the system we have something else, I would say, so-called black holes or areas where, of course, some who are more skilled can draw more from this cake of social transfers, to express themselves even more precisely, to get more than they do, and, of course, to those who are less resourceful, less loud, or, more ashamed, to some, unfortunately, even less, and always to try to use these discussions also to ensure that, of course, this system of social assistance is constantly being re-examined, modernised and that, as long as we detect mistakes and 'defects' that we are trying to install them and then eliminate them. I think that the minister and his team have set the work right, so of course the government amendment and the bill will receive my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u148	Nicely greeted. Of course, the problem of the fourth amendment is also in public finances, but the Minister has already said so. I will not deal with the previous government, which is of course in history and is written in black letters, as the voters have confirmed. When we talk about whether the government is dealing with itself, perhaps the external appearance is that, because the triggering of affairs, media and other things, and accidentally involving certain things, contributes to people having the wrong idea and the opposition is trying very hard to make this opinion apply everywhere. However, when we are doing an accurate analysis of what the Government is doing, and what its actions are, how I am coming into Parliament, etc., we find that the Government is doing well, in these times of crisis, extremely well and not dealing with itself at all. We must say there are praises coming from many sides. Right now. Also on the part of the economists and also those who need help. The ministry, which is here today, is also commended, because despite the recession, there are many, many problems, I am sure that there is no need for anyone to be hungry in our country. There's a lot of these transfers. It's not just the one we're talking about today. But when we add them up, as Mr. Minister has said, there are €800 million. The local communities, at least for their own sakes, are very involved in providing assistance to their citizens and citizens, and, finally, from the municipal budget, we also devote a lot of resources to alleviating problems. For those who are poor today because he has lost his job, many are very honest people who want to work, to have a job, even though they receive a modest salary, but do not want to be unemployed, without work, on the back of the country. Of course, such ones need to be helped. Transfers are also in other areas. If I mention the area of education. The new school year begins in the fall. This contribution from the State, free textbooks, loans and the like. All of this is what is probably and I'm sure it makes our country one of the most social, and of course I'm proud of it. I will be even more proud when this fall in the number of unemployed, this percentage starts to fall, and then this will really be even more satisfying. Today there was a lot of talk about bankruptcy managers, about tycoons and so on. This "shagger" season will repeat itself for four years. The tycoons were born in another period, not during this government and so on. But I must say that the Mura will also be the magic word that will be spoken unjustly and very negligently. Let's not make a fool out of those 3,000 and some of the workers and workers of this factory. The government is preparing measures. However, it must be made clear that I also listened to the mayor yesterday after reports that the state is the majority owner, the majority owners are small shareholders and this is Mure's problem. That the other owners were out of line because the government once said no. If we had restructured every year in the last four years, I don't know, 100, 200, 500 workers and workers, looking for other jobs, that would be possible. Thinking about just how they're gonna sew uniforms and stuff, and they're gonna survive, we all know that it takes public orders and stuff. So over the thumb to assess problems not to try to find, to find solutions, even for Mura, is, I think, a very irresponsible action. Together, of course, we will be able to survive the workers and workers in Mura, some of them staying in Mura, some of them get other jobs, but of course this will be much more difficult in this environment than possible in any other environment in Slovenia. I am confident that this bill will, of course, be adopted by the amendment proposed by the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS Group, and that we will cease to be with the proposals, looking only for the "account" how the population will like us. Normally, if I promised 1,000 euros to someone today, he would be very pleased. But if that's not real, then I'm making out with that crazy person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. At the outset, I should like to stress that I, myself, appreciate the Minister's efforts in this area to ensure social sustainability. I must say that all these measures, which the Ministry brings as alternative solutions, we know that in many cases intervention measures will, of course, alleviate this crisis. This measure, which weighs 15 million euros, will, of course, alleviate this crisis. But it is so much more meaningful to talk about this, because we know that it will not be sufficient and the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats is meaningful and would, I said this earlier in the debate, it would be reasonable to think that this action would be repeated, of course, if I could say so, because this is meant for the most socially threatened layers in the Republic of Slovenia. The word was running, this government is doing better, it used to do even better. I would like to highlight a few things which I think are essential and also the Slovenian National Party has repeatedly pointed out. The system of payment non-discipline in the country produces new poverty in the economic sense and new unemployed. They are good companies that have production programs that work, deliver final products and pay, of course, as soon as they do, a tax on that, but they do not get the final bill paid, and that country is not interested. And to make the picture even clearer, the country is the worst mercenary here. My colleague just got a call from someone in his area, and he painted this picture for him. It doesn't help if he has bills, he has to pay taxes on these accounts, and he has a job, and this company has a job. It is likely that the company will have to close because the state has no interest in whether or not the payment discipline is right. So, the country picks up that 20% of the bill and then, "go get the salt, we got ours." But, look, we're collecting for everything that the minister brings here as a package of solutions, we're collecting this money from the tax field. And no one is willing to sow this tax field, no one is willing to sow it. The government does not take into account its own decisions on reducing employment. The last time we saw a beautiful example, when an aether session escaped, we were able to listen to an argument: "Irma, Irma, please, no, Irma..." Finally, the session was suspended. Is that how the Prime Minister was supposed to act? Excuse me! In such a particularly difficult situation, when ministers do not respect the conclusions adopted in the Government, they should cut the issue short. This was the area of the Ministry of the Interior because it did not respect the decision to reduce the number of employees. This also threatens financial sustainability. Yes, you will say the amendment makes sense, but it is the financial sustainability that cannot support this amendment. Of course, I do not agree with this because we have done nothing to ensure that this tax field, as it were said, is sown and sown. The Minister states, if I understand you correctly, EUR 800 million for social transfers in total. How much of this do we devote to new jobs? For a new added value? Do you know how many employees we could have in productive jobs, highly educated, doctors, masters and so on? These people will land at the institution; they may be there for five years waiting for their first job. After five years, believe me, they won't be able to give what they can today. And these people could have enriched this tax field that I'm talking about right now. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow would have a very big effect. But we are now funding only social transfers, which are the expression of the financing of the crime. I am not misunderstood, I am in favour of this proposal, and other proposals are good, but they should be the last in line. First of all, it should be an incentive to create new jobs, new added value and the country should immediately take care of financial discipline. Now! Those who work honestly must also get paid their product of work. Not that the state just picks up what's hers, but the other country doesn't care. By looking so stepmotherly at the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, we produce new disabled people in the economy. And this is reflected in the hundreds who join the unemployed daily at the employment agency. This is how we behave in these times of crisis. It's extremely irresponsible. The government doesn't want to find its own reserves. We've raised the judges' salaries. Every minister who came to a new job brought his new team, no one took her. We have a number of unnecessary workers at the Ministry of the Interior and also in other government departments. But nobody wants to talk about it. The government's decision is already taken, and then it does not realize it, and it does not want to realize its own decision. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you'll be talking about missing money. I'll say one more thing: the budget will, of course, be a rough field, which will be more like a disaster than some hope that it will be better. We can't take advantage of the European funds they grant us either. We must return them because state officials have forgotten their own participation in the budget. I'm talking about Slovenian Railways. Five million euros will go back to Brussels, because for years and years, we have pointed out that we in the Slovenian National Party have warned about this, and this money will go back to where it came from, because we did not guarantee our own participation in the budget. For the vinite system, it'll probably be the same. We're going to encourage the vines, I don't mind if we put in 10 euros a week or 5 euros a week. But why annoy the guilt essentially at the expense of citizens and citizens, and we don't even have a guarantee that we'll get that blocked money? The encouragement will remain on our shoulders and again, here we are being stepmotherly again, at the end of the day another minister will come, perhaps not the one who is here today, and will say, you know, Mr. Vlačič, he will say, "Yes, I have no money for this highway, but we need a budget rebalance because we have not returned from Brussels what we expected they will." And once again, we're going to put that bad job on the backs of taxpayers. That's what we do. It's the same in every department. No one is responsible for reckless investments and no one is responsible for making mistakes that result in millions of losses in the budget. Today we are talking about social transfers. The Act on a Special Supplement for Socially Introduced is to put out the fire. I will say again, it would make sense for us to accept this amendment and to look at these reserves that I have mentioned, and you will quickly find maybe three more times after 15 million euros. And then you will really help someone who doesn't have a pound of bread and a liter of milk today. These structures are designed for this law. Of course, I welcome him and the amendment should also be adopted in the form proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 4 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. We then turn to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Who wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday 15 July in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on the partial subvention of full-time working hours. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! As we know, the result of the crisis is also reflected in the labour market, and despite the signs that unemployment is dying, unemployment is still on the rise. At the beginning of the year, the government adopted several measures to mitigate the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. And one of them was the full-time subsidy law adopted by this National Assembly in January. The law has proved to be appropriate, as more than 700 companies have submitted their application at the Employment Institute of Slovenia to date. The total value of EUR 26 and a half million has already been 610 contracts. However, 51.212 employees under these contracts are involved in the implementation of the measure. We estimate that we have already maintained 8 000 jobs through the partial subsidisation measure of shorter working hours. In a new measure to subsidise waiting for work, almost 10 000 employees have been declared in the first weeks following the entry into force of this Act, which together would mean that unemployment could pass the number of 100,000 without these measures. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes an extension of the period within which employers may apply for a short-term subsidy and also provide for the possibility of extending the duration of the subsidy to employers already involved in this measure. We therefore extend the validity of the law for six months and thus extend the period of receipt of subsidies for employers who have already concluded a contract with the Employment Service. The last day for submitting a proposal to extend the already concluded contract is 31 March 2010. The implementation of the law will therefore be completed by 30. 9. 2010 However, payments will be made by the end of December of the following year. In doing so, let us stress that the objectives, principles and main solutions of the Law on partial full-time subsidisation adopted in January remain the same and are aimed at mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis by providing assistance to employers and workers in cases of short-term decisions. The practice has shown that the current way of implementing the law is good, the procedures are simple, non-bureaucratic, the decision-making takes place without complications, and the companies applying for the subsidy are rapidly receiving financial assistance. The implementation of the law is monitored at several levels, in particular through the Labour and Employment Inspectorate. The supervision so far, accidental, systemic and on the basis of reports, has not shown any irregularities in the implementation of this law. Therefore, I believe that the proposal for a law is one of the good options that businesses have to mitigate the consequences of the global and financial crisis and will be able to combine it further with other intervention measures and thus overcome the crisis that we are counting on not to last longer than those laws in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u154	Again, good-bye. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 9th emergency meeting, on 1. Seven. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 28th meeting, on 22. 6. 2009 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis and the Committee therefore considered the draft law on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetnik and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed by the Legislative and Legal Service of 23. 6. 2009 which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. She had no comments on him, only announced editorial corrections to the text. The representative of the proposer briefly presented the individual articles of the bill. The short discussion focused on how it is possible for the Ministry to reduce the figure under this law, estimated at EUR 230 million, to EUR 177 million within four months. The Minister explained that in times of crisis it is very difficult to estimate the exact amount of resources needed to address such problems and that they cannot provide an accurate assessment, and therefore the level of resources was somewhat overestimated. While all the debaters supported the bill in principle, they also announced the support of the parliamentary groups. No amendments have been tabled to the bill, the Committee has adopted all the articles and is proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you. Good-bye, everyone. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. The law introduces or extends by law a period within which interested employers may apply for a subsidy of 30. 9. 2009 at 31. 3. 2010 This, despite the Minister's announcement that the crisis is ending or that it is approaching its end, obviously only means that it will take some time and that it is not enough just to wait for the mine issue to happen, but something has to be done. At the same time, the novelty allows employers who are already recipients of the subsidy to extend the period of its receipt. Most often, the government cites this measure, i.e. subsidised full-time, as its main measure, some other countries have taken the same, but only as one of the measures, not the one that would be most important for the actual increase in employment and job conservation. That is why we also rightly ask ourselves how it is possible to plan the necessary funds rather poorly, so that we had €230 million at the beginning, then it fell from the first balance to €123 million, and with the second rebalancing we will even come to the number of €53 million to be used for this purpose by the end of the year. Little wonder, then, that the marriage was filed 17. 6. and in the assessment of the financial implications, the Ministry still lists the EUR 123 million needed in Balance 1 and, of course, we know that in two days we will be dealing with a rebalance 2 where these funds are more than halved. This may include information on the financial implications. We cannot avoid the impression that there is bad planning on this segment, but every job that is kept is very important, so we will support the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. The Act on partial subsidisation in addition to working time was adopted at the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly as one of the intervention laws urgently needed in these acute financial and economic conditions. At the time of its adoption, it was said that the Government would monitor its effects, its functioning and that, in line with the course of the crisis, it might propose to extend it. And here we are now because, unfortunately, optimistic predictions have not been fulfilled, so there is a novel before us that prolongs its validity. As stated at the time of the presentation of this law on the Committee, 551 contracts were concluded at the time with employers with almost 50,000 workers, and some 200 contracts for the additional 15,000 workers working in these companies are still being processed. In the presentation of the bill, the Minister also provided some more recent information. However, there are two important reasons, according to the applicant, for the extension of this law. The first is that employers themselves express through their associations a desire to extend this measure, as they themselves are most likely to know the state of their business and will continue for about one year. The second reason, however, was clearly that the law was well-targeted because it had achieved its purpose, as indicated by the figures on the contracts concluded. The law therefore extends the deadline for granting applications to subsidise short working hours by the end of March next year, allowing companies already taking advantage of this possibility to extend them. I must say that in the Group of Members we are also really pleased with the data on control, because the concerns about abuse were great. I hope, of course, that this monitoring has been carried out thoroughly and that the funds are indeed being used for the purpose envisaged. Because we are convinced that it is the preservation of jobs, as well as the mitigation of the crisis in other areas, in cooperation with trade unions and employers - that these are the content that Members and Members need to support and create the conditions for more effective cooperation in the field of social dialogue, which we hope will allow economic growth again in the short term and not least the implementation of all the reforms that await us in the future. So the times are such that the marriage has to be extended, and the law is obviously good. I hope it won't take longer, the way it is, of course, to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u160	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with Fellows, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Group of Members will support the law before us by extending the deadline within which companies can again apply for subsidies. This law was well conceived, has a positive effect, has been useful. It is true that we have spent less resources for this purpose than we originally pointed out, but this is for our own good. This means that fewer jobs are at risk than expected, although there are too many. We believe that the law is also conceived in the direction that was foretold. By the time the law was adopted, warnings were given to allow time to be extended. But in any case, it is good that it has also been expected to see the financial consequences that have been substantially lower than those foreseen, and now the law has been more precisely defined to what kind of money will be needed to continue implementing this law. Other funds, however, can focus on an area where money was scarce. Thus, there is no problem in our parliamentary group to support this law and has our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will postpone the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation is a truly meaningful measure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, as such, welcome. The flexibility of the Minister of Corrections in this law is also a positive thing to be commended. We have already amended this law several times and it is right to extend this period from 30.9.2009 to 31.3.2010, because, as already said by the predecessors, the demand for such assistance in the Republic of Slovenia is considerable. The measure will also be able to deliver 100,000 jobs in the final stage. Companies will end this crisis period, expect a better period in good condition. And I believe that it is really necessary to think about whether, if the crisis does not end, this measure will continue. It is true, however, that this raises concerns, for although the Minister has argued otherwise, this control of the subsidies granted or the aid granted by the State does not take place strictly enough and some abuses are also taking place. I am personally aware that some companies are abusing this thing, so it would be appropriate to check in this area to see whether this is exactly what the Minister claims. I'd be happy to, of course, if that were the case. Companies receiving these funds should also be more actively involved in candidates for grants in the development and innovation field. We miss this because it is this measure that is intended for those companies that want to expand production, to create new products, so it would be right to give businesses the opportunity to compete with development programmes at the same time as retaining the number of employees in this social measure, because we know that if we do not develop new programmes in the production system, we can quickly become uncompetitive. There is nothing to help us maintain a technology that will be obsolete in one year or two or production programmes that will not compete on the market tomorrow when the crisis is over. It is therefore possible for the Minister to advise: it would also be useful for us to impose upon these companies the obligation to prepare development programmes and to subsidise these development programmes, if they are good, through this measure in some way. As far as the fact that companies can now, after amending this law in some way, if they have a structural division of labour can be done where there is a positive and, of course, work in some manufacturing area, they can also do a certain number of overtimees, it is good, because the first novelty of the law has been very much in this area and we are for the company that decided on this measure, which prohibited essentially overtime. It can happen that, while where there is a structural division of work, I stress that the company has an order, it also has a prepayment, in fact, but, if it decides to do so, it cannot carry out such an order. Thus, the amendments made on this bill were in some sense and necessary, and this time we welcome the extension of this deadline, and in the Slovenian National Party we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u164	Respectable present. The Slovenian People's Party's delegation will support the amendment of the law and the extension of the period within which the employers concerned may apply for a subsidy while at the same time allowing employers who are already recipients of the subsidy to extend the period of receipt. We supported the intervention laws in the hope that the crisis will soon be over and that as few companies as possible will be forced to use this assistance. We are of the opinion that, through economic measures, we must strive primarily to ensure employment and to maintain jobs, including through additional financial incentives to reduce working time. It is therefore unacceptable for us that the Government has decided to practically shut down so large and important a company for all of Slovenia and especially vital importance for Prekmurje, the Mura factory. With the bankruptcy of the company, thousands of families will lose their jobs and livelihoods. We will support the law, although we have already pointed out too much planned resources when adopting the law, because a simple calculation has shown that funds are too highly planned for a six-year period. With the new rebalancing, the government has confirmed this view because the funds are reduced by almost half the amount. I wonder: Why did the government not use these funds to help Mura? We will support the law, even though we are aware that only through intervention laws will we not save the Slovenian economy. We reiterate that social policy cannot replace economic policy and, in particular, not necessarily invest in the technological development of our economy, which would improve its competitiveness on the global market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say hello again to the Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. We will support the proposed law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Of course, it is necessary to note that the economic crisis is prolonging, in some areas it is also deepening, and it is therefore necessary to support those projects that maintain jobs that preserve the condition of education and training for those who are still active today and with the new economic start expected, of course, that we are prepared to be competitive with the economy in the new situation. Of course, the law extending the deadline for the investment of the employers concerned in granting the subsidy and the law extending the period of receipt of this subsidy is an important law for us, including in this respect, because it is well-adopted by employers themselves. And the figures discussed today by the minister are around 700 companies, for more than 50,000 employees within these companies and for the preservation of thousands of jobs, speak for themselves that the justification for the extension of these deadlines is reasonable. It is also pleased that the implementation of this law is under control, and is pleased to hear what Mr Minister has told us today, that there are no irregularities detected, because supervision is precisely the point that we have been alerting the LDS to at the time of the adoption of this law. And, Minister, we wish and hope that in your services responsible for supervision, you will succeed in doing so, so that the distortion of this law will be minimal or that there will be no distortion in the future and that the law will achieve the purpose of this law. This, however, is to keep the economy in the best possible condition, with all the employees and in a way that, when the opportunity is to restore economic intensity, this economy will be prepared with all the staff to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u168	Nice greeting to all in attendance! The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. In view of the deepening of the economic crisis and the consequent further deterioration of the situation of economic operators, it was necessary to extend the period within which the employers concerned could apply for a subsidy. The last day, as we have heard, is 31.3.2010. With the possibility of extending the subsidy by any means, first of all up to 6 months and with the possibility of a further 6-month period, an attempt is made to ensure as high a level of flexibility as possible in the implementation of the rules in practice. The proposal to extend the subsidy does not constitute a new application, so it is not bureaucraticly demanding, which is also very positive. At the same time, I'd like to say something about the amendment. The Social Democrats' Group as co-signature of the amendment also supports the amendment to Article 2 of the Act, as many employers of the partial subsidy agreement expire on 31 July and cannot in time - we know what date is today - to meet the conditions, i.e. the 15-day deadline before the expiry. The amendment will allow employers to propose an extension even on the day of expiry, that is, on 31 July. This is an additional reason for immediate confirmation of the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have received an amendment to the transitional and final provisions of the bill. Since the time for discussion has not been set in advance, I would like to inform you that every Member has 5 minutes at his disposal. A government representative is also available at the same time. So five minutes to discuss the amendment proposal. I'm opening the application. Anyone who wants to discuss this amendment should apply. There's no sign-in. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I would just like to comment on or respond to a few critical opinions in the presentations. Firstly, as regards the level of the planned funds. Gentlemen, if we were planning a crisis, then there would be no crisis, because no one would probably have planned it in advance. The depth of this crisis, which we are in, has been at all, and is still quite unpredictable. However, there were many indictees at the beginning of the discussions on how the government reacts and how it should respond to this crisis. The fact that the crisis is very deep, long-lasting and, of course, employers themselves have been predicting in fact the extremely poor situation in which companies went to at the end of last year. That is why the government's response was also to adapt the way this situation was handled: firstly, so that it would be quick, and secondly that it would be sufficient, and thirdly that it would be flexible in view of developments. And we've shown the speed by showing that the law was actually very quick and it's been in use for quite some time now. We have defined sufficient resources and flexibility by monitoring this law, its implementation, which, in combination with adequacy and speed, of course allows us to come with another law that complements the first, this is subsidising waiting for work. And I think that such a response from the Government to the crisis situation was also appropriate, and as we can follow the action elsewhere, in other governments, we do not in principle deviate from this pattern in this case. As far as the issue of abuse is concerned. I mentioned earlier that there is multiple controls. The implementation of this law is carried out by an inspection for work and also by the institution itself, responding to every application we receive. If there are applications, then it is the duty of these services to also look at those companies where the infringements may occur in order to verify that they are infringements. And if they are, they shall take appropriate action. In the last review of work systematically in randomly selected companies is the Employment Office - and in some there is, I have to complement myself here, according to the latest information we have just received - found some irregularities. But these irregularities are such that the contract concluded is no longer valid or sanctioned. If forgiveness has occurred, as they have found in several cases, or something similar which the law prohibits, the contract shall be terminated with that undertaking and that undertaking shall be bound to repay the funds. As this control, as it is said, runs and I think that the implementation of the law is also under control in this respect. Since the issue of Mura, which is not the subject of this or the previous law, has also been mentioned, I have to say that the Government has decided to close this company, as has been said. The government, as a minority owner, as a relatively small co-owner, cannot even make its own decisions and has no intention of suggesting this to others. However, the Government is actively preparing and cooperating with others in the preparation of a restructuring programme for this firm, which is to terminate the practice of permanent aid, without changing the programmes in the company and without really making it economically independent. The Government is actively involved in this. One move is to link all available actions of our ministry and other ministries [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ‘in order to help this company properly from the crisis. [[...]] Of course, the gold one wants to protect all the employees. Not so many owners who have been irresponsible in the past, but employees who need to be given as many jobs as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The amendment decision will be held on Wednesday, 15 July in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. at 1 p.m. with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u172	We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. A warm welcome to the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, ministers and ministers who will answer our parliamentary questions. With regard to this item on the agenda, we received written applications of 32 questions sent to us within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is asked by several ministers, they have five minutes for a common answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members, I ask that you pay attention to this business provision and at least do not say in the announcement that you will ask an additional question, because then I must warn you. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister, without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. We therefore turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Let me inform you that you apologized for this item in the agenda, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs. On the bench, you received a review of questions sent and initiatives not answered within the deadline. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first three questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The first question will be asked by Mr Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! The Honourable President of the Government. The fact is that the Government is poorly meeting the objectives and expectations of the coalition agreement, not putting at the forefront those who are addressing the crisis, but those which are primarily revolutionary, such as deleted, same-sex, financial position of judges and lawyers, etc. However, economic and financial measures are very late, making Slovenia very unsuccessful in facing the challenges of the crisis, which has affected us more than some members of the European Union in the Eastern bloc. An additional problem is a poorly managed human resources policy. Only a few months have passed since the appointment of Dr. Veselinović at the head of Nova Ljubljanska banka and Dr. Tasič to the top of the Slovenian Railways, and they are both without directors: one has resigned, the other has been relieved. This is certainly not good for society and not for the country. The procedure of both appointments was carried out differently from your predictions. Coalition partners expressed public dissatisfaction with both, and apparently the predatory pressures within the coalition were too severe to withstand. It is clear from the statement that the Government does not have a manufactured concept, not for the New Ljubljana Bank and not for the Slovenian Railways. We also understand from your ministers' statements and actions that the picture is quite similar in other areas. We are witnessing strange moves and statements, public debates by ministers, indignation and poor explanations, and citizens are increasingly confused. Let us only remember the statements of the Ministers of Gaspari, Križanič, Erjavac, Vlačič, Golobič on the level of pensions, on wine policy, on the extension of working age, on taxation of single persons, on the modernisation of systems, etc. It is clear that no government that does not operate systematically and in sync can be effective. I ask you: What will you, as Prime Minister of the Government, do to ensure that the Government acts in a targeted, homogeneous and effective manner? Citizens expect that we will also reduce the backlog for the most developed European countries in this mandate. How will you get the personnel of the most important institutions that will be acceptable to the coalition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u175	Your Honor! Let there be no doubt: reducing the development backlog for the most developed European and world countries is both yours and our goal, is our common goal and the government is trying to follow it as best as possible. It is contained in all strategic documents and we also implement it. In the previous period, the statistically measured development backlog mentioned in your question has decreased with high levels of economic growth in Slovenia. It is also true that, due to relatively higher inflation in the period 2006-2007 in Slovenia, this reduction was slightly lower than it would have been, as is true, that the average GDP per capita of the EU population used in measuring this development deficit in 2005 decreased due to the entry of ten new Member States. In 2007, the average level of EU development fell further at the time of Bulgaria and Romania's entry. I have said many times that we are witnessing a very severe economic downturn in the context of the global economic crisis. You are right to say that Slovenia is among the countries most affected here, and we must also say why. It is the fact that the under-adapted has seen this crisis, and that is why the shock of this crisis has been so much worse for our economy and, consequently, for the social situation. That is why we have also decided to act as a government, and here as a government we act homogeneously, we have embarked on the path of very difficult, difficult but inevitable structural reforms. The economic crisis has revealed the weaknesses of this unadaptableness so that these changes will not work. I have already said at the last, second conference of the development dialogue, in which direction the Government is thinking when it comes to necessary structural reforms: it is about increasing the competitive capacity of the economy, it is about social security, it is about providing public services, it is about public finances. We will try to build all of this together with the social partners, civil society and the general public, so that, as far as possible, in the coming autumn, perhaps early next year, these proposals are known and could become subject to public discussion. As another extremely important approach by the Government to more efficient work and, in particular, to long-term sustainability and greater implementation of development policies, Commissioner, the Government is already actively preparing a new programme budget for 2010 and 2011. This will, if we succeed, otherwise prepare the budget as it has been so far. It is our wish to show a clear and transparent link between budgetary resources and development policies. This budget will aim at improving the quality of providing public services for greater focus on the needs of the user, reducing the costs of public services supply, increasing the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources, strengthening public accountability and consequently increasing public sector performance. All these guidelines followed by the Government at this time of crisis, while - and the National Assembly was aware of this - took a number of practical measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, to solve a problem more successfully than we initially thought we would, and some less than we wanted. No one has yet given a recipe for crisis resolution, and our government does not have it, but the anti-crisis group of ministers and government as a whole is trying to mitigate this crisis by taking measures and trying to free the fall of GDP in the first quarter now with economic and other policies to stabilise it so that, with the rebalancing of the budget now to be addressed, this week, with a new budget and other strategic measures slowly, but certainly also towards final stabilisation and then a development facility upwards.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko wants to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I would hardly agree that the Czech Republic or Poland were more structurally adapted to the economic crisis situation than Slovenia. I think that the efficiency of the government is being created mainly by the affairs in which the ministers of this government are directly or indirectly involved. Thus, for example, Minister Golobič, who has denied to the public that the company’s value of the deposit has been unrealisticly demonstrated to the company, has not informed the Commission of the ownership of other companies. It also has a share of these companies established abroad, in tax havens with hidden property, which means that they do not pay taxes to that country, even though as a minister they receive public wages. The affair in the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia also pointed to clienteleistic and family ties between Minister Kresalovo, director or president of the Chamber of Physiotherapists and Senica Lawyer's Office. Minister Križanič, for example, hired a known member of the secret service as his financial advisor. Honourable President of the Government: Do you think that persons suspected or highly likely to be involved in acts that have the character of clientelistic, corrupt and illegal conduct deserve the highest position in the executive branch, for example, as a minister or as a confidential adviser to ministers? Can such ministers be expected to carry out programmes and actions in the public interest, or will they take priority over their personal interests? Can the government with such people act homogeneously, unitedly and effectively?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u179	If, as Prime Minister of the Government, I should say, Commissioner, that the Government does not act homogeneously and effectively enough, I would suggest its reconstruction at this moment or ask the National Assembly to trust this government. I believe that each of the ministers and ministers is doing their job - not without mistakes and not without failings. In the public, these errors and errors, the affairs, are also criticised, critically valued. This certainly affects confidence in the government. I am the one who is most responsible for assessing whether the Government can do its job in such situations, and I estimate that Slovenia needs a government that will fully address the issues you are mentioning. It is also fully devoted to this. If and to the extent that things are occurring that are needed to deal with the competent authorities, this will also happen. Ministers and ministers are sovereign figures, first of all they know how to judge whether they can do this work, and finally I am responsible to draw the line. He is satisfied with the ministerial assembly, not working without mistakes or failings. For all of this, it is not always an excuse for the crisis, but we are working through this extremely difficult time to lead a policy so that, as far as possible, we can meet people's expectations. These are tall, and I understand that there are disappointments here. However, it is also necessary to be persistent here, to resolve the problems that you are mentioning, and to focus on the work that this National Assembly has entrusted us with this great responsibility at this time. There are also problems when it comes to human resources policy - we are introducing a new model. Here, too, not without mistakes and slips, but with added values from what we've taken. We all want the best people to come to the best jobs. We're trying to introduce new institutions here, a new set to prevent what you call a low mentality. All of this seems to me to be happier than it may ever be in the public eye, but in the end, he is a judge of the public and as far as the government is concerned, including this high house.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I must say that with the answers of the President of the Government, I am not satisfied because the important points in my questions have been omitted. There was no answer for them. Thus, not in the field of human resources policy, such as the situation in Slovenian railways, the New Ljubljana Bank, and policy planning. I think we deserve a fair debate in the National Assembly on whether a government that does not act in a uniform manner can act homogeneously, effectively, towards the objectives of ministers suspected of tycoon and clientistic activities. We also need answers to how the Government will define itself to the suspicions of these actions or to these perceived actions of ministers; whether it is behind them and whether it is consistent in its conduct or if it advocates the situation that everyone is equal before the law to demand equal responsibility from all. I also think that there is a need to open a debate on whether there are any other, higher reasons why, despite the suspicions of obvious and even deep involvement in the affairs, some remain ministers. Also on how the Government will, for example, act against those who are in this mandate by causing health, with political pressure, by setting up, suspending and withdrawing political personnel, leaving the largest Slovenian companies, such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Slovenian Railways, Luka Koper and some others without competent personnel. Such a debate is expected and justified in the National Assembly. Members are obliged to receive answers to these questions, because it is not possible for the public to be fooled by the reason that the former Prime Minister has been questioned because, for example, he would have issued a state secret or better said, some nonsense by Minister Katarina Kresal or by dragging former ministers to court. I hope that you Members will support the proposal to discuss the Government's response to my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Your proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday evening, in the framework of the votes. The second is Mr Bogdan Barovic on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u183	All due respect! According to the latest data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, at the beginning of this year there are 2 million and 30 000 inhabitants and residents in Slovenia. Among the population groups, the group of foreign nationals has increased by 19018. Total number of employees, I speak foreign employees in the Republic of Slovenia exceeds the number - 100 thousand! A hundred thousand foreign employees. According to the latest data of the Employment Institute, at the end of June there were 86 000 Slovenian and Slovenian unemployed jobseekers. Eighty-six thousand! About half of the foreigners, who are supposed to be working in the Republic of Slovenia, have separate companies. That's about 50 grand! The activities of these companies are largely - and this is now the core - of hiring workers. 50,000 foreigners, entrepreneurs, illiterates - that's not an insult, that's a fact - who rent workers. As far as I and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party are aware, Mr Prime Minister, the activity of hiring workers is not defined in any law. Therefore, I ask you very specifically and clearly: Do the owners of these fast-established and largely without the special property of enterprises have obtained any concession permits for the hire of labour? Second question. I wonder: Under what law does the Republic of Slovenia grant them such permits and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u185	Your Honor! Initially, according to the Slovenian Employment Institute, which collects data on the type of work permits granted, at the end of last year in Slovenia 1,223 self-employed foreigners with a work permit were for one or three years. The conditions for setting up an economic company or independent entrepreneur are laid down in the Act on Economic Companies. At the end of December last year, 4,119 licences were valid in Slovenia for representatives of companies or independent entrepreneurs. On 11 June this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a significant increase in the establishment of companies with limited liability and a warning by the Member States of the European Union of the misuse of work permits issued in Slovenia, has already adopted a Regulation on the restrictions and prohibition on the employment and work of foreigners, which, inter alia, prohibited the granting of permits for representatives coming from the territory of Kosovo who then used the residence permits in Slovenia to go to other countries within the Schengen area. The activity of providing work to another employer or the so-called loan of workers, which you raise in your question, shall be determined primarily by the Employment and Insurance Act for the case of unemployment and the Regulation under the conditions for carrying out the activities of employment agencies. In accordance with the rules in force, the employer may provide the work of the worker, the other employer, if he fulfils the staffing, organisational and other conditions and is entered in the labour security register. The Agency's Register is published on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This register is constantly updated. Problems and infringements relating to this activity shall be brought to the attention of the competent ministries and other authorities and shall be dealt with. It is the conclusion of virtual contracts between the two parties where the first undertakes to carry out a certain business with its employees for the second, which is then not clearly defined. In many cases, it is so that the deal is not actually taken over, but, as I said, it is about the so-called loan of workers. The inspection must thus determine whether it is a real business contract or, as it is said, a loan of workers. The Slovenian Labour Inspectorate has, for many years now, given particular attention to the area under consideration, in carrying out controls, in fact, also identifies the fact that or companies conclude cooperation contracts with each other, even when they lend workers and should be entered into a labour register. In 2008, a total of 229 infringements of the Employment and Work Act, 109 infringements of the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment were thus found, of which 56 were in relation to the performance of the work of workers, to the other user without registration in the relevant register. Even as a result of the solution to the above-mentioned problem, honourable Member, a new employment law is now being drawn up, which will regulate the area of job provision in more detail and make it more transparent that such anomalies will no longer occur in the future. To this end, two special groups have been established at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and this new law can soon be expected on the parliamentary benches.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government. I believe that you believe and you must believe in the content that you have, because of course you cannot and cannot physically do everything, prepare it; that is, in the data they give you. I will not argue with you or the ministers how real these companies, which are "like businesses", are in fact engaged only and only in the hiring of workers. We have institutions to check for that. I would like to draw your attention to just one article of the Labour Relations Act, which says: The work permit is normally issued as an employer - I speak to a foreigner. However, the basic condition for authorisation is the current situation in the labour market or the lack of adequate domestic candidates. This is where I end up. "Failure of adequate domestic candidates." With what is happening in Slovenia, data is also available if only 17 foreigners are employed, at least ironic or satirical. At least ironic or satirical! The fact is, the information I gave you is being held. The fact is, Prime Minister, that the relevant competent services do not carry out their work and, therefore, once again - one more answer I ask: Who follows, who gives concessions and permits? I know he's giving them, you mentioned. Employment Service. But who gives concessions to these companies to do A and they do B? Who's controlling this concession? I can prove to you physically, at least 10 of these, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] who don't do it the way they should. [[...]] That's all I'm asking, and I'm not going to ask, I'm not going to talk anymore, I'm not going to ask for an extended debate. However, I expect increased activity against such activities when they have 100,000 domestics on the road.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u189	Your Honor. In my reply, I have explained very fully what it is like to solve this problem. I have explained that for many years now, in particular, the competent services have identified and sanctioned anomalies. We find that this is not enough and a new law needs to be drawn up. This marriage is in preparation and, as it is said, will soon be on the sentries. Thus, we will also draw lessons from the available practice, which, as we say, as you and I are assessing, is not good, and we will draw lessons for better solutions as have been regulated by law so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you very much. He will ask the President of the Government, thirdly, the question of the Magi. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The government has adopted and introduced into the legislative procedure the 2009 budget rebalancing. The projected revenue is falling by €860 million, the projected expenditure is 157 million, and the deficit is consequently rising by €700 million. Of course, you call this the developmental orientation of the budget, as investments financed from public funds are expected to significantly promote or preserve individual parts of the economy. At this point, I would ask myself whether we have already crossed a dangerous threshold when the impact of the increase in public finances is relatively small and becomes the only effect of these higher expenditure increases in the public financial deficit and thus debt. Umar also draws attention to this sensitive border. Such a developmental attitude would also be appreciated and supported by us if the government failed to maintain or increase the level of investment at the expense of debt or greater public debt. The explanation of the rebalancing also contains a part that discusses the reduction of budgetary expenditure at the expense of austerity measures. We estimate that much more could be done in this area. We know how to spend, and it takes a strong hand and family head to save, which in this case should be united in the person of the Prime Minister of the Government. In both of the two budget rebalancings, total expenditure on goods and services is reduced by 8.37%, which, according to our assessment, is significantly underestimated, even when you acknowledge for yourself that the whole Government has been able to reduce expenditure on goods and services of EUR 17 million, and not EUR 55 million, if we deduct the reduction in the item for the purchase of military equipment. However, in the previous rebalancing, expenditure is expected to decrease by EUR 25 million, but if we subtract the reduction in the purchase of military equipment, this expenditure on goods and services has actually increased by a good EUR 30 million. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: When will you take the cost of public administration seriously? And at the end: How do you comment on the sentence written in the material for the second development conference? I quote: "Public financial spending will be optimized by increasing the overall fiscal discipline, by increasing the allocation and technological efficiency." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u192	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u193	Your Honor! First of all, allow me to emphasise that the proposal for a rebalancing which will be addressed by the National Assembly at the end of this week is a good one. I think he's great. But I wouldn't join those who think he's bad. We had to prepare the balance because macroeconomic movements are different from those to which the budget was planned because the government has actively responded to the financial and economic crisis through measures. In your opening remarks, you rightly concluded that the budget's revenues are falling by EUR 860 million. This is due to a smaller economic activity of the key objectives of the Slovenian economy's export markets and a substantial reduction in tax revenues, which are almost 1 billion below last year's level. Due to the reduction of tax burdens in 2007-2008 and further changes to the direct decision in last year. Now, on the surface, the government could also reduce expenditure in line with the reduction in revenue. But here it must be made clear that this is not possible if we want to respect the laws and people who were, of course, committed to these legal rights. The government has thus decided to provide an additional EUR 125 million for pension liabilities for the smooth payment of all pensioners' rights, despite the crisis. And he can't do it any different than he can do it that way. Despite this and similar commitments, we have managed to reduce budget expenditure by 157 million euros. The expenditure side was also strongly pressured by the commitments already made regarding the purchase of military equipment, police equipment, which we have also limited to the greatest extent possible, but, of course, had a significant impact on the overall reduction in the cost of the goods and services specifically mentioned. Taking into account the necessary increase in these funds due to the implementation of European funding projects, this means that expenditure on goods and services, compared to last year, has been reduced by almost a tenth, honourable Member. By lowering the costs of public administration, we have been very serious since the beginning of February this year, when they were adopted first and then in April, the starting point for other austerity measures. These are measures in the areas of employment, wages, rationalisation of work processes, reduction of expenditure on goods and services. It's 46 measures. The Ministry of Public Administration has prepared an accurate report on the implementation of the measures and is in government procedure. Among other things, it notes that we are implementing changes in systematisation and rationalisation to reduce costs, we are saving when hiring external operators, we have postponed all the unnecessary purchases of equipment for the state administration and we have kept only the essentials. We reduce rent costs, we consistently implement a measure to reduce investment expenditure in ministries. There is something else about the developmental orientation of the balance sheet and investment funds. The government has already dealt with the crisis on the first day, as I said, has prepared a series of measures. These measures, of course, require funds. Likewise, with the balance that will be accepted in the coming days by the National Assembly, honourable Member, we are earmarking EUR 552 million for the economy, which is twice as much as was envisaged. For science and technological development, we are earmarking an additional €106 million. We have also decided to further support education and knowledge transfer with an additional EUR 118 million. While investment expenditure is declining together, which still, honourable Member, means almost 24% more than the investment expenditure achieved last year, which the government still sees as a positive contribution to economic growth. In doing so, they will remain in the development programme plan almost entirely for projects whose implementation is not questionable this year. These are just some of the facts that confirm that the government has succeeded despite the crisis and given the commitment that we will not postpone today's problems, if possible, to the shoulders of the next generation, to continue to draw up a budget that I myself assess as a good budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer. However, I think it would be possible to do more in the area of savings or, if we say so, in the area of reducing public spending. The public administration must, whether we like it or not, share the fate of the Slovenian economy. And that must be realized by every employee in public administration, if you want, by the Darsa administration. I cannot agree with the fact that some budgetary users continue to increase their budgetary resources at two rebalancings compared to the budget that was prepared by the previous Government. Let me mention just a few. The budget is increasing from government budget users compared to the budget prepared by the previous Government, Equal Opportunities Office, Joint Administrative Services Protocol, General Secretariat of the Government, Office of the Government for Religious Communities, Office for the Protection of Secret Data, Customs Administration, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I can continue: the State Council, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman and so on and so on. While the light point of ministries is: Ministry of Public Administration - 25% reduction. I'm comparing everything to the previous budget. Department of Defense - minus 12%. However, some ministries, which are not linked to the fight against the financial and economic crisis, are increasing the budget. I would like to point out that those budgetary users who do not have any at the moment [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Relationships with the fight against the financial and economic crisis should not, at the moment, have a higher budget than the previous government has allocated to them. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u197	Given that I will have an introduction myself, and then also a competent minister, on Thursday, to discuss and vote on Thursday and Friday on the budget balance, I propose that I give answers to a number of questions that you have today. I would like to tell you that we have been very careful in preparing the budget rebalancing, that there has been a very lively and also strong coordination, that we have been trying to set the budget lines by setting them up so that the functions we expect to be put in place are somehow reduced. It is all about rounding up, aimed at maintaining the deficit at that level that is in the coming years with the programme budget, which will be adopted in the second half of this year and will apply for 2010 and 2011, that public finances are sustainable and that debt will not go beyond those limits that we estimate to be acceptable, sustainable for Slovenia. I think that in the coming years, however, I believe, even with some indicators - both globally and domestically, that this decline in economic activity can stabilise, that we will probably witness a longer period of this stabilisation, and that we will also make this developmental upturn in the next two years through this budget rebalancing and programme budgets. But I know, and we probably all agree here that there's going to be a lot of savings to be made. This is also why the Government has taken austerity measures, most of them taken into account, some not because they have been very difficult to implement in such a short time. But let there be no doubt, the government is acting in a cost-effective manner. It understands that each item has to be checked twice, to see if it has a real basis, and so this budget balance has been prepared. I hope that he will receive support in the National Assembly so that no amendments will be voted to break his balance, so that after what we have already started, we will focus entirely on the preparation of the programme budget in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much. As none of the coalition's parliamentary groups will raise a question for the Prime Minister of the Government, we have concluded with this work. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government, for your answers. We turn to the questions raised by Members of Parliament and Members, or first to the answers to the questions put at the 6th and 7th meetings of the National Assembly, to which there were no answers due to the absence of answers. Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is expected to answer three questions from Parliament, Mr Milenk Ziherl, Mir Petk and France Kek, but I have initially said that Mr Samuel Žbogar is also absent at today's meeting, so he will answer these three questions at the next meeting. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. I wanted to make this procedural proposal at the beginning of this point, but I know that Mr Borut Pahor is in a hurry because no more questions have been asked by the coalition. That's why I'm putting it up now. It is precisely what you have just mentioned, Madam Vice President, about Minister Žbogar. I propose that today's agenda item should not be concluded and that we continue at the end of the meeting of the National Assembly. Why? I asked Minister Zbogar a question about the uncontrolled release of confidential data to the public at the 6th regular session. That was May 18th. At the time, he was absent and did not answer the question. The question was not answered at the 7th meeting of the National Assembly on 15 June. And apparently it won't even be answered today, when I ask the minister another, new question. It is said that Minister Žbogar will answer my question on 18 May this year only on 21 September this year. This is more than four months, which is, of course, unacceptable. I wouldn't have guessed or speculated here why Minister Zbogar isn't here, whether he's really detained or if there's another reason behind here. However, we have an oral question institution and this must be taken into account. That is why I repeat the procedural proposal. When the competent ministers reply to the questions raised today, the point is interrupted and continues this week with the answers of both ministers, who are missing today. Please put a procedural motion to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Friday. The questions sent are provided for in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is also envisaged what is involved in the absence of an individual minister. I do not claim that the solutions are best, but they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I agree with your warnings that Minister Žbogar was not present for several meetings, and was unable to answer. However, your proposal, because it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, cannot be put to the vote. I agree, however, that the National Assembly reminds the Government of the presence of ministers, especially those who are repeatedly absent so that they can answer the question. Please, not about that question. Because on this issue I have given you an explanation which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, we will listen to proposals over and over again that I will not be able to implement. Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Any time a Member may propose a procedural proposal. This proposal concerns that the point should not be closed and that the proposal is, as usual, a vote should be taken. However, if this proposal is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, then I ask you to quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which are contrary to its proposal. However, I think that the business proposal is completely on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much. My decision is in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing oral questions. In the event that an individual minister is not present at a meeting, the Member shall decide whether to request, at the next meeting, an oral question from the Member of Parliament or to put it at that meeting and shall expect an answer. These provisions are business and no other provision to amend this if there are two or three absences in [[..]] [[A voice from behind.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] I conclude the debate on this issue. We turn to the answers of Mr Mate Lahovnik to two questions sent by Mr Barovic and Mr Čepić. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs has just informed me that, following the mandate of Prime Minister of the Government, he has gone on short notice with the representatives of Mura. I ask whether he can answer these questions later in the course of the questions being sent, or whether the National Assembly does not allow them to do so. I propose that we move on to the questions raised by the Members, and after his return we return to questions that he has not answered in previous meetings. Do you agree with that? Thank you. Then we turn to the answers of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, to unanswered questions. First, the answer to Mr Milenk Ziherl's question regarding the implementation of full-time subsidisation. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u203	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Ziherl asked how we oversee the implementation of this law. The Law on Partial Subsidy consists of working time in Article 6 provides for the supervision of the distribution and payment of subsidies and the implementation of the concluded subsidy contract of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, however, supervises compliance with labour law. It is recalled that before the conclusion of the partial full-time subsidy contract in legal proceedings, the Office has verified whether the employer fulfils the legal conditions for granting subsidies and decides on its application by means of an administrative act which is the basis for concluding the contract with the employer. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia is up to 6. Seven. 2009 concluded 610 contracts with employers for 51 000 212 workers worth EUR 26 million 317 000 500. The statutory supervision has already begun to be carried out, with the first sampling of contracts concluded with employers in May, by taking 10% of all employers who signed contracts in all field services and by taking those for whom the funds were paid in February. For the first sampling, a list of employers was used to conclude contracts for partial full-time subsidisation on 21 April. In the first sampling, 44 employers from the publicly published list are randomly covered. At this point, it should be pointed out that the final results of the monitoring will be known after the employer’s involvement in the measure has expired, as only then will the actual number of hours worked in employers be fully checked. In the control procedure, in the case of one employer, the institution has already issued a finding and a report on the supervision carried out, in which it was found that the employer had not breached the contract. Furthermore, a decision has been issued for two employers so far to suspend the procedure, due to an early agreement on the termination of the contract at the request of the employer. The procedure of statutory supervision is thus ongoing and supervisors inform the institution of the findings from the outset. Following the review of the above sample, a new sample will also be established so that 20% of all contracts concluded will be fully reviewed. To date, the Institute has also received 3 anonymous reports of violations of contracts concluded and one report of infringements by trade unions on the basis of which it has introduced emergency control procedures. He will report this when the results are known. The monthly institution shall verify the data transmitted on the involvement of workers, whether they are still employed by the employer receiving the subsidy, and what is the basis for their insurance. And it does so by crossing the data from its own records with the records of the Institute of Health Insurance. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate carries out some inspections with the employer on the basis of the applications received. So far, however, he has found no major irregularities. Currently, one of the employers involved is in charge of the organisation unit Celje, where compliance with the ban on overtime is checked. The supervision began prior to the entry of the company, a full-time subsidisation measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Minister for Labour Ivan Svetlik will answer Mr Jakob Preseknik's question about discrimination between societies and societies. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you so much for asking. In his question, Mr President is asking about the situation of cooperatives as regards the possibility of their being involved in the measures implemented by our ministry. With a view to regulating this issue and harmonising views in this area, we met representatives of the Association of Slovenia at the Ministry. We explained to them that, in the context of the implementation of the active employment policy measures under notified cooperative finance schemes, despite their principle right to state aid, which they enjoy under the Cooperatives Act, we have excluded in accordance with the provisions of the European regulation under the de minimis scheme. These provisions of the European Union state that these types of aid, as provided for in this scheme, are not eligible for operators operating in the fisheries, aquaculture and primary production sectors of agricultural products, which represents an activity of around 30% of cooperatives in Slovenia. The issue of the exercise of controls, such as the identification of double funding for the same eligible costs and the provision of conditions arising from the requirements of European legislation for the implementation of programmes under cohesion policy, has also been highlighted. These problems are most exposed to the co-financing of education and training of staff for competitiveness and employment. In fact, it is possible to finance cooperatives from different sources from different schemes provided by different ministries for the same matters, and in this case this programme has been exempted. With regard to the call for direct incentives for joint development investment projects, which have also been raised in the question, let us say that this belongs within the Ministry of Economy. In all other public tenders, except those two which we carried out last year, there was no restriction on the selection of cooperatives. These were, for example, public calls to promote the employment of the elderly, the long-term unemployed, the training in the workplace and others. The cooperatives have also successfully applied for a public call to promote the employment of young people and to make it more difficult for unemployed people to work. In spite of the above, we have concluded an agreement with the representatives of the Joint Association on the integration of cooperatives into all our follow-up measures by removing the legal form or legal position of the entity under the company law. Thus, calls for tenders now allow all legal and natural persons registered for the purpose of carrying out activities in the Republic of Slovenia to be notified, while cooperatives must ensure that the other terms of the invitation to tender resulting from the requirements of European legislation are met. As we are aware of the situation of cooperatives and cooperatives and the current economic situation, we have also included cooperatives in the implementation of anti-crisis measures, such as the new Wage Reimbursement Intervention Act. The preparation also includes new measures where cooperatives can run for public employment grants, such as promoting the employment of long-term unemployed persons, training of graduates in the workplace and subsidies for the employment of graduates. In this way, we are trying to ensure the cooperatives and development of society in Slovenia to ensure the same conditions as other business operators in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health will be asked a question by Mr France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, we are all aware of the problems that await us and we do not yet feel them. The health crisis is followed by one or two years of economic crisis, given how the collection of taxes financed by health care is taking place. There are fears that all of this will begin with the loss of patients’ rights and also the restriction, the reduction of all those things that mean the well-being of people. Finally, a number of unhealthy things, such as absence from work and similar things, are also paid from health care. And many fear for these rights. At the same time, there are great new needs due to demographic change in Slovenia, due to an increase in the number of old people, with possible special long-term care insurance requiring inadequately high or new taxes. So far, the Ministry has shown the only approach in that it has announced or announced that the Health Insurance Office has announced a reduction in salaries and amortisation funds, which means that we will be further lagging behind in the renewal of equipment and the updating of health equipment and facilities. At the same time, there is nowhere to be seen from the perspective of those measures that would prevent the heinous limitation of patients' rights. Therefore, I ask you: How do you plan to prevent all of this, even in the event of anticipated losses - and it is already seen here that the Ministry understands slightly differently the threat of the reduction of funds, since your forecasts for the following year, regarding the negative balance in the health insurance company, are inappropriately milder than the insurance companies themselves. This year's deficit will somehow be covered by the profits accumulated in the previous term or by the funds saved by hospitals [[End warning sign]] last year. But next year will be the end of all that has accumulated so far, and it will be unseemly higher [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u209	Dear President, honourable Members! Dr. Tuckyat, thank you for asking. You've diagnosed the current situation. I would hardly deny that the dilemmas and open questions you have raised are not accurate, they stand. At this point, however, the biggest problem before medical bills is how to ensure an enormous increase in the wages paid in health by the reform of public wages prepared by Mr Virant. We have 31% of salary increases, which is the biggest problem that both the Treasury and the Ministry are dealing with. Salaries are paid regularly, and I will add, Dr. Sugar, that the consequences of the economic crisis are not yet felt in Slovenian health care. Since you've expanded the question, I'm going to expand the answer. In an interview with the leadership of the Murska Sobota, no one on the Murska Sobota wants to understand and let go of progress, not when they have such problems in the neighbouring Mura. An agreement on public sector wages, especially in health care, will urgently need to be relaunched in the autumn. This is a key problem right now. As Director of the Institute, I have had extremely serious problems, with respect to Dr. Tsukati, because the representatives of the State voted against the proposal at each meeting of the Assembly to create a reserve. If there were no 130 million reserves in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we would already have a collapse in the system. New legislation is being prepared. The Health Act is in public debate. I was very happy with the debate on your parliamentary group, Dr. Tuckati. I think she was very good and constructive. The comments you made have already begun to be incorporated and taken into account. But I must say that the key things regarding the material situation in health care are regulated or will be regulated by the new Health and Health Insurance Act. And now the answer to your question. In 2009, there is no provision for the deprivation of rights from compulsory health insurance. I think I've been specific enough. Rights are governed by the Health and Health Insurance Act. And we will come with this law, and only the National Assembly can decide on changes in rights, in accordance with its powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u211	Mr. Secretary, I'm not very pleased with your answer. We all know that the Health and Health Insurance Act only provides framework for rights, but it is more specifically defined by the Health Insurance Office with your consent. Last week, this institution adopted reductions in the share of compulsory health insurance for medical treatment and non-medical care on the day of hospital care from 40% to 15%. That's a big change, Mr. Secretary. And at the same time, prescriptions from the intermediate list are called prescriptions from the intermediate list, paid from compulsory insurance - earlier at 25%, now at 10%. This is said to be where justice fell: once from 40 to 15% and twice from 25 to 10%. So don't think the law doesn't break. They're already cramping - with your consent. So you know about it. And here's the question of how to deal with the following rights. So those specifics that may be happening and already appear somewhere in the back. The difference will have to be paid by the patient in his pocket, or the additional insurance will have to be increased accordingly. And in this sense, of course, the question for the future is to be honest, say in advance: which rights will be violated, that when people come to the point that they have to pay, they will not be too surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Miklavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u213	Your information, your esteemed Dr. Chukati, is not perfect. In the austerity measures taken by the Department and prepared by the Ministry, we have entered into a serious and firm negotiation to cut prices - I will only give an example, on medicines. The financial impact is very high. The financial effects are, according to the system, both in compulsory health insurance and the same financial impact in voluntary health insurance, as you well know, given that both segments cover these costs. An agreement was adopted, exactly as you quoted it, but due to the impact of the saved funds due to the reduction of prices on the voluntary health insurance side, voluntary health insurance has jumped in and covered this part. In this way, no right of compulsory health insurance has been violated this year. All rights remain the same. It was made due to the urgency of such a movement, and also with voluntary insurance companies, an agreement was reached that this move does not change the premium of voluntary health insurance this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u215	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a debate on the Minister's response first because these are very important issues. Second, that the Ministry is addressing a growing lack of resources in the health sector only through the projected increase in taxes and the limitation and reduction of rights or the carrying of burdens or direct to patients' pockets or supplementary health insurance. The main question is why this is the only way to approach the financing of health care. Only once did the Minister mention the question - this is how hospital doctors or secondary level determine why up to 30% of the non-necessary referrals and non-necessary care, which means 30% of the funds are spent on medical bills for unnecessary purposes. This is similar to what was done in the area of social transfers, where there was no control over these transfers, and about 20,30% of people were unjustifiably receiving and disposing of these funds at the expense of those who really needed them. If Mr Minister had also asked primary health care, he would have gotten even bigger figures that up to 40% of the unnecessary general ambulance visit was there. This means that unnecessary requirements cover and take the right of those who really need them. Once he steps through the infirmary door, there's a need here. And it enters the system, and it takes extensive investigations to find out that it's okay, according to your gut, in such cases. What will you do to make this entry into the system more rational, smaller [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And there will be more resources on this account for those who really need them. [[...]] This is the Ministry's task, this is the task of the Health Act, which does not foresee such interventions in any way, Mr Minister. And this is not facing the financial crisis that threatens us in health care, the confrontation that we are given less for these, less for those [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to reduce the rights or rights of patients. [[...]] There's another system waiting for you, and there's your job. For this reason, I propose a debate on this answer. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The Minister cannot answer any further questions today. It will be your proposal, Mr Tsukati, that the National Assembly discusses the Minister's response, a decision taken on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Mr Miran Györek, Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Following the proposed budget rebalancing proposal, it is clear that there is a reduction in income for approx. 860 million and a tax revenue reduction of 760 million, which is minus 400 million in VAT, is minus 12%. And I would also like to draw attention to a certain lack of traffic control in the sale of certain food products. In this regard, I have in mind the majority of the different s.p.s and other real persons involved in the production, sale and sale of food items in various kiosks, stands, markets, pastry shops, restaurants, etc. I ask you: How is it possible that in the vast majority - as a rule, accounts are not issued or are not maintained by cashiers in the sale of various items, such as ice cream, burek, kebab, hamburgers, etc.? It was interesting to note that a certain company operating at the same time in Slovenia and neighbouring Austria, 10 kilometers ahead, does not issue invoices or maintain a cash register when selling its products in Slovenia, but does not carry out realisations while in its pastry in Austria, the invoices must be issued. From the point of view of actual traffic, it is certainly not possible to collect VAT effectively or at all in such cases. Let me just remind and point out that this is hundreds, if not thousands of entities, and that this is a huge amount of transport as well as of the unpaid VAT or corporate income tax. Even more so, all those innkeepers, such as restaurants, innkeepers, daily bars, etc., are placed in an unequal position and are also controlled. Such hosts regularly issue invoices, although in most cases their realisation of traffic is far from reaching the traffic of those I mentioned in the introductions. When we checked the situation in this area, it was interesting to find that, say, some pastry shop in a hotel or restaurant when selling ice cream, it issued an account, kiosk or pastry across the street, which is privately owned, but it is not bound, although there is 10 times more traffic than 10 times as many people. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of the Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u219	Your Honor! All those who fall under the responsibility of issuing accounts must issue accounts. Some very small market vendors come under flat-rate taxation and are not considered in this case. However, our answer is as follows: The tax authority in tax control shall verify that taxable persons comply with their tax obligations under the Tax Law and in accordance with the Tax Procedure and Tax Control Act. Tax controls may be carried out as internal controls with the tax authority or external control, which is the inspection of the taxpayer. Internal control includes control of tax accounts. The tax authority in tax control, in control of the charging and payment of VAT, shall also exercise control over the issuance of invoices. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall carry out tax inspections of taxable persons engaged in catering activities and other service activities. In this area, tax inspectors in 2007 started for the first time with a new method of supervision, which includes photographing accounts. Inspectors make purchases of catering or other services, take photographs of the invoice received and leave it at the restaurant or at the place of sale; this also applies to those small ones who are no longer so small, fruit-selling, pastry and the like. In the case of ex post controls, it was found that in many taxpayers the copy was not equal to the original of the invoice and that the taxable person deleted individual account items. The tax authority, through the media, advises consumers that, in all purchases, they should be so small, the seller is required to issue an invoice and, above all, to take the account and not leave it at the shop or place of sale or in its surroundings. In this way, all consumers can positively influence the lawful conduct of taxpayers, not only innkeepers, but all sellers of goods and service providers. The Ministry of Finance, together with Durs, is also exploring the possibility of introducing so-called tax registers, but this measure is now linked to considerable costs and is therefore being carefully examined. As elsewhere or in most other cases, rapid technological developments are also taking place here, and current technology has come so far as to allow electronic traffic controllers to be set up for fiscal purposes only, it is said, not a complete cashier corresponding to the quality of this computer, the PC, for a cost of EUR 200 per cash. This new technology has not yet been introduced, it's just being tested. We are monitoring this testing and will introduce it among the first to produce good enough results. Currently, it shows that the price of each cash register is €590, but if we equip it with all the links, there will be up to €900 per cash register, which is very large. Speaking of which, how did the controls go? In 2008, inspectors conducted 1,137 studies or inspections of individual service and sales activities. Impairment was observed at approximately 50%. During the first five months of this year, the inspectors carried out 722 inspections and 256 detected irregularities, at 35 percent. It's a mass violation of the rules. For each error detected, the person responsible must pay 400 euros and the company must pay 1,600 euros in fines. We expect that when the cash infrastructure is modernised, it will be possible to substantially increase the correct information on invoices issued and at the same time simplify business, which will facilitate the work of these smaller service activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you. Dear Mr. Secretary! I didn't mean the technique, the technology, the registration of traffic and the issuance of accounts here, but I wanted to focus a little bit more on VAT collection alone, the consistency in VAT collection. I wasn't thinking about those shopkeepers, the local vegetable growers by the stands, that's where it's really about negligible amounts. You know exactly who I was thinking about. With regard to VAT collection and, of course, with this deficit, as I can see, there is a shortage of as much as 9 million minus 17. No wonder, look, there's no control over the VAT payments here either. Such inconsistent or inadequate collection of budgetary taxes, as is the case here, also in the case of a motor vehicle. So on this occasion I would like to warn you or ask you. All over Slovenia, procedures have been initiated against some sellers, better said retailers, importers of motor vehicles, not natural persons, but legal persons, various d.o.o.-is, straws and similar, taxpayers for corporate income tax. In Prekmurje there are quite a few such "legal" in the phrase, "person" and I ask you Mr. Minister: How is it possible for such specimens to carry out their activity without decoupling or paying VAT or taxes on motor vehicles from a few years ago? It is only after a few years that they are caught and found that they have already done damage to your ministry for millions and millions of euros that you no longer find. The vehicles have been sold, they have not deducted VAT, but judicial proceedings are now under way and so on, but there is no money. There is no such thing abroad. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u222	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. In collecting VAT, in particular from some car dealers, there are two separate problems. The first is that these traders have to charge their own VAT when they buy cars. In this case, the control of VAT payments is relatively simple. The fall from this is mainly related to the downward movement of traffic. We expect this turnover to take place during the period when replacement purchases will still have to be made. Slovenia has a practically saturated or structured market. Some vehicles just fail and need to be bought again. Whether this is 5%, 15% of vehicles, means that the number of vehicles bought will increase to some normal level as soon as possible. Another problem is the problem of tax whirls, where an individual trader shows a cost that appears to be justified and in fact is not justified and thus avoids payment of VAT. These tax whirls are not easy to detect, but inspection services, tax administrations detect them and then also report them to the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Ministry of the Interior. For the last time, we also had one working meeting where we observed that these applications were still being processed because they were relatively complex acts of tax fraud. This, of course, needs to be examined more closely and these processes are largely in fact standing and you have noticed that. But I hope they don't get old after all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u225	Indeed, the business possibilities for further discussion do not make sense for me to demand it here because things are more or less clear. The decision of the Ministry is, I think, in such a case, if this supervision is taken in detail and it is done as it should be, it really is not necessary for this to happen in Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u226	Mr. Györek, aren't you going to propose?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u227	I'm not suggesting. I just wanted to explain why I wouldn't suggest it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u228	Then you have no right to speak. [[...]] Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The objectives of the European Union in relation to child protection, called Barcelona objectives, require all Member States to provide access and quality childcare facilities by 2010 for 33% of children under three years of age and 90% of children between three and school age. In times of crisis, accessible and quality child protection is not only a condition but also the most important tool to ensure equal opportunities for children from socially disadvantaged families to enter their lives. In Slovenia, sixty-six thousand children are involved in child care, which is 70% of all children of the relevant age. So it's approaching Barcelona's kindergarten targets. We could say that Slovenia’s second goal has already reached or exceeded. In the school year 2008 - 2009, 49% of children under three years of age were enrolled in kindergarten. The proportion of children enrolled in kindergarten during the second age period is approximately 84%. We can already talk about the mass involvement of children in kindergartens. And here the success story of preschool education is almost over. According to the media, we can follow warnings that in the fall may remain a good number of children outside the network of educational institutions. As a result, there is a strong pressure on local communities to reduce standards and standards, and on the other hand, parents are concerned about where they will put their children if they do not have the opportunity to have a free place in kindergarten. On the other hand, the profession points to unacceptable requirements for the reduction of standards and standards and for the inclusion of more children in kindergartens. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, what measures will you take to ensure at least the existing quality of preschool education, to take into account standards and standards and to ensure greater inclusion of children mainly from socially less stimulating environments? I thank you for your answer now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Luksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u231	Vice-President, Member of Parliament, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you so much for asking. As you know, it deals with large gardens and large plots in the Ministry of Agriculture and with small ones called kindergartens and our ministry. The answer to this question has several layers. The first, which I think is very important, is that we reach a broader consensus in Slovenia, that education in the preschool period is very important or even the most important in the entire vertical. There is no such agreement in Slovenia today. Most think that the period when the children are mature for kindergarten is a period where urgent protection is particularly necessary. So protection, not educational and educational work with children. To move this consensus, I also met representatives of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. The President, academic Trontel, agreed that in September we would start a major debate on the importance of such education and education. Without this conviction, I do not imagine that the National Assembly will be able to decide that, in addition to this, a million EUR 600, as far as we have in this year's budget, should be added much more. We note that the need to increase access to kindergartens is currently around €70 million. This, of course, does not mean that the main burden is on the National Assembly. We know that kindergartens are the responsibility of the congregations. But it's 70 million euros. If we do not make a contribution at national level, it is difficult to count on the congregations to do so themselves in due course. It is also important to note at the Ministry that this would need to be amended by Article 24A on the financing of municipalities, because we do not imagine that the state, the true National Assembly, would provide all funds or 80% of the funds for kindergartens. This would mean a substantial underweight or too much burden for a country which is difficult to bear. A public debate that will move the idea that kindergartens are more than just a protective institution. That's the first thing. The second is the construction of additional kindergartens, following the standards that have already been adopted, and we keep moving them away. Among other things, there is a standard, which is in play, 3 square meters per child. This standard has long been approved by the profession, but we are moving it because we simply do not have enough room for children in kindergartens. I don't see a solution in reducing standards, I see a solution in maintaining standards, but for this I need to get additional funds. However, there will be no additional resources if we do not convince the entire Slovenian public, including the parents of these children, including the National Assembly, that there is more to be invested in this. And, of course, convince the municipal councilmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased with everything you have said to me because it tells me how to manage the area of preschool education as required by the profession and as you are likely responsible parents, as well as we, as citizens and citizens, want the children's benefits to be put at the centre. And that's quality preschool education. However, if we are very realistic or pragmatically oriented, then we know that parents who will stay with the children before the kindergarten door, which also allows subsidisation of costs for parents, will have little choice of where to choose with children. I refer, of course, to that provision of the Kindergarten Act, which refers to the guardian of children who provides for a lower education and does not foresee any subsidy for him. So those parents who won't get room for their child in kindergarten will be forced to look for a different form that will not - at least as far as I'm concerned - given the level of education and all the other things that will be the problem here will be less quality work. I understand your warning that more should also be invested in building better, more suitable premises, but this will take some time. And now those who want to have more relaxed standards and standards are just saying it's about [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a three-year measure. [[...]] And I don't believe that. Can you find a short - term solution to this series of problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Minister Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you. If I had a magic wand or a wand, then I could serve here with some kind of measure that would solve the matter in the short term. If we don't have buildings, if we don't have teachers, but we have kids, then there's just no short-term solution. However, it is a long-term solution, a solution which, in my opinion, mainly requires strengthening the idea that this is an important issue of the development of Slovenia. That it is not only a matter of parents who are now at the door or who are staying with their children at the door, but it is an important developmental issue. I'm only interested at this point in terms of strategy. And here we are with the same thoughts. The Ombudsman’s institution can only be a temporary solution, a marginal aid that is welcome in this situation, when it is necessary, when parents go to work to help them to have at least as well as well as well - trained educators. There is no short-term solution in sight, but there are long-term solutions ahead of us and ahead of you in terms of expanding the capacity and encouraging students to decide more massively for the training professions. When I was just talking about the rooms, it's not just about the rooms, it's about the teachers. We're gonna need more teachers so we can get all the kids to kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Following an agreement at the meeting, Dr. Matej Lahovnik will now answer unanswered questions from previous meetings. First, on the question of Member Bogdan Barovic concerning the Green Paper on Slovenia's National Energy Programme. Here you go, Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, Mr Barovic mentions the development plan of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje in his question and asks whether we will include it in the national energy programme. Allow me to explain that two types of energy facilities are possible at the site of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. In the government procedure, a proposal for a decision to initiate the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for a gas steam power plant at the location of existing gas turbines is being made just these days. Unfortunately, the initiative to draw up this spatial plan has been waiting for two years in the government procedure. Now, however, the procedure under our legislation will run for at least two more years, so we are actually two years behind schedule. Of course, we don't have a potential investor in the gas steam unit yet; we're looking intensively. We would like to see the Thermoelectric Trbovlje development plan so that it is substantially more based on some realistic assumptions in terms of bringing in a strategic partner on its own. Unfortunately, they've obviously never done that before. Another potential energy facility is a new coal power plant at the location of an existing thermal power plant. It has a very poor performance and therefore a very high operating cost, especially at the moment when electricity prices have essentially decreased by half compared to last year. I am talking about market prices on global markets, which, of course, also reflect targeted energy for domestic industrial customers. The existing one, as I said, has a bad use. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that in 2013 the adopted directives will require the purchase of carbon dioxide emissions rights and, of course, this thermal power plant will be under additional pressure when we speak in terms of profitability. Therefore, we are intensively looking for a potential investor in a new coal-based thermal energy facility or a combination of different energy sources. We know from our interviews with individual potential investors that an installationable facility could be between one hundred and twenty-two megawatts, but until, of course, we have stronger assurances from a potential investor, we cannot begin the process of preparing a state spatial plan, because of course we do not know what technology would be used there if an investment occurred. It is also very important for me to explain at this point that we are working to prepare an application for a European Commission for a possible extension of mining in Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik for at least a few years, because it is known that, in accordance with the existing law and notification of state aid in Brussels, we should stop mining at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u239	I'm grateful for the answer. I listened to him a little bit by the speaker, a little bit here, because we were kind of set up with the minister, so I could get a complete answer at the next meeting, but that's okay. I'd ask you if you could give me this in writing. However, I would like to point out only this by supplementing that a group of Zavali Members has sent both to the Prime Minister and to the Minister a letter and a note on the Regional Development Centre Memorandum, with which we would like to remind the Government that we have a certain amount of net stocks to be used to address the social problem, so that we can also solve part of the economic problem and, above all, we want to take care of energy security. I emphasize the energy security of this country. In the light of the response I have just received, I hope, Mr Minister, we have so far worked well together that regardless of the CO2 quotas, regardless of the payments that Europe requires, it will prevail in this country and that any extension, even if only for three years, represents a major solution to social problems. So I would only ask if you would tell me again: Are you actually working or working in this area to extend the dig for a year, two or three? And are you thinking about whether this country is actually thinking about the energy security of the six megawatts - at this point, but can we do something more later? It is so much energy that it has provided even Ljubljana in the most critical times of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you. Just to clarify according to procedure. Today was then voted, so I was informed to present this point or precisely this question, so that we were probably both equally surprised. I thought he was going to be in the next session. But I would answer this question of yours, which is the most topical and hottest in this part, where you say how it is with the Trbovlje - Hrastnik Rudnik, with this operation extended. As I said, we have prepared a role for the European Commission for a possible extension, at least for a few more years, because we believe that at the time of this recession, each job is so valuable if we keep it. And it is known that, under the existing law and, as I said, the notification of state aid in Brussels should stop mining at the end of this year. Answers, informal inquiries were carried out and suggested that the role should be prepared, but they did not want to respond definitively. And as soon as it's known, we'll let you know, because I know you're worried about this because it's actually a lot of jobs in the Trbovlje and also in the Hratnika.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you. The Minister will now answer Mr Bogdan Čepić's question about the property and property of Slovenian companies in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u243	The Ministry of Economy or the Republic of Slovenia does not have a precise base on the total value of Slovenian companies' assets in the former Yugoslavia. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it is in the order of 31. 12. 21992 was the total book value of Slovenian real estate in Serbia, which was excluded by Slovenian companies from the opening balance sheet, 2.2 billion tolars and 36.7 million then German brands. After subsequent sales or after some bankruptcys, a large part of the value of Slovenian property in Serbia remained unresolved, but there are no accurate records, since Slovenian companies did not report this at the time of the property transformation to the competent department, which was then the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development - we are talking about the 1990s, in fact, in the mid-1990s. When you ask who in Slovenia is dealing with this issue, I must point out that on 14 November 2008 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the appointment to the Working Group to review the implementation of Annex-G. In short, we have an appropriate working group, Annex-G actually refers to this area of success. The group consists of representatives of the Ministry of Finance or the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the succession with the High Representative for Heritage, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Belgrade, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Public-Legal Records and Services, and the DSU, the Consulting and Management Society, which is 100% state-owned. Given the complex ownership or property issues, inter-sectoral coordination of activities is necessary and also a uniform approach when we are talking about protecting the interests of the Slovenian economy. We were - the government - visiting Serbia, as you know, in March, as well as visiting the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Mladen Dinkic, and we also discussed these issues. In short, the topics discussed at the meeting between us were, in addition to bilateral economic cooperation between the countries, with the need to be aware - we have raised the issue of the issue of the assets of Slovenian companies in Serbia, and in this regard a principle agreement has been reached that all Slovenian companies with the right ownership could be auctioned, which was a key issue that the so-called privatisation agency should also make an appropriate announcement - Serbian, which operates within the Ministry, headed by Mr Dinkić. We have also informed the relevant companies. However, I must say that, on the basis of this issue, they are now dealing with this issue at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is also logical, because it is a bilateral issue between countries, which is somehow linked to success. Minister Dinkic stressed his willingness to resolve the issue of the assets of Slovenian companies in Serbia. In order to resolve these procedures as soon as possible, the deadline for the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the protection of property in undertakings established in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY has also been extended. The Serbian side stressed during the interviews that they received 12 applications for privatisation procedures for companies in Slovenia and 39 applications were registered [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenian companies. [[...]] Two days before Minister Dinkić's visit to Slovenia, the first case was positively resolved, namely Kompas. Minister Dinkic mentioned that the Compass proposal model was very good because they proposed taking over the entire company programme in Serbia along with employees. In the interviews, he also ensured that, as a government, they wanted to be more actively involved in these procedures. Under the Serbian Ministry [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for regional development, the issue referred to is within the competence of Nebojsa Čirić, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Property. [[...]] Slovenian companies, however, can directly refer to Nenad Ilic, Special Adviser for Legal Affairs [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you. Now we're moving on to continuing A, you still have a wish for an additional answer, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you so much for asking me an extra question. Thank you very much for your answer, too, Minister. It is true that it would have been better if we had given the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it was an economic issue between the two republics. It's an irregular association thing, which is also our economists and part of our escape economy. I would therefore ask if this answer can also be obtained in writing, so that we can also provide the answer to those who have asked me this question. Above all, I would like more government activities not to mention others, because you mentioned more ministries in this area. It's an immeasurable asset. And when we listen to matters, the Serbian side has now extended the regulation by which this successful thing can be resolved. It is true that the last time you visited, it was also agreed that things would be resolved more quickly; nothing had actually happened at that time. In his conversation with the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in Slovenia, he also drew attention to this problem and to the desire that it be resolved for mutual satisfaction, both in the Republic of Slovenia and in the economy in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u247	I'll say it again. I guess I wasn't clear enough before. In March, under the leadership of the President, Mr Pahor, the government raised this issue. This resulted in an extension of this Regulation. As a result, the first example of the Compass model was also resolved in the interim period. However, the matter is absolutely not simple and is far from within the remit of our ministry, because it is a very complex and can also be a bilateral issue, particularly legal one. This includes the High Representative for Succession, Mr Rudi Gabrovec, I think he was involved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are talking about a potential bilateral issue, which is that the Serbian side has also expressed a very clear expectation of whether there is a possibility of bilateral signing an agreement or something like that, where a whole range of other issues would open up. We said that the way of ownership in Slovenia had gone its way and that it had anticipated a high level of legal protection and that we expect nothing from the Serbian side but that this legal protection would also be provided to Slovenian companies. As I said, we have a successful model, an example which is also the result of these discussions that have been, and I expect that the remaining companies that have a serious interest will take this model into account in some way as well, obviously the Compass proposal was good - as I said, they have proposed taking over the entire programme in Serbia, together with the employees. He certainly doesn't think there'd be any activity here. Once again, I will say that it will be perfectly clear that, within the framework of the Serbian Ministry, the issue referred to in the responsibility of Mr. Nenad Ilic, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Property, Slovenian companies can directly address Mr. Nenad Ilic, Special Adviser on Legal Affairs, also with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. When I was alone in Belgrade with the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, there was also a Slovenian economic councillor at the Embassy in Belgrade, I think that Mr Pevec is, if memory does not deceive me, who is also very well aware of this. Thus, the Slovenian Embassy in Belgrade fully supports Slovenian companies with all necessary information. With regard to data, it is clear that, at this stage, companies must have them themselves and at this stage should be proactive, because, in a natural way, as much as this is a bilateral or a problem of success, the state is making its own. However, businesses must also be sufficiently active in these procedures, as we have seen then the case has also been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cappič, you wanted a written answer, but that's not the usual, it's not the rules of procedure. You'll get a magnetogram and you've got everything written down by the minister. We move on to regular questions, first asked. Mr Miro Friday, there is no Minister for Foreign Affairs. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u249	Yes, however, I will ask a question and also stand in line for a few months to get an answer to this question. During this year of statehood, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has banned Slovenian diplomatic consular representations around the world in order to organise receptions to celebrate the national holiday. This ban is not the first in the history of independent Slovenia and the celebration of this holiday. It happened in the mid-1990s, of course, when the same option was in power as it was today. The significance of the holidays and this national holiday could be discussed for a long time. Statehood Day is a memory of 25 June 1991, when Slovenia formally became an independent state. Statehood Day is not just a memory, it can also be a reminder, it is that we must fight with all our might not to land again in a non-democratic community, which Yugoslavia was then, along with the Yugoslav People's Army, which also attacked us the day or two after the declaration of independence. The total ignorance of the statehood day that they enjoy on the MZZ may indicate that some are still sad after the previous state, the previous regime. Instead of the proud and dignified holding of the summit of Slovenian diplomacy with the success of Slovenia, its Presidency of the European Union, its reputation in the international community has been banned from celebrating the day of statehood. With regard to this holiday, the attitude towards the State and the Government has also demonstrated its attitude towards the State and Statehood in this way that it has banned the celebration of this holiday from diplomatic and consular missions. Part of the answer to this question, of course I already know, will be stated: the whole country is saving and, in order to save, it has been prohibited to mark the day of statehood in the DKPs. I reject that answer in advance. The celebration is not related to richly covered tables, a liter of champagne, or cheering. If this has ever happened before, of course I condemn it. The celebration of a state holiday abroad is intended for contacts with the environment where the embassy or consulate works; contacts with the host country, the diplomatic assembly, the economists and ultimately the Slovenians who live there. Holidays and holiday receptions at diplomatic and consular representations can be opportunities to establish contacts, to weave urgently needed social networks, which are important for any diplomat. The Slovenian National Community in neighbouring Italy was extremely disappointed that they were not invited to the General Consulate in Trieste this year. The champagne would have brought our foreigners with us. So I'm asking Minister Samuel Žbogar: What led the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ban the celebration of this day's statehood at diplomatic and consular offices? I expect an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you. You will receive an answer at the next meeting, of course, if the Minister is present. Mr Franci Kek will now ask the Minister of Transport a question. Excuse me. I was wrong. I skipped. Mr Franz Bogovic is on the agenda to ask the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u251	Nice greetings, Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers, ministers and respectable colleagues! Frances is still the largest in Slovenia, so such errors are also possible. My question is, as has already been said, addressed to the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of Mags. The Golden Plosteiner refers mainly to the use of European funds as one of the very important instruments in which we can develop our beautiful Slovenia on the one hand, and on the other we are also putting out the consequences of the great economic crisis. In the Slovenian People's Party, we find that in Slovenia this year there is nothing to do with this area, or at least on the outside we do not feel those who are working on this area at the regional, local level. Thus, we have already written that in some way there is a total eclipse in this area and that activities are taking place mainly on the tenders or projects approved last year are under way, but we miss those calls that were already expected, announced in some way, and in a variety of environments have also been prepared by local communities for such calls. I am thinking of calls for proposals in the area of the development programme of the regions, the renovation of castles, economic centres and also a very important call for energy efficiency measures. In the announcement of this last call, the preliminary government informed the municipalities of the possibility of using these funds for the energy rehabilitation of schools, kindergartens. According to such information, preparation for projects has also begun in many congregations in order to be truly prepared for such calls. This year, it is noted that in this first wave of this call, these funds are expected or earmarked only for state facilities such as hospitals, higher education institutions, and that municipalities or schools, kindergartens in this area are poorly registered. We are against this leadership ourselves because we firmly believe that many municipalities have already prepared for these projects and that these projects have an important role to play, including the educational moments for children who are good promoters of efficient energy use in these schools, while this shows a centralist relationship in the government. So I ask: What has led the government to this? On the other hand, we also follow the practice in Germany when fellow mayors have double investment funds and are obliged to spend them this year. In this way Germany is facing a crisis where it is easiest, even at the local level. My question, as I have said before: What will be done and what has led the government in this work, that it is evident in the efficient use of energy [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your questions. The initial conclusion was very black that there is a eclipse in the area of cohesion policy in Slovenia. I cannot agree with such an evaluation on my own, and I strongly oppose it. Now it's just information about this eclipse. 9 calls were issued this year from an operational programme to strengthen regional development potential, while two direct confirmations of major projects totalling €368 million were issued. This is a matter of calls which are extremely important for dealing with the crisis mentioned by the Member and which we have also given due attention to, and that is why we have also made it possible to spend resources in certain areas of all of the planned 2013 funds. These are invitations to the economy, such as the purchase of new technology equipment, joint development and investment projects, the development of centres of excellence, the call for tourism infrastructure, which is, inter alia, ongoing, to inter-enterprise educational centres, where there are often partners of local communities and so on. If I mention the operational programme for the development of human resources, a total of 35 calls for proposals for a wide variety of content were published this year. As an example, I refer again only from the promotion of co-financing for employment of more difficult, young unemployed, older unemployed, long-term unemployed to national professional qualifications, training in the workplace, employment of researchers in the economy, then employment of vulnerable groups in the field of culture, where local cultural institutions can often participate, to many other calls not to list them. Four operations were confirmed this year under the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. Three projects have already been submitted to the Commission. In conclusion, there are also several projects to be approved in July, but only for illustration, because this is a matter of direct confirmation. This year, the first half of the year was allocated 120 million euros, which is the same as last year throughout the year. So much for an illustration of a eclipse I really can't agree with. Here is also the "OP RODI for a number of projects, in which local communities also participate, not only for state infrastructure. I am aware, however, that there are many problems in this area and therefore we are also making an accelerated effort to provide additional assistance in the preparation of the local infrastructure projects included in the OP ROPI. In particular, you ask for certain content from development in the region to energy rehabilitation of buildings. For the development of the regions, you know, the former Minister has also called for funds for 2010, and a number of projects are under way. That municipalities have problems in this field of project implementation, we can also see from the fact that a large majority of them have asked for annexes to the contracts and the changed time dynamics of these projects, which has caused us an additional great administrative burden. We have therefore decided in our service to prepare a new call for proposals in this area so that the municipalities can also have normal budgetary planning. The call for proposals will be made for the remainder of the funds in 2010, 2011, 2012. The invitation to tender for the preparation of the regional implementation plans, which are the basis for the submission of the invitation to tender, has already been published, I believe that on 12 June, where the content already being specified, can be applied for by the municipalities or local communities and regions. I therefore believe and hope that intensive work in the regions is already under way and that the implementation plans will also be ready in time. In the final stage, however, the preparation of the call for proposals in this area is also being prepared. Similarly, in the area of sustainable energy use, where centralism is not at national level, this project has several sub-projects. One of the sub-projects is the energy rehabilitation of state-owned public buildings. Another important sub-project, which includes the Ministry of Education, is the energy rehabilitation of local public buildings, it is said, of kindergartens and schools, which you are also talking about and where activities are already being carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Sport, and this programme will also come into funding. At the same time, the ILO is preparing a programme [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u255	I'd like to help the secretary tell her to the end, because I'm really interested in these things. At the same time, I really ask you to focus on the issues at hand, particularly on the area of local communities and regional affairs. In the field of economy, I know these calls, and I know that they are in progress, but we do miss actually calls where we can also play an active role in the congregations, and I am very interested, as I have already said. You have partly explained the development of the regions. We know the economic centres, a very important project that I think has some kind of revision today and is being scrutinized. What is the fate of this invitation to tender? However, in my view, the efficient use of energy has indeed been a milestone in the strategy, which I believe is the EUR 180 million earmarked for this overall sub-programme. According to my data, there are about 40 million calls for these two ministries. Personally, I do not mind that this is the case, and it is also right for hospitals and higher education institutions to equip themselves. But the truth is, we have a lot of these buildings built in the '70s, '80s. for years and that energy consumption is four times, five times higher than some normal norm of today, and it would be good if we could do that here too. As far as the use of funds this year is concerned, we know this data and agriculture, traditionally good for cohesion funds, and they are back, so I hope that it will go on in another area. And I'm asking for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u257	Now, if I may continue where I stayed. If the question were not so blackly asked, you might be able to focus on what you might be more interested in. However, since you gave the full assessment yourself, I had to answer it, of course. Now, if I continue where I was interrupted - measures for the development of the regions, you said, this is understandable to you, there is no need to explain further. Regarding sustainable energy use: two calls have already been announced by the Ministry for these remote heating systems on 15 May and also for individual needs. However, as far as the rehabilitation of public buildings is concerned, I have started earlier, there are sub-projects meant here and one of these sub-projects is also the energy rehabilitation of public-owned buildings, local property. I just sat at the Ministry of Education last Friday, together with the Minister and the Secretary of State regarding the preparation and activities they are taking in this area of cooperation with the ILO, where this will be the energy rehabilitation of the opportunities of kindergartens and schools where they prepare and conduct activities. We know that the needs are great, enormous and we need to find a suitable way to choose from this set of projects those who will also go to co-financing. It is also clear that we are going primarily here to give priority to those projects for which, as you say, the congregations are already ready. Another activity that binds here is the programme for the rehabilitation of these multi-housing buildings, which is carried by a colleague from the environment and will also be ready in a short time. Of course, notifiers will be able to join the municipalities within the framework of this type of housing infrastructure. You also asked about local cultural sites. The call is also in the final stage of preparation. As mentioned in the forecast, it will be published in August, and the ministry will ensure that it will also be published in August, and currently very actively responds, or has contacts with the municipalities that ask, need help, and provide this assistance accordingly. Thus, it is not in any case that the state of cohesion funds would usurp and devote only to its own infrastructure, but, of course, in the field of energy rehabilitation of buildings, it makes sense to partly assist this infrastructure, which is ultimately the same tax burden as local infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u258	Thank you. Now Franci Kek will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u259	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! You may say that we often ask you about the completion of the highway cross, but here things change very often, not for the better, but for the worse. On 30 June in Otokec, you said, "In the first half of next year", half an hour after you, the representative of Darsa said, "30. in June." This is still the first half of next year, but it's not January 1st, it's the last day of this first half. I'm talking about a highway in Dolenjska. I would like to ask: What is the current situation, when can we expect the completion of the highway cross in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u260	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr President, Member. Already in the previous question of completion of the highway cross, I am explaining how things are going. At Pluska-Ponikve-Krastje, we still have 15 kilometers; at the reconstruction of the section of Peračica-Subtubor, we have 2.4 kilometers on the upper leg, then we have 10.5 kilometers on the eastern maribor bypass. The reconstructed section of the Peračica-Subtubor motorway will be dedicated in 2010 and the eastern Maribor bypass will be handed over in the course of August. In view of the fact that the purchase of the missing land could not be realized in those deadlines we wanted to complete the roads by this year, this was until April 2009 the deadline for Pluska-Ponikve-Crastije was withdrawn. There must be two for the deal; there was no one else. Our situation was a desire, if we follow the path of justice, the matter can move further away than it moves away. Well, we're taking the court road. I'm, like I said last time, prone to a deal, but there was no deal so far. If we can reach the end of this month, then it is possible, at the expected course of events, at the normal course of events, at the expected time in the Republic of Slovenia, which is a long-term average time in the Republic of Slovenia, that we can complete up to 30. 6. 2010 However, the fact is that we are today on 13 July and do not have one or another agreement yet concluded. Today, at the college with our colleagues, we re-examined everything, found that, for at least one instance, there are no obstacles to this moment, except for a bit of goodwill on the part of one of the two decommissioning cases. Others could crystallize themselves by the end of this week so that we can close it by the end of this month. We work on it every day. So I hope that the next time you ask me when we next have questions from Members that I will be able to give you a positive answer that by 31 August we have been able to resolve two decommissioning problems with the agreement. If there is no agreement, then, of course, it will not be possible to complete within these deadlines, which I have just mentioned for the lower leg. So the decommissioning procedures are moving, but if we're going to have to go to the end with decomposition, then it's going to move a lot further. For this reason, at our ministry, we have also proposed an amendment to the legislation relating to decommissioning, the first grave drafts are already ready and we are waiting to get them into inter-departmental coordination, so that we can be more effective in this area, because the reasons that hinder the construction of motorways are very large: either public procurement, or relaxation, or weather - so there are many reasons that keep us from completing certain legs. However, if you'll excuse me, I must say two words about the lower leg. Dolenjski crak had one of the longest spatial regulations in the Republic of Slovenia, so that this road could already be built if it were not for 14 years spatially regulated. So between 7 and 11 years is the average in Slovenia - which is very large. 36 months is theoretically possible to receive from the idea to the adoption of a spatial act, and 14 years is almost a record for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u262	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Keck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u263	Sure. Given these 14 years, I wish you a more successful job. But I'm curious, you said, "The laws will be passed, which will shorten the hands for dissipation." And I want to know: If we accept them in the shortest possible time, will this affect these problems that you have now, or is this going to follow the current one?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u264	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u265	For this particular case - unfortunately not because the discharge started under the old rules and will also end under the old rules. However, it will apply to all cases from the adoption of the law or from the enforcement of the regulation and beyond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. In the past weeks, following the adoption of the amendment to the Financial Action Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, the law that allows unlimited awards also to insolvency managers that began before October 2008 has dramatically increased the claims of bankruptcy managers, i.e. the number and level of awards, and the judgments of the insolvency managers. In doing so, we are opposed to the practice of courts, which are usually very slow, here witnessing exceptional cooperation and the expediency of the courts in the adoption of awards decisions. Let me mention some of the highest prizes: the bankruptcy manager, Andrej Marinc, in Elan receives - has been granted EUR 233,873. The bankruptcy manager of the Vrhnika Leather Industry, Natasa Gibičar Toš - 202.916. That's how much if we got paid for all the workers, all 500 of them, we'd get all the workers together in one month or less. Then Branko Ogorevc at the company I see 346,000. Food Credit Service Secura, Brane Gorse - 167.000; Stefan Veren in Automontage - Bus - 255,000. Mr. Minister, I now ask you: Why did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia deceive Members when it was 6. 3. For its consideration in the National Assembly, 2009 sent a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Transactions Act to insolvency and forced termination procedures and, in the accompanying text, stated, inter alia, that the proposal for a law has no implications for the State budget and other public financial resources and that the law will have no other consequences? On what basis did the Members vote in favour of the amendment? In fact, the expert doses and awards prove otherwise to the managers of insolvency proceedings. It already has a novelty and will have significant consequences, which will also further affect public finances. The State is the majority owner of certain state-owned companies, funds and so on, which are creditors in these procedures. The question, of course, is: Was the misleading of Members by misinformation the result of negligence or contrived conduct? Then I ask you: How does the Government intend to prevent payments from the courts of already-priced professional awards to bankruptcy managers? And what about the rewards already paid? It is Jewish money, which is required in every way, and it has been deliberately taken by this legislation in such a way that it has come to this. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, if this was consciously done, then we have to be even more concerned about it than it seems right now. For these payments have taken place - not on the basis of the novel A of this Law, but on the basis of the law adopted during the previous government and the previous mandate and which entered into force 1. Ten. 2008 This law expressly provides that the provisions of this new law, which entered into force at the time, shall apply to the administration's dosage and maturity. So it's 1. Ten. 2008 And if you look at the decisions made by the courts regarding the recognition of these compensations, you can find that the courts also explain the law of the day. So it's not the original sin in novel A, the novel that came into force a month ago, exactly 13. This year's 6th. The original sin is in the basic law. Let me give you just one example of payment to the bankruptcy manager under this basic law, not after the A. In the Videm case - EUR 346,531 for the procedure that started before 1. Ten. 2008 and where the current law and the new regulation were applied. A rule issued again by the former Minister. The biggest problem in this Regulation is that it did not impose any ceilings on these refunds. Unlike the previous sub-legislative act, which was repealed by the former Minister with a new regulation, which provided for these restrictions. However, I must say that the previous order, despite certain restrictions it had, allowed for very high payouts. For example, in the Hydra Koper case, where the assessment decision was issued on 15 May this year, i.e. before the entry into force of novel A, a prize of €119,317.75 was awarded. In short, the problem arises elsewhere. What we have all been paying attention to, including the Ministry of Justice and the Government, are, of course, these payments in recent times. We have been warned of this, unfortunately, and I must express it with regret. That's not what the courts warned us about. These are the first ones called to decide how to apply the regulation. We have learned about this situation from the media or the APIPS records. And the following day, after it became a well-known payment, which was awarded in bankruptcy proceedings against the Vrhnika leather industry, the Ministry of Justice prepared a regulation on amendments and additions to the regulation issued by the former Minister. Since you have asked me what we will do: this rule, which has been in force since last Saturday, sets out the ceilings for amounts that can be paid in bankruptcy proceedings and cannot possibly exceed or EUR 20 000 in the case of an opening report, or EUR 10 000 in the case of a claim test, or EUR 50 000 in the case of the final sale of the property in bankruptcy. We've determined [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] important restrictions; and tomorrow, the National Assembly will consider a new amendment to this law, which will provide for all ministers in the future the obligation to prescribe this maximum. [[...]] So that it doesn't happen again that some minister will one day eliminate this maximum. And finally, today I also spoke about this with the Presidents of the Courts, with the President of the Supreme Court and all the higher courts. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] to examine this matter in particular in the context of open procedures. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I cannot be satisfied with your answer. In fact, because you yourself said that the former restrictions did not allow the ceiling to be exceeded and that the enormous prizes had already been awarded. At the same time, you're 6. 3. sent to the National Assembly to amend the amendment of the law, and on behalf of the parliamentary group, I myself, Mr Minister, told you that the amendment of the law is an opportunity for the Government to propose such changes as would accelerate the change in the bankruptcy process and increase the protection of the interests of creditors in the bankruptcy process. In our opinion, it is a matter of developing insolvency legislation under the current government's tactics in the wrong direction; this is confirmed today. The plethora of these awards and the functioning of the court has waned after the adoption of this novel, which allows the two-time award of managers in cases where the award has already been paid and thus encourages the delay of bankruptcy proceedings. We have proposed an amendment that would make this impossible and was rejected by the coalition, most of them, and the intention of marriage has gone in the wrong direction. The government, the ministry, if, because it was warned by the boards of creditors - not like you said! The Uprising Committees have alerted you as to where the matter is going, what will happen. I have here their letters and their warnings and the government has not reacted. I even have information that some bankruptcyists have been warned that the scissors will be closed when the public goes mad and that they have been warned to make good use of the time and that the courts will also make quick decisions. But when it comes to lawsuits and the interests of people, small people, they're ten years old, fifteen years old, and they don't come. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] to the right. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I have carefully read the transcript of your discussions on the committee. You're the one who really warned me about one danger. But you pointed out the danger of understanding this novel A so that it could be used retroactively, and then the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly explained to you exactly that the law could not be interpreted as such. However, if someone interprets it that way - and this is not the responsibility of the government, not of Parliament, but of the courts, the courts are the ones who use and interpret the rules - but if they do, then those who are affected by such an explanation, of course, have the legal interest to challenge the decision. I can also tell you that in those cases where the State is a creditor in these proceedings and such compensations have been recognised as astronomical, I, as Minister, expect that the State's defence, as the representative of the State's interests, will appeal. I also specifically ordered the State Defence Office to expect this appeal to be filed in all cases where the appeal deadlines are still open. However, in the context of my assessment of the complaints, it would be quite likely that the Courts would have an obligation to reject the application of such a sub-law, to use their constitutional authority, so-called 'ecceptio illegalis', since judges are bound only to the Constitution and the law, not to the sub-legislative act. In short, in this case these situations could be remedied in the appeal proceedings. And most of these conclusions, which have been issued in particular in the last week, are still open to complaints. And where creditors will take advantage of this appeal path, I think there is a chance that such payments will not occur.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u274	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, of course, you said it was time for the Attorney General's Office to press charges. However, these tasks, protecting the public interest in state-owned enterprises, those where the state-owned country, or state-owned enterprises for unknown reasons, are not, or at all, satisfactory. Because I do not believe that the current legislation is prepared in such a way that it will be effective, and therefore these answers need to be clarified. Because it is millions of euros of Jewish money, which has been taken from workers as bloodhounds by workers who have earned it, so an additional discussion under Article 246 must be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u276	Mr Jerovšek, I did not hear a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u277	I propose that a general debate be held on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 15 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marijan Bezjak will now put the question to the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia, there is a trend of companies that go bankrupt and of companies that forgive workers from day to day more. Some time ago, in Gorenje, a share company, they reduced the number of employees by 450. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Are you in Gorenje speaking more decisively and thoroughly as a country and as Minister of Economy than in Mura? Gorenje is of strategic importance, not only for the valley of Salek and Koroška, but for the whole of Slovenia. How do you view as Minister of Economy, is the Slovenian government concrete enough in this recession? Would you, as Minister of the Economy, have acted differently if the other fellow ministers had given you at least a little more time to implement the measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you very much, honourable Member Marjan Bezjak for the question raised. As far as Gorenje is concerned, I agree with you that one of the key paradoxes of the Slovenian economy, which was not least the biggest Slovenian net exporter for many years. Unquestionably, I wouldn't be in a relative, I'll say, difficult situation if there wasn't a crisis. Before the crisis, he was doing well, even now, despite the crisis, he is still doing relatively well. The government has used a measure that was very useful for Gorenje, because I have been in contact with the President of the Administration, Mr Bobinec, on several occasions, to subsidise the reduced working time that Gorenje used very well, and in the second phase, I think that the instrument of waiting for work or the labour fund, where it is true, has been used to wait for a considerable number of people to somehow fall in this situation, when they order strongly, to burden the company. At the same time, these compensations were provided by the State during the interim period. Gorenje was successful in this period, I must say, in the call for development investment projects where, as Minister, I decided to increase the quota from EUR 50 million to more than EUR 100 million, even though it was envisaged to draw these funds from the European Structural Fund by 2013 and 2014, 2015 with the rights of use, we decided to accelerate this as quickly as possible because of the difficult economic situation. As far as I am aware, today the results of the call for proposals are also published on the website of the technology agency, where Gorenje was, for example, successful at one of these calls, which is very important for development investment projects as the company's development tip is maintained. In addition, the State also purchased from Gorenje the long-term financial investment it had in Geoplin for consolidation, thereby achieving the synergies it needed. It is in the strategic interest of the State, Petrol and the energy companies to consolidate this ownership and society itself has come up with fresh money to develop its core activity. As for the other measures - I must say that I think it is important to act on the guarantee scheme. This instrument is now in operation. The auctions carried out by the Slovenian Investment and Development Society are ongoing. Banks are applying and there will be a lot of additional loans for businesses within this quota. However, a very important measure, based on the rebalancing of this budget, is the aid scheme of limited value, which is more envisaged for small and medium-sized companies, where the ceiling of the total amount of aid is EUR 500 000, which is less useful for large business systems or, I will say, more useful, less important to them in terms of the size of the business system. However, these funds will also be able to benefit these companies from the implementation of development projects for self-employment training companies and for the re-employment of groups of employees. If these large systems, such as Gorenje, were undoubtedly the radical horses of the Slovenian economy before the crisis, and even when these crises are over, thus, come into severe, insurmountable difficulties, the state has another instrument that allows for the law adopted by us in the National Assembly, I think even in October or November - I was still a Member - which also allows for the redemption of claims from these companies. This means that if, for example, we get into serious liquidity problems, and given that they have an unquestionably healthy core or a good business programme, we have the opportunity under that law through the SID bank to buy back the claims of these companies and thus ensure that they survive this crisis as successfully as possible. For the time being, as I have said, and as I have been in regular contact with many company directors, the President of Gorenje administration, for example, ensures that the business system is stable, that their orders have decreased substantially, as well as all others, so that they have not lost their market share; in some markets they have even acquired it because competitors are still in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u282	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u283	Dear Minister Matej Lahovnik, I hope that this direction is correct, as you said, that as a country you have purchased the Geoplin energy system from Gorenje. This is a sign that there will actually be a solution for those 450 people who are already on the stock market, that they may even come back to work. I also ask about Mura: Why was this step not made in Mura? The Prime Minister himself promised in May that he would go talk to Mura, and we know for ourselves that he has not yet gone, except that the Mura representatives are coming here to the government. Such a solution may also save this pomurian giant, who is also a very important member of Slovenia. We know that if Mura fell, it would be like a nuclear bomb dropped from Lendava to Maribor. We all have to be aware of that. I am not specifically satisfied with all the answers, so, Mr Minister, I propose that a debate be held in Parliament on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u284	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Bezjak's Member of Parliament to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the State Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 15 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Bevk will now ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. Over the past few years, our cousins from Australia have repeatedly raised the issue of an agreement to avoid double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and Australia. Slovenia has been a party to such a convention since 1991. Thirty-three conventions have so far entered into force, unfortunately there is no agreement with Australia. According to the Australian authorities, there are just over 20,000 of our cousins on this continent. The Slovenian encyclopedia, however, estimates their number to thirty thousand. Our relatives have raised this issue several times, last time in early July at a meeting of the Council of the Government of Slovenia for Slovenians around the world. The existence of a legal void is most affected by the Slovenians living in Australia, as their income is much more taxed than it would have been if such an agreement existed. The conclusion of a bilateral agreement on the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and Australia would also contribute to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to strengthening cooperation between the countries in the field of economy, which is only in the initial stages. Untapped opportunities in the large Australian market must be an additional guide for removing barriers to fruitful cooperation. I am giving the Minister of Finance Dr. France Križanič an initiative to re-examine, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the willingness of the Australian side to conclude an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and Australia. I would like to thank Mr. Minister Krizanič in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u287	Thank you so much for asking me this question. We have prepared the following reply: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposed in 2007 a diplomatic note to the Australian side the conclusion of an agreement to avoid double taxation of income and property between Australia and Slovenia. From the Australian side, we have received a response that shows that the development programme for the Australian network of agreements on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property is aimed at countries that are key economic partners in Australia. This objective is also pursued by the involvement of the Australian authorities. The Ministry of Finance has so far and will, in future, in all contacts with the Australian responsible authorities, advocate the conclusion of that agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u288	Thank you. Now Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: What are the powers and tasks of the Organised Crime Unit or the Department for the Fight against Organized Crime?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u290	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u291	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! Organised crime units shall plan, direct, monitor and directly carry out criminal investigations in the field of organised crime, in particular in the field of illicit drugs, extreme violence and criminal associations, and carry out other tasks under the laws, regulations or orders of the chairman. This means that they are also involved in the investigation of other crimes where the chairman considers that this is necessary. On police administrations, the tasks of criminals shall be assigned to their immediate superiors, taking into account the nature of police work, the experience and knowledge needed by criminals to carry out certain tasks, as well as the human resources and other capacity to carry out the task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u292	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you. Maybe more precisely why I'm asking that. We know that on 2 July, a hearing was held by SDS President Janez Janša, on suspicion of the crime of issuing classified information. Let us let it be whether what you said a year ago was a secret, because the legislation defines classified information as a fact and a means of public security, defence, foreign affairs or the intelligence and security activity of the State and a quote on a problem that will not be solved for a long time, there is certainly no data that would compromise the security of this country. In view of the above, I am interested in: In which of the above-mentioned powers, which you have stated or the task of this group, is the case, given the fact that the hearing was carried out by the head of the organised crime group. Not to mention the fact that the criminals did not move until after you made your own public statement several times that it was a crime of confidentiality. In my opinion, this is pressure on the police, although you probably didn't order any of this directly yourself. And I want to know: Is the opposition in general organized crime for you? We are an organized criminal society, while some proceedings against some truly organized stories, such as the Physicotherapy Chamber or something like that, do not take place. And that's all: Did the criminal do his job right, or did he overstep his powers? Is the Organised Crime Group, if this is its task, already hearing ministers, including you who spoke at the government meeting, which was broadcast to the public because it was supposed to be closed to the public? Is this going to be done by this group or how is it going to be?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u294	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I have already pointed out several times that I am not giving instructions to the police regarding the performance of specific operational tasks. My colleagues in the SDS probably don't listen to me because they come from their own experience in running the previous government mandate. Before these laws in force in Slovenia, they are all the same, whether they are ministers of this government or ministers of the former government, or whether they are parents of any of the ministers of this government. We're all the same, and the police will treat everyone the same way. And she's already proved that. However, as far as your additional question is concerned, I have already explained in the first part, and once again I explain that the mere fact that the case is being dealt with by the organised crime department does not mean that it is a suspicion of organised crime. Individual police administrations set up departments for organised crime, general crime, economic crime and crime. They are led by criminals with many years of experience and necessary expertise. The heads of the criminal police sector shall take into account a number of circumstances in the allocation of cases, both in the field of work and in the availability or availability of individual units. Although I cannot talk about a particular case, I believe that the persons responsible at the Ljubljana Police Administration have decided to allocate the resolution of the matter according to the necessary experience, knowledge and human resources and other ability to perform the task. Once again, the mere fact that the investigation is being conducted by the organised crime department does not mean that there is a suspicion of organised crime. Your special question about whether I have been questioned myself is, on behalf of the others, I cannot speak, because I have no operational data, and I can tell you that criminals have also had an informative conversation with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u296	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u297	The Minister's response would suggest that the organised crime group does not have much work to do, so that it can also deal with other matters, given what you have said is that it is also dealing with organised drug crime and so on. I am sure that they have more than enough employment if we are still talking about cops being too small, but the obvious burdens are not enough in this area to do anything else. I'm glad we're all the same before the law. At the same time, you did not answer me whether you had been questioned about the government's meeting, which was broadcast to the public. We'll probably find out in the future. I would, however, like to say that I am not satisfied with the Minister's response to the debate on the Minister's response, in accordance with Article 246. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u298	Thank you. On the proposal of Mrs Jerajeva to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to her question, the State Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 15 July, in the framework of the votes. Lucky Friend will also ask the Minister of Home Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. At the outset, I would like to say that there will be no mistake in not doubting in the Slovenian National Party your professionalism, principle and principle, but in relation to the sceptical response you gave me in connection with the General Navigation, I ask you here in public: Did the police also take a look at Attorney General Barbara Brezigar because she is in fact aware of the conflict of interest also by the police? Barbara Brezigar also received an appeal that she rejected. What's this all about? The fundamental principle in the execution of the sale of State property is the principle of repayment laid down in the Public Finance Act 80.b. That Article expressly provides that the financial and real property of a State or municipality shall not be deducted free of charge. However, only subject to the conditions laid down by the Public Finance Act shall be repaid. 8. 6. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted under "confidential" a decision to transfer this share to the Court of Justice in the absence of financial resources and in order to provide compensation to victims of war violence. On the same day, on the same day, a notary record was drawn up in the office of the Minister, Mr Bajuk, and on the same day, I stress that it was concluded that this was transferred to the said company and that the Republic of Slovenia, by this contract, gives up its business share of the General Navigation at the level of so much and so appropriate authority. Mr Kos notes that these funds were not deliberately spent and that they were more than just two applications or criminal charges. The findings so far attest to some extent to your allegations and we confirm to you that several criminal charges have been received at the Koper Police Administration. You answer me that, just two. I would like to know whether all that I am telling you, the law as well as the decree on the divestment programme of the state stake, which lays down the conditions for the General Navigation to be sold, adopted on 22.12., is a null and void document. And one more thing I would like to ask you about: If this is the case, why do we adopt laws? And if the Government has infringed, in accordance with that legal arrangement, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has also established a programme for the sale of the financial share if it has violated all of this where the responsible persons are? I wonder: Will you now and today, when I tell you this, execute the prosecution? I'm asking you nicely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u300	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Apparently, it's on the opposition's side at all, some global misunderstanding of what the Minister of the Interior is doing and what he's not. I don't run or prosecute. This is done by law enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities, and the case is later brought before the court. You've already asked me a question about General Navigation. I've given you some explanations that I can give you as Minister of the Interior. The fact that two criminal charges have been received, a crime of abuse of position or rights and that the police have been informed of the complaint and have also been informed by the District Attorney's Office in Cyprus. Operational data on how the investigation is being conducted cannot be disclosed to you because I am not competent or aware of them because I cannot be informed of the operational procedures. The procedure shall be directed by the State Prosecutor's Office and shall also be responsible for the provision of all clarifications relating to the course. There is no way I can give you legal classifications or assessments of what is, what is not and what will be found in this process. However, I can confirm once again that the police in the forecasting process are addressing several sets of crimes related to the general economic society and other related legal persons. In view of the local competence and direction of the forecasting procedure by the competent state prosecutors, the Police Administration of Koper and the Police Administration of Ljubljana deal with individual cases in cooperation with the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission. More than that I cannot explain to you, I can only ensure that the competent authorities are doing all they can.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Police Act, Minister 2.a states in Article 2: "The Minister may request a report, data and other documents relating to the performance of the police. The Chief of Police must report regularly to the Minister and at his special request on the work of the police, on all important issues in the field of work. The Minister gives the police appropriate and mandatory instructions for work. The Minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks within the limits of their competence and to take certain measures and report thereon." Article 22: "The police shall inform the public of matters from their field of work so as not to harm their work. The data and notices of work referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be provided by the Minister, the Director-General of Police and the persons empowered by the Minister-General or the Director-General of Police." This is the biggest damage to social property in Primorska. I would like to warn you that he is part of this criminal organization, we have presented an organogram to you, including the former minister. It's 2 million alleged bribes. I would ask you nicely if there is political will, principle, principle and honesty in your department to take this problem seriously. Of course, we will not agree to this by transferring the case from the General Police Administration to the Police Administration of Ljubljana, as it was done. We will also not agree with the fact that when the Court of Auditors is seriously working on this, the police are giving flat-rate answers. And we will not agree that you are sweeping all of this under the carpet, even because the leaders, representatives or political representatives of the now ruling political parties are involved in these unusual affairs. I'm not gonna name anyone, because until someone's guilty, accused, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not guilty. Please, if you can look seriously at the depth of this problem so that we do not wash this dirty laundry in international courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u304	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u305	Dear Member! The task of the Minister of the Interior is to direct, control, and organise the police, but not to direct or interfere with specific operational procedures. Really, you're right, I can request a report, and I did, given your question. I answered you first in writing, second in writing today. That's the information I'm allowed to know as Minister, and that's the information I can pass on to you. But from the answer I gave you in writing and verbally, the police are conducting serious procedures in this regard and being directed by the State's Attorney's Office. Of course, things can't be solved overnight. I can only assure you, as Minister, that the police have all the necessary conditions to work professionally, independently, effectively and that the law is followed to the last letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u306	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Friend? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again for your word. As has already been said, it is the biggest damage to state property in Primorska. Slovenia is no longer a maritime state because we donated the only Slovenian shipowner to a foreigner, Mr Döhle. The damage is substantial, material. But what's most painful is that this gentleman has swept all our sailors, Captain, officers off the land. There's very few of them still on our ships. Because I believe that I will not receive an appropriate response in the future, and because I believe that there will also be silence in this cabinet on this matter, I demand that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that the National Assembly is voting on this and that we reach the bottom of the matter before the domestic courts decide on this. This is because of the connections, including the involvement of the courts here. There are very obvious cases where the President of the Court and his husband are probably writing decisions at home. We've given you this, we've written to you, Your Honor, but still this same court is judging in these matters. It's an eccentric mess, if I may say so, including damage to state property, to the social trauma of individuals. Actions in the field of labour law have also been brought. And as a Coastal Member of the National Assembly, I cannot afford to see this matter not essentially resolved. Even if this legal order in the Republic of Slovenia does not find the good will to bring this to an end, we will insist that this matter is brought into international judgment. And let me tell you something else, I have repeatedly pointed out this place, and probably this interior ministry is not interested, it is a personal threat to me because I am allowed to talk publicly about this with others and because I am harassing and harassing you with a question. It won't stop me if anything happens to me. I have to say, you won't be surprised, I won't get hit by a car, and I won't turn off the road myself. I'll tell you that now, and the police don't take too much notice if you're actually making an official application. They told me to change the way I travel, always go on the other way to work. This was your advice, or advice, of your experts, a respected minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u308	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question, the State Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 15 July, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franc Jurša will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question, which is absent. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u309	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting is valid for ministers who are in the majority and for ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, you said that I would ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. However, it is an invitation to tender for the allocation of funds for the implementation of restructuring measures for sugar beet growers in the Republic of Slovenia. The reform of the sugar sector in the European Union has done great damage to Slovenia. In Slovenia, the production of sugar beet was discontinued and consequently the processing of sugar in the only factory we had in Ormož. As a result, the most damaged SV Slovenia was again, and especially Prlekija and Prekmurje, since this part produced the most sugar beet. Impacts from year to year for our statistical region line up. Sugar production stopped, there was oil, Radenska took over, and Radenska became impoverished, and things around the Terme Moravske spa were resolved, Pomurka fell, the situation in agriculture this year is catastrophic, and it is now Mura's turn. Can we all imagine together what this means for a space in the far northeast of the country? In Pomura we will have every fifth person in our region as unemployed. The situation is alarming, unsustainable. We are very pleased to refer mainly to the owners of companies that are supposed to save businesses. However, I must tell you that at the sugar factory in Ormož, the country had over 40% of its property. The then government soon sold its share to the Dutch company Konsum. Also, up to 25% of the share came from the Italian company, which, together with the Dutch very quickly during the sugar reform, also gave up sugar production in Ormož. We have to say that this is one of the best factories I've ever seen. Given that I am running out of time, I will first ask the question, How many beneficiaries have benefited from this call, and how many have been allocated? Why did the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development not invite beneficiaries to supplement their applications? Why did the invitation to tender close twice?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u310	Thank you. Would you like the Minister to answer you orally or in writing?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u311	I want a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u312	Okay, you'll get a written answer to that question. Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Water Act provides that the Government may establish a water protection zone and thereby protect against pollution a water body intended for public drinking water supply. In such a water protection area, inter alia, activities may be prohibited or restricted. 79. Article 79 of the same law provides that the holder of an agricultural holding which, in order to adapt to the measures of the water protection regime, has to have reduced income from agricultural activities must be provided with a replacement land and, if this is not possible, the person is entitled to compensation for the reduction of income from agricultural activities. The problem in practice arises mainly from the restriction and prohibition of agricultural activities on certain lands, which entails a number of economic and economic consequences. It even occurs that most agricultural land falls into such an area and that is why it is actually impossible to manage these farms. In such cases, therefore, a farmer should be compensated or replaced. According to the information I have, this is not done because water system managers are voicing that they have no possibility of recovering income from such economies or that they do not have the appropriate basis for doing so. Since water protection areas are mainly located on agricultural land, I refer the question to both ministers, both to the Minister of Environment and to the Minister of Agriculture. Question: What is the position of the ministries on this issue? Why are the provisions of the law not implemented in practice or, if they happen to be implemented somewhere else, why not? What do you think is the main problem? Has the Government adopted all the necessary sub-legislative acts necessary for the implementation of these provisions? Do you have any information as to how much funding was paid for such purposes in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u315	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member! Thank you for your question. I must say that water is also one of the strategic development priorities for Slovenia. Therefore, we need to treat water with special care. There is no doubt that water is one of the strategic natural resources and that it must also have the necessary protection. The primary tasks of the Ministry of Environment and Space are to ensure and maintain a good state of surface, groundwater and, of course, water resources. You know what the situation in Slovenia is because of intensive farming and also because of industry. Sometimes we have a problem with some water resources. In accordance with the Water Act, the Government has therefore also adopted seven regulations for different water protection areas, where there is also limited management of certain activities, including agricultural activities, particularly in those water protection areas where the strictest regime applies. That's the first order of business. You have rightly found that most of this is land that is also interesting for farming. OUR data represents three percent of farmland that is located in the first category of water protection areas. In this regard, I should like to say that we are preparing a regulation at the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is in inter-departmental coordination. This is a regulation on the compensation of income from agricultural activities, pursuant to Article 79 of the Water Act, which states that if the Government designates an area as a water-protection area, the farmer acting in such an area shall, of course, have the right to compensation. But, of course, there are more options. One option is to replace agricultural land, and another option is to transform it into organic farming, which does not normally burden such water protection areas. That is why we have also set up different previous periods, such as manure, manure. I must say, there is no transitional area here. While for plant protection this is said to be a variety of fertilisers and other means, this transitional period has expired this year. Despite the fact that these Regulations in 2006, 2007 were and were aware that this situation would arise when farmers would also have to be provided with an adequate compensation. As I said, in the form of new agricultural areas. Here I must say that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture to respond in this work. You know that the Agricultural Land Fund is supposed to lack such land, but I do know that there are certain analyses here, studies on how we can also provide compensation through this. The second option, as I said, is organic, biological farming, which could also be supported by the Ministry of Agriculture. And the third option is that when nothing comes into play, it's a cash refund. I am counting on this regulation to be adopted in the autumn by the Government, but it is expected to enter into force already this year. That's kind of what we have in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u316	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u317	Thanks again. I must say, I am pleased with your answer. It's really good. If I understand correctly when these preceding periods pass, you have in intersectoral coordination how this will be resolved. And when this thing is done, it says, it won't be long now, it'll be done in the right way. And it is most likely that we will be able to discuss whether this is a good way or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u318	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u319	Your Honor, you said it right. It is the fact that we are preparing this Regulation on compensation for the reduction of agricultural income, is in cross-cutting coordination and I must say that there will be different options here. And, of course, you need to be studied. As I have said, I am counting on this regulation to be adopted in the autumn of the Government. However, the expiry date will be for this year. However, I must say that there have been actually different transitional periods, some that continue until 2012, such as this manure, the manure, and I must say that we have not been allowed since before, and we have already implemented these European directives, which are strict in this area. But we do know that this is still unfortunately happening somewhere, so it will have to be tightened here. Of course, the prerequisite is that this Regulation is adopted. There has been enough time in the past, given that seven regulations have been adopted since 2006 and the last in 2008. I don't know why they didn't do it in a coordinated way. However, it is true that this Regulation is rather difficult, it is not simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u320	Thank you. Ms Renata Brunskole, Minister of Education is currently not in the Chamber. You're still gonna ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u321	I'll ask you a question, and I'd like to ask you an oral answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u322	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u323	Thank you. Hello, everyone! I am asking the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Most of the student homes in the Republic of Slovenia are publicly owned. At the same time, they are governed by a number of laws. Our wish is that in Slovenia we would not close the student homes, but would like to make the most of the different needs and give them the first content. There are 39 independent student homes in Slovenia. Some were returned to the church in the previous term following a rapid procedure, such as Ljubljana Tabor, Maribor, home at the former agricultural school, Ptuj, Murska Sobota and probably elsewhere. My desire is for the student homes to carry out their basic mission, that is to ensure that the students are accommodated. Due to the revised network of secondary schools in Slovenia, some of the capacity in the student homes remains untapped. As a result, this represents additional costs for the country which finances the activities of the student homes, and in the case of employees in these student homes it is uncertain that the number of jobs in the student home during the school year is questionable in relation to the standards governing the financing of such a home. Diagnostic homes for survival, that is, providing the necessary means to operate at home, looking for various forms and possibilities of various complementary activities at home, which are not necessarily related to the basic mission and the purpose of operating at home. The House must carry out its basic mission. There are more possible complementary activities at home that will continue to fulfil the basic mission. For example, the student homes would also be an institution for disabled school youth, as they are now such young people in specialised homes in Slovenia, far from home and their families. The municipalities, however, pay for such caregivers. If they were closer to home, they could be in the daily care, for example, of a student’s home. In Slovenia there is an increasing number of separate or single parent families and there is a need and desire of parents also for the day care of their children or that school children have the opportunity to have an afternoon meal of food, learning and other leisure activities in a student home. In larger study centres such as Maribor, Ljubljana, Celje and Koper, where else, we should consider how some of the capacities of existing functioning student homes could also be devoted to the needs of student accommodation. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] May I ask for further explanation of the question in a specific part?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u324	You only have five seconds left.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u325	I'm asking if there's a possibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u326	No, later. In the meantime, Mr. Secretary has joined us. Would you like to answer, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u327	Yes, of course, because this is the purpose of the question of the mission probably. Thank you. Diagnostic homes are an important area of education and education. I am pleased that I have received this question and that we can discuss it. I agree with the views expressed here. Actually, it's a pretty big problem. We are working on it in this way, as part of the debate on the network of schools, we are also discussing the issue of the network of student homes. The problems are mainly that the student homes in some parts of Slovenia are empty or quite empty and help each other in various ways to survive. Even so, in larger cities, they acquire student cities at university centers. And so, in cooperation with the Ministry of Higher Education, we ensure that these homes continue to serve students in at least one part. Diagnostic homes are so specific that many propose to be defined in a specific law. But we don't decide at the Ministry for the time being. We are currently having a debate on the regulation of the status of student homes within the debate that we have also started, the law on financing and organising education and education. As the debate shows how it will proceed, we are only now in the beginning, depending on how we define ourselves in the end. But for now, we're not thinking about a special law in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u328	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This is exactly what I was interested in, which is also an initiative on several sides, and I have also seen the problem that student homes are not fully exploited at some point, and on the other hand, there may be shortages of cities in larger cities for students. I also wanted to commend you in some way, because the response from the field is also extremely positive in terms of your work and hearing that you are also giving great attention to young people. Also, the new law on financing education and education, which we have to deal with tomorrow in order for students to become members again of the boards of the institution, means one positive move, including the extra obedience to young people, because I think young people deserve it. Of course, I was particularly interested in what you have just told me in the student homes that you are not currently deciding on a special law on student homes. However, I propose that changes be made only when a network of student homes is created in Slovenia in connection with the network of secondary schools and we will be able to find out what the needs for student accommodation facilities are and what are the possibilities of a partial change in the destination of students' homes. I would like to encourage this debate in order to make the most of the student homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u330	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u331	Thank you, Vice President. Exactly what was said is our purpose and our thought. We wanted to, although some of the student homes had only seven students, we did not want to act too quickly because we also have a regional development and a whole network of schools in mind. Only when we get an idea of what we can do, what we need to do in particular areas for regional development, if it is linked to a network of schools, especially secondary and higher schools, will we also propose measures and implement them in the field of student homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u332	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will now ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u333	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Dear Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal. The Ministry of the Interior has asked the Government to purchase 5 new apartments in Ljubljana. The value of buying three and a half two-bedroom apartments is estimated at EUR 750,000. The application for approval of the purchase of dwellings was submitted at the end of June. The government must formally place purchases in the country's 2009 annual real estate acquisition plan and this purchase has not yet been foreseen in the current approved plan. The Ministry wants to buy 5 apartments to turn over police officers for official purposes. Everything is understandable and necessary to this end. I wonder, however, given that we heard this April from Members of the ruling Social Democratic Party that, on the initiative of the Member, they stated that out of a total of 3,167 apartments owned by the state, there are as many as 927 apartments, half of them in Ljubljana. Dear Minister, I ask you. Why does the Ministry of the Interior ask the Government to purchase five new state-owned dwellings in that amount, EUR 750,000, but according to data from the Government of State-owned property, there would be as many as 724 unoccupied apartments in early June? I wonder whether of these dwellings, most of which are in Ljubljana, there are indeed five that would be suitable for the needs of the Ministry of the Interior and would save the Ministry quite a bit of money during the financial and economic crisis. So, I ask you: Why do you need to buy new five apartments, with all the empty apartments that the Government owns? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u334	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u335	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. The Ministry of the Interior manages office apartments intended for broadcasting due to the official needs of the police. The apartments are located in the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Given the nature of the work and the distance from the permanent residence of police and police officers, it is only right that the police help them solve the housing problem, and in many cases the social pressures of police officers are also addressed. This is what the Ministry of the Interior wants to do to help its employees, so that their working and living conditions are as good as possible. The Ministry of the Interior will transfer all permanently unoccupied dwellings on the basis of a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of this year to the use or ownership of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the Ministry of the Interior will practically not manage any unoccupied housing. In addition, none of these apartments are located in Ljubljana. In 2009, a total of sixty-six applicants applied for the award of service flats in the General Police Administration and in the Ljubljana Police Administration, which have official residences in Ljubljana. There was only one apartment available in Ljubljana. The police also show a great need for employment in the coastal area or the Koper Police Administration, as there are many more job seekers in the area than the current availability of housing. Since the need for housing by police workers in the Ljubljana area is very high, the Ministry of the Interior has proposed to the Government, according to the financial resources available, that it purchases five apartments in Ljubljana. The Ministry of the Interior will provide housing purchases exclusively from the funds collected from rentals paid by employees and from purchases for sold apartments. The Ministry of the Interior, together with the two civil servants, the Ministry of Defence and the Government Housing Commission, will carry out joint purchases of service apartments on the basis of the law and regulation on the real estate of the State, the provinces and the municipalities. With the total purchase of apartments, all three operators will achieve more favourable purchasing conditions, and by buying at joint locations, there will be long-term savings in the maintenance of apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u336	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u337	Thanks for the answer. I'm not quite sure if I fully understand what you're trying to tell me. I believe that the needs are great and I believe that the needs are also on the coast, but the issue was mainly about dwellings in Ljubljana and the data that exist on your websites or on the government's websites, where there are seven hundred and twenty-four unoccupied dwellings. Now I didn't understand this answer because you're always talking about the need to buy new five apartments, because these apartments are not supposed to be owned by the Ministry of the Interior, but they are owned by a country where, of course, the Ministry of the Interior also belongs in some way. I therefore wonder once again whether, within this resource, the free dwellings held by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Ljubljana cannot be found five apartments dedicated to the workers of your ministry, which, of course, I support and we are perfectly logical and clear, I do not oppose. However, we do not care about this information, which we receive on the government's websites, about undistributed housing, in the context of new housing for the individual ministry, is somehow not going together. So once again, I ask: Is it not possible, within the free dwellings that the Government has and is at its disposal, to provide these vacant apartments for those workers waiting for these apartments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u338	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u339	Thank you very much. If I wasn't clear enough. The Ministry of the Interior can give its workers only those apartments it owns. As it is said, there is a great demand right in Ljubljana - 56 applicants were, the ministry had only one apartment available. The bottom line is that all the rents that come from these rentals that we have, all the purchases that we get from selling individual apartments, are designed in our budget just so that we can buy new apartments if the need arises. The Ministry does not have enough housing in Ljubljana that could be allocated to police officers to alleviate their housing and social problems. Therefore, because of the fact that he has the means of purpose that he cannot spend on anything else, he has decided to purchase five apartments under conditions, as I said before, so together, in joint locations, so that this is really as convenient as possible to give them to the five applicants for these apartments. I don't think there's any way I can be more clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u340	Thank you. Mr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, ministers, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! We can probably agree that when transport security was moved from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport, it moved from repression to prevention. I think that one of the main tasks of the Ministry of Transport is transport safety. It is said that all road users would act as closely as possible in accordance with traffic regulations, in order to minimise the speed of driving, so that the number of accidents would actually be reduced as much as possible. And the whole range of actions, which the Ministry of Transport also through its constituent authorities, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, is being set up in this direction. This is in the direction of greater traffic safety. On the big jumbo posters, we see inscriptions where the Minister of Transport warns with slogans that we must be careful when driving too fast, that we must not cause acts that threaten us. And this is where this incident of driving your service vehicle happens, with you guys, after Sunday afternoon with blue lights, where it also appeared from the videos and the media that this ride was slightly different. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: How do you personally assess your conduct on this occasion? Would it not be in the protection of the Ministry of Transport and also the protection of your personal integrity at least worthy to offer the President of the Government his resignation for such an act, if you think you do not have to give up for such an act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u343	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, Dr. Peter Verlich. The Ministry of Transport, at the time of my acquisition of the Ministry, did not have an employee driver for protocol transport, so I decided that we would choose our contractor for transport to the appropriate invitation to the General Secretariat of the Government for protocol transport in the State Administration. That's how we conducted the public contest ourselves. On the basis of the tenders received, we are 23. 12. Contract with the company Protocol d.o.o. from Ljubljana, which has many years of experience in carrying out these transports. Your government was also driven by this same chauffeur, who was driving your minister, Dr. Milan Beast. Despite his contract to carry out protocol transports with his vehicles or ministry vehicles, I was mainly driven by Audi A6 LJ 51-7JT, which you bought back in your time, during your government. And that's how I define my behavior. It was a mistake. My mistake was to trust the driver who was already driving the minister before me to know the rules. And my mistake was that I didn't know the rules myself. Also, as a minister, you sign many documents that are adopted on the basis of certain regulations that you know in graves, perhaps not all in detail, and trust in your fellow workers is crucial. Otherwise, I wouldn't need them, or I could have done everything myself, and I could have driven myself. In fact, this raises a question to me, why do we even have ministers' right to drive? I suppose it's because we're driven by a professional who's far more driven than we are, who knows the rules, if he has experience, at least four years old from this area, that he knows what he can and what he can't. Of course, that doesn't excuse me, not for a moment. But I was expecting, trusting that there was something that I could and could not know. Because of this mistake of mine, I've been thinking about all the options. We also discussed this with the prime minister or prime minister. I have decided that I will take responsibility for the offence, that I will pay all the penalties and that the budget will not suffer for this. This, of course, will not reduce or erase my mistakes. I learned a lot from that. This did not, of course, diminish my trust in fellow workers, but it primarily increased my vigilance and, of course, the fact that we have to sign a lot of papers every day, to do a lot of things, to drive around Slovenia, to do a lot of things during the day. Nevertheless, we are expected to know all the rules to the bone, and that is how I will act from now on. My responsibility in this regard is, of course, my responsibility. I am counting on taking on a sentence that will not be low, which means that the budget will not suffer, that I will be adequately responsible for what I have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u344	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Minister. The answer was sincere. Better than the one right after the event. Of course, however, there is only one taste, regardless of the fact that the ministers drive the drivers. But the driver wasn't in a hurry. You were in a hurry. If the driver is also making these decisions to arrive early because an immediate question can be asked, perhaps we could get on the road early. Whatever the case, it is good that it worked out as it did, because if there was an accident, the good news is that there was no accident, and I hope that none of the ministers would have an accident, and I hope that there would be no accident for the rest of us, then you probably wouldn't have thought about making this right and that things would be mixed under the rug. Nevertheless, as you know, in the past term, ministers and secretaries of state also had to offer and also went away for significantly minor offences, for substantially smaller statements in the public eye. But here I just think that this responsibility was greater. And I still think that in fact the offer of resignation in this case would be for credibility, including yours, the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u346	Thank you. You want an answer, Mr. Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Rudolf Petan, the next to raise the question of the Member of Parliament, will put it to the Minister of Home Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u347	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. My question concerns two ministries. To the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is not here today, and to the Minister for Home Affairs, because the topic is such that it goes across the border. But here's the thing. At the meeting of the most developed countries in Trieste last month, the host country, Italy, abolished the Schengen regime and began to control the Slovenian-Italian border at certain points, I think at all border crossings. She introduced a regime that used to be, but now it's gone. What attracted my attention, however, is that the marketing mayor Roberto Dipiazza and, of course, the mayor of Mila Nerio Nesladek also expressed the following that no one stopped them when they went to France and did not have to go to the column as it happened at Trieste. That's what Dipiaz said. And he called such police control at the border with Slovenia absurd, unnecessary use of resources and exploitation of people. This was also assessed by the mayor of the municipality of Milje Nerio Nesladek from an economic point of view and said that the State authorities should explain their reason for such a measure, since they would then be easier to bear. All too often, the word "safety" is misused for a variety of things, said the mayor. Now I'm asking both ministers. From the other person who is not here today, I expect an answer at the next meeting. The border controls are being carried out by the police. This is also done by the Italian police and the interlocutor is Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, an equal interlocutor with the Minister, who covers the police in Italy. However, since this is an interstate matter, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also responsible. I therefore ask the following question: The mayors of both Italian cities have protested against this way of working the Italian police, it is said that the Italian government, while our government has not done so, did not at least notice that I would express any protest that would be a little louder. The border was controlled only against Slovenia. And I want to know: why is this attitude towards this action by the Italian Government? It was also to some extent for the reputation of Slovenia, because the Italian government introduced a measure only against Slovenia. The meeting was indeed in Trieste, but if it is a security measure, terrorists can also come from the north or the west, not just from the east. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: Why was there no serious protest and opposition to this measure by the Italian Government at that time? But it went, I think for about a month. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u348	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u349	Dear Presidents and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. I'll answer my question. The Italian Republic has temporarily reintroduced internal border control, which is in accordance with the Schengen Borders Act. A similar measure has been introduced by the other Member States at least 80 times in recent years. Internal border controls will be carried out by Italy at all its border crossings, not only at the internal border with Slovenia, including with other countries, from 28 June to 15 July 2009. The competent Italian authorities shall carry out border controls on all road communications with the Republic of Slovenia. As a rule, there are no waiting periods, only if one of the vehicles is examined in more detail. The border inspection shall be carried out periodically at and at the time of entry into and exit from the Republic of Italy, sometimes only at the entry into Italy and occasionally by the Italian border control authorities at border crossing points with the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian police carry out internal border controls unchanged, as well as prior to the introduction of control by Italy. In doing so, the police do not record specialties. However, the police shall be informed of each other in the event that violations of the border crossing are detected. The Italian security authorities shall exercise control at all internal borders. However, the Austrian representative confirmed that control was also carried out at the border with Austria, but with different intensity and scope. The same situation is also at the border with Switzerland and France. The circular, however, provided the Italian security authorities with a starting point for control on all roads where border crossings in the past were also carried out at smaller ones. The circular also provides for priority entry controls and exit from Italy only if there are options, otherwise only observation and profiling are carried out. And if I squirm for a moment. Italy is reviewing the borders, all its borders, all its neighbours, not just Slovenia. This review shall be carried out with different intensity. From not performing it, to performing it only on exit or entry. According to information obtained from officials, the same is true at all other borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u350	Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u351	Thank you for your word. I was worried you'd answer me like that. But I don't doubt your words. You just got the information. In this case, it is a discriminatory attitude of one country, in this case Italy, which has the right to protect its internal borders and its interests. And another is if it hits the interests of another country. That's something else. In view of the fact that Slovenia or the Slovenian government or ministers did not protest, such as the Italian mayors, and in fact this interpretation was accepted simply as being so. I would even say that up to some limit of deception, I do not claim that on your part, Italy exercises control over everyone, is said throughout the length of its external borders. Because the mayor of the market said and it is also written that on Monday afternoon at 15.55 he crossed the Italian border with France to Ventimiglia and called from there because no one stopped him there, as was the regime on the Slovenian-Italian or Italian-Slovenian borders. It is said that at Ventimiglia, as far as I know, this is one of the major transitions between Italy and France, I think the biggest transition is that it is bigger than everyone under Mont Blanco, but there was no control there. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] No one stopped them. There was no special column. [[...]] And he protested with the Italian government. The mayor of the market. I therefore ask: Why has no one protested from the Slovenian government, at the same time it is our interest? Last but not least, this can happen again with any other country, because they will say because the Slovenians do not protest. We can start a Schengen regime against them whenever we want. That's what this is about. That's why I'm asking, or I wouldn't even ask. I will also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Maybe he's more concerned with him than you are. [[...]] But still, it is the reputation of Slovenia and perhaps future action. At the French border in Ventimiglia, this was not controlled, said the mayor of the market himself. That's why you [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u352	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u353	I understand, Mr. Ambassador, what are you asking me? But I don't know if you've listened to my answer. The temporary establishment of internal borders under the Schengen Code is a normal procedure that has been used by Member States for many years. This procedure has been used more than 80 times. I also said that there is a different intensity of border inspection and people crossing the border. From not being examined, to being examined at the time of entry or exit. The same is true of all the borders Italy also has with the other members. It is not true that Italy has introduced internal border control only with Slovenia. It has announced it against all its neighbours, otherwise this measure would not make sense. And he also executes it at all its limits. We have received these explanations from the competent authorities of those countries that can give us these answers. Apparently, it happened by accident that the mayors at the border with Slovenia were examined and not at the other borders. In another case, it could also happen the other way around, since the police themselves judge when a certain examination is carried out and at which limit. As it is said, checks are carried out at all borders, and not only with Slovenia, or are not carried out at a certain time. Depends on the police's operational evaluation. At least from the point of view of the police, we have not seen any irregularities which should have led us to address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In our opinion, there was no reason for any formal protest. Otherwise, from an external point of view, this explanation will have to be provided by colleague Žbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u354	Thank you. Mr László Göncz will now ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I apologize to the Minister-designate. Exceptional transport, which cannot be affected by local community legislation in force, often causes much damage to local roads. The fact is that maintaining these roads and much of the investment burdens the congregation. Some municipalities also point out that emergency transports cause considerable material damage even under the asphaltic layer, that is, in the depth of the road, where water and sewerage networks take place in many cases. Article 51 of the Law on Public Roads lays down the procedure for granting State licences and compensation in the event of extraordinary transport, but that provision does not, in the opinion of the affected municipalities, protect the local community. Among other things, the law does not require the consent of the local community. As a result, in municipalities where such extraordinary transports are recorded during different periods of time, they are justifiably indignant, since the protection and protection of their property due to these inconsistencies is not possible. That is why I ask the Minister: Are amendments to the Law on Public Roads planned in the sense that the property of local communities, in particular local roads and infrastructure could be more protected? In doing so, I refer to the agreement given by the local community in the event of emergency transport, where the State and the municipalities could agree correctly before granting the authorisation on the amount of possible compensation which could thus be determined in proportion to the damage caused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u356	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u357	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member Gönch! Emergency road transport poses a potential threat to operators and to the environment and, most significantly, to the road infrastructure under which extraordinary transport is carried out. However, they are extremely important for the domestic and European economies, so their presence is, unfortunately, inevitable. The applicable provisions of the Public Roads Act, mentioned by you, stipulate that the State and municipal transport licence shall be issued by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which shall at the same time inform the municipalities through which the emergency transport is to be carried out. In such a case, the municipalities shall have a proportionate share of the reimbursement for the emergency transport of municipal roads, determined in accordance with the Emergency Refund Regulation adopted by the Government in September 2008. On the implementation of extraordinary transport operations taking place on municipal roads, the municipalities shall be informed by the Directorate as the authorisation holder. Operational problems arise due to an incomplete database of road data on municipal roads, making it impossible for the issuer to assess the appropriateness of the planned transport route. I believe that the obligation of the municipalities to ensure the completeness of the information bases in the field of road infrastructure, on the basis of which the issuer will then be able to make a substantive decision on the appropriateness of the proposed route or route of transport. The issue of additional authorisations for emergency transport would constitute a new administrative obstacle, and it is also contrary to the European guidelines which state that the authorisation should be issued in one place. In May 2009, the Ministry of Transport began to prepare amendments and supplement legal acts in the field of emergency transport in order to remove administrative, logistical and other obstacles and to bring this area into line with European law and best practices in the field of emergency transport. However, the protection of road infrastructure, irrespective of its ownership status, is the main objective of the emerging regulation. With amendments to the rules on emergency transport, we will propose a reduction in the permissible axle loads of vehicles carrying out extraordinary transport, thereby reducing injuries on road and also on municipal road infrastructure or municipal infrastructure. In the context of the proposed amendments, a more competent authorisation holder shall also be given with regard to the definition of the transport route. The use of roads on which axle pressure and mass limits are imposed should only be allowed for emergency transport if this represents the only communication from origin to the purpose of emergency transport. In the process of amending and supplementing the Emergency Transport Reimbursement Regulation, which, on the basis of individual criteria, sets the amount of extraordinary transport reimbursements and provides flat-rate compensation for damage to road infrastructure. The amendments and additions to both acts currently under discussion are also transmitted to the Association and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Amendments to and additions to emergency transport legal acts take place through our existing legislation. This year's government work programme provides for an amendment to the Law on Public Roads, whose additions should also include systemic regulations in the field of municipal roads, where it will be possible to harmonise this, as you rightly point out, a burning area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u358	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u359	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 6. you have performed quality acquisition of the first medium wheeled armored vehicle 8X8 or better known by the Ministry of Defence in Scotland - Patricia. At that time, your Secretary of State said, "Today is an important day because it is starting a new period of development of the Slovenian Army, as Patricia is the beginning of the creation of a medium-powered battalion." And he goes on to say, "In this vehicle, the Slovenian soldier will be safer in future military operations." On 3.7.2009 the Slovenian Army took over the first 13 Patria. The enthusiasm of the Slovenian Army was extraordinary and only statements by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which went in the direction of superlatives, were observed in the media. Dear Minister, I ask you: Why were the patriarchs rejected a few months ago, and what was done at that time to pass such a high-quality test? Is the supply of 35 more armoured men foreseen in 2009 in accordance with the contract signed by the then Minister Erjavec whether there will be any derogations? As the quality of the armoured men was, in my opinion, another last excuse to prevent the purchase of eight-wheelers, I wonder whether, at last, by the current government, including the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Cvikl, who, in the previous term, has been more than evidently misleading to the public, has cast doubt on the fragility of Patria's armoured men. Madam Minister, I have read your interview in the Saturday annex of Del and I have felt your embarrassment or separation between the political function and your expertise, which no one can doubt for sure. I am also looking at this in a way that is the fact that we have entered into the NATO alliance, that one of the goals is to establish two medium-sized battalion fighting groups by 2012 - this decision has been taken not least by the government of Rope - that it is necessary to ensure the safety of our soldiers and that, if we want to have an effective and highly trained army, it is also appropriate to equip it. So I ask you: What is the main reason for the delay in taking over medium armored wheel vehicles 8 times 8 brand Patria? Is the reason for the delay in taking over really the failure to meet the manufacturer's quality standards or is it one of the consequences of the lack of funding which has further reduced the Ministry of Defence in the last balance by 6.4%? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u360	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u361	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I must say that your question could be answered very quickly, but it could be answered several years. This is a project for which money will have to be provided and money has already had to be provided from 2008 onwards. And if we remain within the framework of a treaty as it is now, by 2013, a share of the funds for this project should be confirmed by both the Government and the Parliament by 2013 each year. But since you also asked me about the problem of taking over these vehicles and whether the quality of these vehicles was really so problematic when we took over the first thirteen vehicles in November and December 2008, I must tell you that there were indeed many shortcomings on these vehicles at the time, some of which were more difficult in nature, but some were more procedural. But it is good to explain to you what these shortcomings were and also that the contracting authority or supplier then eliminated all these shortcomings, and the contracting authority found in May and June that the vehicles meet the required conditions for admission in the contract. Among the shortcomings that have been addressed, for example: the operator supplied the appropriate night driving equipment, namely on the vehicles last December; in relation to the protection of the vehicle, the supplier provided the appropriate clarifications concerning the carried out tests of the mine protection of the vehicle in particular; two expert opinions from scientific institutions, South Africa and Finland were obtained; the procedural and substantive adequacy of these guarantees was also verified in relation to the contract concluded; the contracting authority carried out further reviews of the production documentation with the manufacturer and subcontractors, according to Finland, the re-coloration of the external vehicle protection panels and the modified technical procedures for the dyeing of the vehicle; the anti-resistance application was also modified; the technical improvement of the hydraulic doors was carried out; the missing documentation was submitted for the production of the C4I and the amended technical procedures for the maintenance of the vehicle. From this you can see that some of the shortcomings were indeed technical errors and shortcomings, i.e. missing equipment, but some were procedural matters, the right instructions, including coordination of the issue of mine protection, are said to be whether the standards submitted correspond to or not. We have agreed with suppliers on some further improvements to be made on all vehicles to be delivered to the Slovenian Army in the future, in particular improvements relating to the personal safety of the members of this vehicle. You have already mentioned that this project was also adopted as a state project many years ago, in 2004, when the National Assembly and the Slovenian Parliament decided to build three motorised battalions and of these two medium-sized battalions, all on platform eight times eight. The fact is that at the moment we will not be able to provide funding for such types of vehicles. However, my government understood that it must meet parliamentary requirements and expectations, so it provided 26 vehicles in the first balance for this year. The assessment was that the supplier would not be able to prepare, properly prepare all the vehicles scheduled for the contract last year, that was 13 and 26 more for this year. That's 39. In the second balance, there are still 13 vehicles in the documents. If you wish, I will explain one more matter to you on Thursday, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, those who are here and those who are not there will decide whether the funds for this project will be provided or not when you decide on a different balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u362	Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u363	Thank you very much for your answer. This raises the question logically: Will there then be a reduction in the number of medium wheeled armoured vehicles, as defined in the contract, and what is actually the basis for reducing the number of vehicles? I recall a statement not long ago when Chief Steiner made it clear that the resolution adopted in 2004 and supplemented later was valid, and at this point he does not see the possibility of reducing the order of vehicles 8 times 8. In fact, there is no basis for this measure. The National Assembly must adopt a new resolution, new guidelines followed by the Ministry of Labour. Of course I'm talking right now. If you do not come to the National Assembly by amending this resolution. I understand the crisis in which Slovenia is in this moment. However, I would understand better and easier if the funds they take from you, I see, in your voice, felt that you do not agree with this reduction in resources from the military's core development programmes, which would shift to items that would alleviate the crisis and would be allocated to citizens and citizens. But I have a feeling it's not like that. And it's not just me who feels that way. Today, for example, we passed a law on one-off compensation. We've earmarked 15 million, but you've actually been cut off by a complicated budget. Armoured 8 times 8 this moment is good, weapons are ok., a finding of corruption, and therefore the basic question is asked: Madam Minister, do you also think that the Patria affair, which was produced just before the elections by the then opposition, was the greatest strain of citizens in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u364	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Two things you were actually asking me. First, what will happen in the future with this project, whether we have a basis for it. But you also want a comment on the affair itself before the elections. I cannot answer this third part of your question, because we would need more information, which may also now be successfully collected or in any way already collected in the prosecution, in the Slovenian police and in the relevant investigative bodies. So I can't talk about it. I would like to tell you that, already due to the fact that vehicles were not able to be taken over in 2008 due to poor quality, there was a delay in the delivery of these vehicles this year. As a result of this, it will be necessary to amend the contract, i.e. the annex to the contract, to change the delivery deadlines, and longer delivery deadlines will be required. Given that we will only be able to do what was envisaged for last year in this year's financial year, 13 vehicles could be paid if you confirm this in Parliament. That's actually how we're gonna do what we should do last year. However, the entire package of vehicles scheduled for this year shall be carried forward to the following year or to the following years. As regards the preparation of the future budget, which will be the 2010 and 2011 budget, I must say that at the Ministry of Defence we are obliged to take care of the contracts in force. We are also responsible for the implementation of those decisions and those resolutions which have been adopted in this Parliament. We will therefore follow the resolution on the medium- and long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but we are aware that in the same periods of time it will not be possible to obtain all the funds provided for there. It is said that our negotiations to be held with the supplier in the coming months will go in the direction of extending the delivery deadlines first. Secondly, they will go towards a reduced number of vehicles, but with regard to the reduced number of vehicles we will have to get a green light for this purpose in this Parliament. So we are preparing a new resolution, so-called SPRO, for which we will need your consent. And the third time. We need to negotiate a modified configuration, because the vehicles that have been entered into the contract do not correspond to the medium battalion fighting group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u366	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior will ask Mr Darko Menich a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u367	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Minister, Madam Member and, of course, fellow Members, a very nice greeting! Madam Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal. We know that police personnel are very lacking in the Republic of Slovenia and that many police officers are leaving this demanding job. I ask you: When and by what measures will you improve this situation? Will you strengthen the personnel force at the peripheral police stations? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u368	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for your question. Police are dealing with the human resources problem with the continuing recruitment of candidates for police officers, for the needs of police units at local level, that is at police stations. In view of the human resources problem, from 2007 onwards, instead of one, we will carry out two selection procedures for candidates of the police each year. On the basis of the last invitation to tender, it shall be effective from 1. Seven. 2009 with six months of training began 100 candidates for police officers of the border state. Candidates will complete training at the end of this year and then will be deployed to Schengen units. At the same time, about 100 police officers were transferred from Schengen units to district police stations. In the second half of the year, we intend to launch a new call for candidates for police officers, on the basis of which at least 100 new candidates for police officers would be employed at the end of the year. In addition to this, at the end of the year, education will be completed by the ninth generation of candidates for police officers, who count about 135 police officers. In the first half of 2010, a tenth generation of candidates for police officers, including about 190 police officers, will end up with education. All these officers will be deployed to the district police stations. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, which entered into force with 20. 6. For example, 2009, it allows for the re-establishment of a fixed-term employment relationship with retired police officers. In this way, the police will generally complete the jobs in which internal work is carried out, in particular at police stations. However, the re-establishment of the working relationship is not excluded for other works and tasks such as the protection of facilities. Employment of retired workers would, on the one hand, fill vacancies and, on the other hand, the number of police officers currently employed could be transferred to jobs where operational tasks are performed and retired police officers could be employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u370	Here's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u371	Thank you so much for saying that. Šostanj municipality is a municipality in the Municipality of Šostanj in northeastern Slovenia. Building of block 6 is underway. During this time, between 1,500 and 2,000 foreign workers will come to our congregation. How will the congregation successfully ensure the safety of citizens without a permanent police station without a permanent police presence? In fact, the municipality of Šostanj once had a police station. Can we get a police station in Scotland or at least a police department? What conditions must we meet? On this occasion, I would like to ask you, and I would also like to ask that the congregation of Šostanj asks for your help now. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u372	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u373	Thank you for your additional questions. At this point, it is worth noting that the police are also carrying out a different reorganisation of their work at the territorial level throughout Slovenia and at the general police administration. Your question is very appropriate. I'll pass it on to the officers at the General Police Administration, because it'll also be a matter of whether there are enough police stations or whether we need any new ones or not. The same is true of police administrations and their organisation. Your thought, the problem that's pointed out, I'll certainly move on. I believe that colleagues working in this area are also aware of this and will certainly give due consideration to whether the police office can satisfy the needs of public order and peace or not and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u375	Thank you very much. On today's issue, the Minister for the Environment and Space would touch on state spatial plans. Not only during your term of office, I think the problem is already very long, it takes a decade or more. I would say that the Ministry of the Environment and Space with its services in State Spatial Plans for the Construction of Roads is a "choklo" in procedures. Of course, this is not your fault, this is somehow obvious because in these months it has certainly not been possible to do anything special, and yet towards the end of the term we will probably also be judging this. In particular, see, already in 1995, 14 years ago, a study was carried out, a pre-study on the eligibility of reconstruction of road M10-8 Dravograd-Arja vas-Celje-Dobovec. I'd talk more about the part about Celje-Dobovec. The initiative for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for Action at the section of this road is G2-107, Šentjur - Dobovec, already submitted by Transport Minister 9. Seven. 2007 The initiative was well founded, based on many acts, studies and so on. However, see, the Minister of Environment and Space has provided the Government with a decision to start this work. It wasn't you, it was the former minister. 17. Seven. 2008 That means a year from now. Of course, I am talking about sections of Šentjur - Towns, 13 kilometers, Cities - Podplat, only 2 kilometers, Podplat - Rogata, 12 kilometers, and Rogatec - Dobovec, 7 kilometers. But we both know that you are quite a guest in this environment yourself, and I believe that you know this road very well and that after the completion of the road cross, it is probably one of the most important parts or one of the most important parts that will need reconstruction. So I ask you a question; I would like to have a relatively precise answer: What is the point of making these plans? Maybe it's the sections. And we both know what the situation is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u376	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u377	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you for the question. Greetings to the Members present. First of all, I would like to explain that it is the wrong expression when you use the term that the Ministry of Environment and Space is in these procedures, that this has been going on for decades. I have to say that this is not just a matter of the Ministry of Environment and Space, that this is a matter of very sensitive interventions. It's about interventions into space, for example, when it comes to building, I don't know, highways, fast roads or other roads, and of course any such intervention also causes a reaction in space. All state spatial plans that are coordinated in terms of, I don't know, environmental, transport, economic, that are appropriate, that they are also consistent with local communities, then these procedures can be run out relatively quickly. But if they get caught up in one of the articles here, we've got a long way to go. And we know of many cases where there is no agreement, so it is difficult to place a terrace. You need to know that in addition to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which only prepares, which is the drafter of the State Spatial Plan, many other state authorities are involved in these procedures. From ministries, municipalities and, of course, other institutions and other institutions. For this reason, I cannot agree that the Ministry of Environment and Space is a "choke". We essentially want to run all these procedures, we're looking for consensus. A lot of times, too, there are space regulators who just make their demands. Given that we are preparing 25 state spatial plans in the area of roads, I must say that this is a large number, all these interests must be included here. The Ministry of Environment and Space is not the only one that can ensure the development of the State Spatial Plan because there are several actors here. For this reason, we have also set up a special working group in the Government, which is preparing a law that would allow faster installation of infrastructure that is of particular importance to the country. This isn't just about roads, it's about remotes, you know what the problem is. It is also a railway that will need to be updated and quickly adopted by these State spatial plans. I can say that within fourteen days, the Government will consider the first information on these guidelines and then the accounts in September that the Government will already adopt the draft of this law, then also put it into the procedure in the National Assembly, where it will discuss what to do, in fact these State spatial plans in the area of infrastructure, which is of particular importance for the State, will be placed as soon as possible. With regard to specific issues, I must say that there are two concrete national spatial plans in this area. The first is the State Spatial Plan for the reconstruction of the main road from Šentjur to Dobovac. You correctly concluded that an initiative had already been launched in 2007; in September 2008 the Minister of Environment and Space began to draw up the State Spatial Plan. In last August, the guidelines were obtained in September and a variant proposal was already drawn up in February 2009. However, it should be known that the preparation of the State Spatial Plan has basically two phases. The first phase is to explore different variants and the second phase to determine the most optimal variant. And I have to say that now there's a proposal for variants. The mayors of these municipalities, I think it is Šentjur, Šmarje pri Jelšah, Rogaška Slatina and Rogatec, who have already been identified. No more detailed professional backgrounds and variant studies are now produced on this basis. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But I have to say, the contracting authority is the Road Administration. [[...]] I'd like you to give me an additional question so that I can go on with the specifics.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u378	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u379	Yes, of course, because I had a feeling that you wanted to tell me a lot more, and I thank you and I would really like to continue. And that's exactly what I'm going to say. I'm going to drop by to speed up the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u380	Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u381	Thank you for this opportunity you gave me. With regard to this State Spatial Plan, I can say that the public disclosure of the completed draft State Spatial Plan will take place somewhere in the middle of the following year. This is a complex process where many interests need to be reconciled. Once they are harmonised when it comes to public disclosure, a broad consensus has already been reached and I do not think that there should be a problem so that this state spatial plan could be adopted. Let me also say that in the framework of this State Spatial Plan there is also the Šmarje Oblast near Jelšah. Here was the first initiative to regulate this in the framework of municipal spatial plans, but it has turned out to be a better option to go into a state spatial plan, and it will also make it easier to implement the budget. The second spatial plan is for the out-of-war crossing of the main and main main railway lines, with the main road of Šentjur-Mestnje in Grobelno. I must say that in November 2008 the guidelines of the space regulators were obtained; in April 2009 the proposal was already drawn up with the most appropriate variants of the overpass and we somehow expect that in the spring - March 2010 it could also be a public decomposition of this complementary draft of the VAT and that the regulation could be adopted by the end of 2010, we are counting November 2010. As for the location of the connecting road Dramalje-Sentjur, we have agreed here, on the basis of a special arrangement between the municipality of Šentjur, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport, that it should be organised in accordance with the municipal detailed spatial plan. So I hope all these procedures run out and we catch these hands. However, as I say, I cannot agree that the Ministry of the Environment is a "choke". It's just a matter of sensitive interventions. You know that there are usually different interests here. But it is true that the Ministry of the Environment, as a contractor, is the one who has to take care of the dynamics so that things don't stop in drawers somewhere. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar, do you want to ask a question despite the absent Minister of Parliament? Please. Would you like a letter or an oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u383	Get up at the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u384	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u385	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister and to the Minister and to fellow Members and Members of Parliament. According to information from the media, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food signed a decision returning to the owner two dogs of the bulmastif breed. In 2006, these dogs brutally attacked and butchered a passing citizen who had been in hospital for the first year and for the last two and a half years due to the consequences of dog bites, working only four hours a day. The public is appalled and outraged over such an act by the minister. I ask: How much is human life worth to the minister and this government compared to the life of animals? Apparently, this government is more dangerous to the lives of dangerous animals than it is to the safety of humans. I'm asking you, when was the decision to return the dogs? When did the owner take over and take the dog out of the shelter? It is clear from the media that someone from the Ministry called the dog owner that he could have taken the dogs away before his decision was served. I'm asking you, who from the Ministry called the dog owner? Who told him to do so or what good would that do him? It is obvious that the Minister and the Government do not know the legal provisions of the service of the decision or do not want to respect them, since they are convinced that the one in power does not have to respect the laws. Since the Minister has made a decision to allow two locations, I ask you: Who will take responsibility for the next attack of dogs that can happen when the owner leaves the dogs in an open car for a moment while they are being transported from one to another location? The decision of the Ministry shows that the state kept the dog under protection for almost four years after unnecessary detention. I ask the minister: What compensation will the State pay to the owner for the time of the collection of dogs? How much will the costs of the procedure be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u387	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister! As a result of its geographical position, Slovenia is considered an important transit country in Europe, through which more than tens of thousands of cars and other freight vehicles are transported daily. Freight transport has increased significantly on our roads since the entry into the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia daily crosses thousands of foreign trucks and tractors, which do not spend any euro in Slovenia. Transporters fill their tanks with fuel in neighbouring countries, only crossing Slovenia, charging Slovenian roads and the environment in general, especially with exhaust gases from long and bad trucks. D is that this heavy transit freight traffic is the most destructive of Slovenian motorways, while unknown truck drivers are seriously endangering other road users and, in particular, on highways, they are blackmailing other drivers, as they are clearly considered to be the advantage of a larger and stronger one. In Slovenia we are obviously building motorways only for foreign drivers, who are obviously relieved of the flow through the country. Europe is blocking our means to build highways. I believe that highways are not a priority for our drivers, but strictly for foreign drivers. I call on the Ministry of the Interior to make provision, following the example of Italy, in the proposal for a road safety law, that on motorways and roads reserved for motor vehicles there is a complete prohibition of overtaking for all trucks and not only where this is specifically prohibited by a traffic mark. I ask the Minister of the Interior: When do you intend to prepare these amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act, which discusses freight vehicles that would prohibit any overtaking of trucks on Slovenian roads? What the Slovenian National Party believes would be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u388	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u389	Dear President, dear Member, dear Members! Any speeding prohibitions shall be regulated by the Road Traffic Safety Act. This is what the Ministry of Transport is preparing. It is true that the Ministry of the Interior is involved in this. We estimate that your question relates mainly to driving on highways. The position of the Ministry of the Interior is that the absolute prohibition of overtaking for goods vehicles is not acceptable because they drive different categories of goods vehicles on motorways, for which there is also a different limit on the maximum speed allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u390	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič will be [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me, please, Mr. Tiny. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u391	Thank you for your word. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, provision should be made in the draft amendments to the Act to provide that on a motorway and a road reserved for motor vehicles with three or more traffic lanes for one-way vehicles and on a motorway and on a road reserved for motor vehicles with two traffic lanes for one-way traffic, truck drivers whose maximum permissible mass exceeds three and a half tonnes and drivers of vehicles of more than seven metres may drive only two lanes on the right-hand side of the vehicle, which means that they must not be able to drive through the lane. At the same time, fines should be substantially increased for violators of those provisions. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we also note that in the Republic of Slovenia, the competent ministries have not yet determined how important it would be to divert dangerous, difficult transit traffic to the railway. In previous mandates, the Slovenian National Party has already addressed the competent ministers with five initiatives to turn trucks representing a large part of transport in Slovenia onto railway tracks. However, no government was in favor of this. Apparently, the automobile lobby in Slovenia is too strong for the Slovenian government to have the courage to do something like that. I call again on the Minister of the Interior to make provision in the proposal for a road safety law that on motorways and roads reserved for motor vehicles, there is a complete prohibition of overtaking for all trucks and the elimination of long-lasting bad trucks at the time of entry into the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u392	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u393	I have nothing to add to the fact that this law is not being prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, but by the Ministry of Transport. However, our ministry disagrees with the absolute prohibition. As long as there are different speed limits for different trucks on the roads, this would be a very lifeless and unfair measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the outgoing Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u395	The venerable are still present! Dear Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the absence! The question concerns a very dangerous breed of bullmastif dogs. In the Journal of Saturday, July 11, 2009, we were able to read the address Dogs of a famous doctor had many more lobbyists and advocates than ordinary citizen Stanislav Meglič. On the basis of the response of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the correction of its own response to the press statement of the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian People's Party calls on the Minister to protect citizens from attacks by dogs of dangerous breeds, and press releases that the Minister has signed a decision with which the dogs that caused the brutal attack in 2006 have returned to their holder, and not least, Comrade Saiovica for the daily Dnevnik 7. Seven. 2009, I would like to ask Minister Milan Pogačnik for explanations and answers to the essential questions for the protection of citizens against dog attacks of dangerous dogs. In your reply to the statement of the Slovenian People's Party, you wrote that you have fully followed the views of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia and the unified opinion of the Independent Professional Commission and acted in accordance with the applicable legislation. What led you not to complain about the decision of the administrative court if it was for the benefit of the owner's rights, proven dangerous dogs, and not for the benefit of the public interest? Which body has confirmed the competence and independence of the expert commission you are citing in your reply? I ask: Have you, by returning dogs that have caused a particular serious injury, also decided that these bolmastifi are dangerous animals? Minister, is it possible to explain your move by assuming responsibility for yourself when the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition handed over the decision to the owner in person and not on the usual route by mail and by the Department of Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia? Who will take responsibility in the event of a possible re-attack of these dogs which have been in the process since 2006 and with your signature have been returned to the owner who raised them and allowed tragedy and repeated attacks to occur? The decision signed by you determines two locations of the tropics of these dangerous dogs in the capital, where they can move. Have you checked the breed conditions of the owner before the service and if there is a document on this? I further ask: How much of the taxpayers' money did you predict, Dr. Pogačnik, that you would be able to pay the costs? Minister Dr. Pogačnik [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] to desolate and avoid the recurrence of such a tragedy in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we ask you to prepare in writing the chronology of all procedures and events. [[...]] Pursuant to Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u396	Thank you very much. I'm just asking if you want the minister's oral or written answer. [[Get up.]] At the same time, we must remind you that there is no written confirmation in addition to the oral response. We are moving on to the 2nd round of questions of Members and Members. Mr Bevk alone will ask the question of the economy, which is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u397	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Despite the absence of a minister, I will ask you a question and ask you for an answer at the first meeting. The closing works in the Idrija mine and the fate of the city of Idria were in an unenviable situation due to the financial crisis. Unfortunately, the mine cannot simply be closed in such a way as to turn the key at the front door of the shaft to Kaiser and France. The closing and fortifying work is expected to be completed by the end of this year, but there will still be about 130 km of mine pits under the city, which are partially covered, and by the fourth horizon will be watered. More than 6,000 inhabitants of the city live directly above the trenches. Therefore, it will be necessary to maintain permanently the non-insulated part of the mine, monitor the closures performed and maintain the tourist section of the mine. Until the financial crisis, the financing of the closures was relatively successful. Last year, the budget was reduced by €700,000 at the expense of the planned sale of the miners' holiday home in Ankara. Unfortunately, as a result of the economic crisis, sales failed and property prices fell and sales today would not even be paid. So today, the mines have 240 thousand euros in financial liabilities and 740 thousand commercial liabilities, that is, business obligations that have all fallen in 2009. The total loss on 31.12.2008 amounts to more than EUR million and represents 27% of the company's total capital. However, since the loss is expected in 2009, there is a real chance that the loss will exceed 50% of the capital value. The solution, which appears to be the best, is that the mercury mine ceases to exist and the liabilities and assets of the company are transferred to the owner, namely the Republic of Slovenia and the establishment of the Public Institute of Mercury Idrija, which takes over the public services provided by the mercury mine under the Mining Action Act. I wonder: How will the competent ministry solve the problem? I ask the Minister of Justice, Mr. Matthew Lahovnik, to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u399	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! The Triglav National Park is one of the oldest European parks, the first protection already in 1924. It is also the only national park in Slovenia and is also considered a symbol of Slovenia. Its objectives are to protect the nature and preserve the cultural landscape, to preserve exceptional natural and cultural values, to protect indigenous, rare and endangered plant species, species, natural ecosystems and so on. Furthermore, care for adequate development in the park, sustainable development of traditional industries, especially agriculture, forestry and tourism, and the fulfilment of the relevant material and other conditions for the life and work of the population here. On the other hand, the park provides experience of the park in various ways, guidance with information centres, information points, information boards, park paths, guided excursions, biological workshops and so on. It also provides research through research work in various fields within the framework of regular work, through project tasks and through all these data, results and others, also serves to prepare professional bases and to guide further work. In addition, he carries out educational and educational work, the preparation of publications, planned communication with the public, the design and implementation of various educational programmes, especially for young people, and of course awareness-raising actions and others. On the other hand, the park also carries out its mission as manager, professional and executive support for nature and development decisions and opens up a space for work between different interests and activities in the protected area. Good governance enables the objectives of the park to be achieved and is an example of managing and properly managing other protected areas as well as outside them. Participation in the preparation of a new proposal for the Triglav National Park Act or in the implementation of the follow-up procedure is also an important part of the task. In its updated normative programme of work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009, the government planned a deadline for its consideration of the proposal for the Triglav National Park Act in the Government for 4 July 2009. I ask you, Mr Minister: At what stage is the bill being considered? If so, what are the obstacles that prolong the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u401	Thank you very much for the Chairman's words, and thank you for the question. As far as the law on the Triglav National Park is concerned, it is the ambition of the Ministry of Environment and Space to put this law into procedure as soon as possible. You know that the history of this law is long, it is one of the oldest laws of the 1980s, and it is necessary to reform this legislation in every way. I must say that I regret that the National Assembly in its previous reference to time limits did not come to the adoption of this law, because I assess that the text prepared was of sufficient quality for the National Assembly to adopt it and thereby to update the law that is urgently needed for renewal. In particular, we also want to take into account the development opportunities offered by the Triglav National Park. We know that this is about constantly weighing the balance between development and nature conservation. Finally, Triglav is an important Slovenian symbol and for this reason this area must also be adequately protected. With regard to the specific procedure, I can say that during my ministry during these few months, we had a great deal of coordination meetings where we re-checked the consistency of the text. It is quite clear that it will not be fully aligned with all stakeholders, it is said, from NGOs to local communities, where we want to achieve the widest possible degree of consensus, and to all others who appear in this national park, it is also a matter of hunting families and so on. It is true that we planned to introduce this law into the government procedure for the 4th of July. This would also have happened if the meeting we had in Bohinj in June had not resulted in 13 requests from local communities from the Triglav National Park area, and where we agreed to review these requirements again, to examine them so that there would be no misunderstanding, and then to put the law into the procedure immediately. I must say that I have one last meeting with the representatives of the Bohinj municipality on Wednesday, the issue of the seat of the Triglav National Park, as well as with representatives of the Hunting Association of Slovenia, because they were absent from that last coordination meeting for excusable reasons. So I'm counting on Wednesday to make this last coordination and then to put the law into government procedure. I therefore count that in September the law could be adopted in the Government, because it will first go to interdepartmental coordination and then to the procedure in the National Assembly. However, I think it is high time that we adopt this law, because in fact the old law does not allow for adequate development in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u402	Thank you. Would you like a further explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u403	No, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u404	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Dr. Vlačič, colleagues, colleagues. The question I am asking is the resignation of Mr Tasic, Director-General of Slovenian Railways. We know that you, as well as the President of the Government, have made it a condition for the Director-General to give up one of the functions he performs or to give up running the county, because the system requires an entire human being. However, at the time of his resignation, when he resigned, I quote his statement, which I received from the media, saying: "that the Director of the State Enterprise, whose policy does not offer him broad support, does not lead the company, but goes to work." And then he went on, "It's not a responsibility to step down, but it's irresponsible to drive a train with 8,000 employees with their hands tied like this." Now the question is: Is the back of a retreat somewhere else? That's why I'm asking you: What policy has tied his hands? We know that as the owner, he acts as the owner of the government. I'm sure the opposition couldn't have tied him down. If he's got them, they're his coalition policy. I therefore ask you as Minister of Transport: Whether you or the President of the Supervisory Board may have influenced or exercised any political pressure to believe that some tectonic movements are likely to take place in the background, which, once again after the towers, are likely to come up with a plan to break down Slovenian railways in the final phase and with threatened existence, I think that, in my opinion, what 5,000 people, if you are planning to sell freight, may have resisted by the Director-General, and in this way he said that at least in his resignation, he said that the county was not the main reason, but some scenarios for Slovenian railways and the existence of people on Slovenian railways and employees were such as to lead to a similar fate as [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Muro? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u406	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u407	Thank you, Chairman. I am very pleased with this question of yours today for several reasons. I'll have a chance to say some things. Dr. Tasic is one of the people who has experience in running large systems. He successfully led the Slovenian steel industry. As a result, he likely also enjoyed the support of the Governing Council. It's mine. When he arrived on the Slovenian Railways, he signed a document to resign as mayor of the Municipality of Prévalje. This was the condition that the supervisors confirmed him as director of the Slovenian Railways. I'd like to put that in context. The context is as follows. For four years at the Transport Ministry, you had the opportunity to have a significant impact on Slovenian railways and Slovenian railways have been sinking for several years. It's not so much a problem when someone sets up a director who goes or doesn't succeed or anything, but whoever finds the right director will be the hero or the right director who will have to be such a musketeer to pull this firm forward. You've been dealing with Slovenian railways for a long time, you know them to the bone. And they've been sinking ever since. We only put a hundred million in them this year. Much more than you predicted in your budget, when we had to give a few ten million together, because you did not give enough in relation to last year's realisation. But let's leave this moment aside. The fact is, Dr. Tasic signed off. Then the press asked me why it had been so long since he said he would give up, and until then he actually gave up. Even when you become a minister or an MP, you have some time to sort things out. If you have s.p., you have a few months to shut it down, if you have a business, you have some time to transfer ownership to someone else and so on. And that's how we counted with Dr. Tasic, who enjoyed trust. And many of his moves on the railways were good. That's not even a question. But we didn't ask him to do anything special, except what he signed. At the same time, it is important to keep in mind that no one would say anything to him, and I told him in person, if, when it comes to the congregational council, which is contrary to what the principles of democracy are, if one wants to give up, and if one has been chosen from the people, of course, the congregation world does not really have something to decide on in the opposite way. These are fundamental democratic principles. However, if they had already done so on the municipal council, he would have initiated proceedings before the Administrative Court and the case would have been concluded for us. I'd only run procedures. Since he didn't do it, we told him repeatedly to settle his status. This is because the history of Slovenian Railways is such that we had people there who were mayors at the same time and teachers and directors in their spare time. And we wanted the man there with the head, soul and body all the time. If anyone is more in this room, you know that he must be: with his head, soul and body nonstop, 24 hours a day. Because some of them before, even beneath you, weren't. This was a fundamental reason because it is a sincere desire for this rail system to be regulated. I've told you many times before, with me, it's not a matter of breakdown, a single system, holding, it's a system that's going to work. You have been in the Slovenian Railways for 20 years, you have been involved in this system, you have had the opportunity to design it for four years, and you have not actually found it for one formula. I'm looking for her, too. So now I can say, because I have some time left to decide that the study that you have prepared will be upgraded. I think that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, a call will be issued to supplement this study, which you have begun to prepare. This study will provide answers to the best possible organisation of Slovenian railways and the entire system in our public railway system. Then we will do another study, which will predict the flow of goods, to see whether in the Republic of Slovenia it is worth as much as you charged, 8.8 billion in the Slovenian rail infrastructure system. I am optimistic that this will work, but we have to have arguments for this because it is very very very much money. And if this is the story, if Slovenia can be a logistics platform for this part of the world, if this is Slovenia's strategic advantage, then we will be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u408	Dr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u409	Thank you very much. I think that with regard to the concept of the regulation of the Slovenian rail system in this Parliament we will still have the opportunity to discuss what we are and you, and so on. I would focus on the question I asked, but unfortunately I didn't get an answer to it. Unfortunately, I don't think I got an answer to it, because if we are already going to the procedure for appointing the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways, then you, I think, have just violated the rule set by the President of the Government and the Government through the Human Resources Accreditation Council and the way the Director of the Slovenian Railways will be called: a public tender. He was not appointed by public invitation to tender. He was appointed directly. You set him up. You recommended him, and the board of directors called him. So much for the appointment itself. But once again, I ask: Was there a reason, given that the Director-General also stated in his statement of resignation that the policy had bound his hands, that this was the main reason and not that he was the mayor? Does this then have to do with any scenario, a concept that will take place behind all studies, which means breaking the system of Slovenian Railways, selling only the most profitable part of freight transport, infrastructure going somewhere, I don't know, in its own way with the taxpayer's money, and at the same time, jobs are at risk, according to my estimate, 5,000 people? That's what I asked you, and that's the answer I want. Did you exert any pressure on him to enforce this concept but disagreed with it? I don't know. I'm asking. That's what I asked you, and that's the answer I want.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u410	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u411	First, with regard to the invitation to tender. The government has probably overheared that the supervisory board has not violated the government's appointment rules. After that, the Government adopted a decision to appoint by public invitation to tender, following a call for tender or with other good practices, if the Government so decides. Before that, there was no such decision. And it was not a breach of the political or any other commitment made by this government. This needs to be cleared up once and for all. And that's what the government found out. He was appointed on the basis of other practices: this is an interview by the President of the Supervisory Board with various candidates and then he was proposed. As far as his statement of political pressure is concerned. If this requirement is to regulate its status, political pressure, then this requirement was, or else not. On the other hand, it's me, and you have to trust me here, honestly, completely open. What will be the best system for Slovenian railways, I do not have an answer right now. The answer is of a professional - political nature. It is so professional that, given what Slovenia politically wants with Slovenian railways, what it wants politically with transport in Slovenia, it is necessary to decide professionally on what would be the best. When we know what we want - I know what I think is right, but certain numbers have to show it because it's too much money to do what they mean. I don't have much else to add to this. The last thing you want is 5,000 people to lose their jobs, please. Slovenian railways are a large system. A system that already loses a lot of workers in the natural process per year, which also has a rather old structure. So I don't see this danger of people losing their jobs because of our actions. On the contrary, even when we talked to representatives of the German railways when I spoke to the German minister, he even told me that if everything went as well as we wanted there to be more people; those were his words that made me very happy. The last thing is to go to some incision that would make people lose their jobs. Today in general, one way or another in the world is worth a job, not just a profit, or even a profit, but a job; and this is what you see from the actions of this government. So that the measures would be such that a lot of people lose their jobs because of our actions, no. But this system needs to be optimized. Answers to questions need to be found. We need to find a system that will be the best in terms of what we want with our railways.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u412	Thank you very much. Dr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u413	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I want the Minister's response to be discussed in the National Assembly. In part, it was answered, but I think that it is difficult to ask questions about the appointment of the Director of the Slovenian Railways and then all the procedures that follow. In fact, we are now looking for the Director, as the President of the Supervisory Board has said, and so are you - now we are looking for a hero with a call for proposals, when three months ago, as far as it has been, we would like to have a director immediately, and now we will be looking for him with a public invitation to tender. I think it is necessary to discuss this issue, the very first person, the way in which this government is leading. I don't agree here that everything was right. It was correct after you at the government "post Festum" found that it was also so possible, given all the promises that were made: Staff - Accreditation saints. I think that these things are so important that they, the answer and this question must also be defined by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u414	On the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Transport to his question, the State Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the votes. And Mr Rudolf Petan, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u415	Thank you for your word. Question for the Minister for Environment and Space. Road infrastructure is extremely important for the development of each country, especially when investments are concerned with foreigners who are directly looking for sites with regulated infrastructure: road, rail or other. It is noted, however, that at this point, well, I do not mean today, but in the last period, the co-operators for the building permit, literally, at least what they do is to block construction. Most of these are unfortunately under the auspices of the Ministry of Environment and Space. But that doesn't mean Mr. Secretary's pointing out to you that you're guilty because you've only been good for six months. But the fact is. In this case, I would limit myself to the water industry, which sets extremely high standards in many ways. I do not say that they are not always right, but they sometimes set standards; then I will also say a concrete case that also allows construction. So I ask the Minister: Are you aware of the fact that such things can happen, that, in particular in this case because of the mining profession, projects are at risk and that they require possible things that are not even feasible, or that even those constructions that happened a few years ago should be disrupted? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u416	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u417	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm sorry that you didn't mention a specific case to me, but I don't know if it's possible that this is a crossing in Lipa near the Slovenian Horses because I have information that you're interested in it. As far as the water consent is concerned. You know that the Water Act lays down the conditions under which a legal person or natural person must obtain water consent when he intends to intervene in an area affecting the water regime or the water condition. You know that weather changes have been happening to us, you know what has been happening in the last days, for example, around Šostanja, what has been happening to us in the Railways and so on. That is why I am of the opinion that it is necessary to consider the profession, because when a worse accident occurs, we can usually find that the profession has not been respected. But I don't go into whether the profession gives the right solutions, the right answers to these challenges. As far as a specific case is concerned, it's actually a crossing in Lipa. There is a reconstruction to be carried out, but of course it interferes with the water regime and also into the water condition. It is therefore necessary to obtain water consent for this reconstruction. When I looked at this file, I found that the investor had already submitted such a role on 20 May 2007 and that we are information, because the procedure is such that if someone wants to build, they should intervene in an area in an area which may affect the water regime, first of all, the investor must obtain from the Environment Agency information on the conditions under which such an intervention can take place. And I must say, this information was issued in June. The long-term procedure is justified by the fact that this is a very sensitive procedure. Of course, I can't let myself go into whether it's really sensitive or not. Mainly from a professional point of view, this is a very demanding intervention. In this regard, I can say that the following technical conditions are laid down in this information on the construction conditions: the investor must take all measures at the time of construction to ensure that the flood does not have adverse effects on the water regime and on the water; all safety measures should be planned during the course of the planned intervention for the occurrence of high waters of the Koprivnica River; the component of the construction project must also be a hydrological and hydraulic assessment of the water regime from which the flood safety of the area will be demonstrated before and after the construction of the facility. You know the damage that happens to this address, for example, if they're, I don't know, these reconstructions, these trenches, they're being taken the wrong way. We know there may be severe flooding in the areas currently inhabited. Furthermore, the operation of the shaft must be designed so as not to deteriorate the existing flow situation and the project solution must also include a solution for decommissioning and cleaning of precipitation waste water off public roads and so on. As Minister of Environment and Space, of course, I cannot go into these specific technical requirements. This is where you have to trust the profession. But it's true until there's an accident, something unpredictable, until then, everything's fine. But then, of course, we're all wise. It is therefore right that, in view of these new circumstances, we are extremely cautious in recent years. However, I must say that the investor's application for water consent, according to the information I have, has not yet been submitted. It is clear, however, what the role must include in order to give water consent and thus to enable this intervention to this area. It's a reconstruction of this intersection. I agree, however, that maybe sometimes things are really irrational and sometimes we ask too much. Of course, it is very difficult to assess whether we are ever asking too much because this is usually clear when it happens. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u418	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u419	Thank you for your word. Let me first answer that this was not a local question. I have asked the question in a way that is general. I put it in general, it's written, Mr. Secretary then seduced in some case at the local level. That's another thing. And Mr. Secretary could only answer me yes or no, or the last sentence he answered would not be wrong. I would be pleased and would now specify my question on a specific case. But I'll read it, or I can't prove it to you. And allow me to read to you what other designers say: "In view of everything written, we can conclude that the implementation of a failure is impossible without adequate safety oversight, because it is not possible to arrange access to housing facilities..." and so on. That's what they say, other designers say it's impossible to do. On that basis, I'm trying to prove it to you. "If both failures are to be made, the existing failure that was made in 1993 should also be reconstructed." It should be a bridge, and now we're not building anything else there than we're just expanding for the third belt. That's all. And I cannot prove otherwise that the leaders are asking too much than I am now giving you a concrete case on the basis of a general question. And now, "Profiles for this bridge were from 1993." There's never been a flood, ever. Those elements of water consent are such that a matter that has already been regulated at 50 meters is extended to 80 meters or 70 meters. And if they were able to contain all these water currents earlier, they could be able to now, by simply expanding the profiles upstream or downstream. That's why my question or my thinking was that we're overreacting. I'm not criticizing the water economy, I'm just asking if it's happening elsewhere that they're sometimes overreacting. That's what I was gonna ask. Such exaggeration means, not least, new projects that cost, of course, someone is preparing them, but they are being prepared by experts who - well, I will not go any further. But the fact is, this construction could have started a few months ago, and now it's still waiting and we don't know when it's going to be. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u420	Thank you very much. I am of the opinion that this was a general issue and, in particular, many practical issues have been raised, which are also happening elsewhere. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the President of the Government and the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
