ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 11th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, France Cukjat, Janez Janša, mag. Branko Grims, Ljubo Germič, László Gönzc, Matjaž Zanoškar, Milan Gumzar, Franc Jurša, Franci Kek. Mr Göncz after 11 a.m. and Mr Gumzar from 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is, firstly, a proposal for a law amending the law on the legal relationship and the social dimension within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. On this proposal, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponents, Mrs Jeraj, to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. The Marriage and Family Relations Act was passed in 1976 and major changes were made in 1989 and 2004. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations in its third chapter deals with relations between parents and children, and Article 92 provides that an action may be brought against a fatherhood finding for a child born in an extramarital relationship in the child's name of the mother as long as she exercises parental rights, or the guardian of the child with the consent of the centre for social work; and a child, when he becomes old, but not later than 5 years from the day he becomes full age. On 18 October 2007, the Constitutional Court decided that the text of Article 92, paragraph 1, should be repealed "but not later than 5 years from the date of its adoption." The repeal, however, took effect one year after the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The contested legal regime allowing the child to lodge an action on the finding of paternity no later than five years after the age of majority, according to the Constitutional Court’s assessment, constitutes an intervention in his or her personal right to know his or her origin. Thus, the Constitutional Court points out that it is not constitutionally disputed in itself to set a time limit for the lodging of an action, and it is crucial, in the view of the Constitutional Court, how the time limit is fixed. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is so relieved that, taking into account the reasons behind the decision, it adopts an arrangement which will allow the exercise of the right of the child in the future to learn of its origin in a manner which will be constitutionally consistent. Thus, the Constitutional Court has decided that, in the first paragraph of Article 92, which provides for the provision that an action for a finding of paternity for a child born out of wedlock may be lodged in the child's name of the mother, as long as he exercises the parental right or the guardian of the child, with the consent of the centre for social work, and the child, when he becomes of age, deletes the text "but not later than five years from the day he becomes full age". When the repeal took effect, there was a legal void. In accordance with Article 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, children born outside the marriage are entitled to the same rights as children born in it. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's finding, we would like to see an appropriate solution to the issue of paternity by a child born out of wedlock. We have therefore prepared a new law that regulates the problem and, on proposal, can bring an action against the child within five years of the date on which he learned of the circumstances which are decisive for bringing the action. The Constitutional Court stressed that the right of the child to learn of his or her origin is not absolute and unlimited, since he or she is limited to the Constitution and the rights of others. The child acquires the procedural capacity and thus the possibility to file an action at the age of 15 if he is judged, and at the latest by age of full age or full business ability before age. Until the child is procedurally capable, he is represented by the mother if he is carrying out parental care or guardian with the consent of the Centre for Social Work. We believe that the amendment to the law we have drawn up in the parliamentary group is in an appropriate way to eliminate unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on 17. 11. 2009 adopted an opinion on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. As the applicants state, they wish, by means of a proposal for a law, to comply with the finding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 18. Ten. 2007 adequately addresses the issue of paternity by a child born out of wedlock. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the bill because it is both substantively and nominally inadequately prepared and because it also does not provide the right solutions, in particular because the applicants will not achieve the intended objective with it. Thus, in the proposal, the law's proponents misquoted the text of Article 92(1) of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations by quoting the text, as was the case prior to the entry into force of the repeal of the Constitutional Decision. The Constitutional Court, in the decision cited in paragraph 1 of the decision, annulled the text as follows: "...but not later than five years from the date on which the child becomes a minor." In the second paragraph of the sentence, it decided that the repeal would take effect one year after the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, so that this repeal entered into force in 2008. Next. The regulation, as set out in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, is not systematic. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations also lays down in Article 98 a time limit for bringing an action to challenge paternity, as it provides that a child may challenge paternity within five years of becoming a full-time adult by way of an action. The possible adoption of the bill would result in a situation where there would be different paternity determinations on the one hand and on the other hand a challenge to paternity, which is not acceptable. The regulation, as set out in the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, also does not take into account one of the key facts, namely that a child may learn more than five years before the age of age in which, under the rules of judicial procedure, he may act on his own motion. This is determined by law for 15 years and if a child finds out about these circumstances at 9 years of age, it is 5 years old, then the child is 14 years old, which means that he cannot file this action himself or could only do so on his behalf by his mother or guardian in cooperation with the Centre for Social Work. This means that the proposer of the bill will not be able to achieve or the solution adopted would put the child in even a worse position than has been the case so far. The proposal for a law on this issue does not solve the issue in its entirety, nor does it achieve the goal it has set. At the same time, it should also be pointed out that a comprehensive reform of family law, which also regulates the issue of paternity detection and paternity challenge, is at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at the final stage. The proposal for a family law provides for subjective deadlines, both in the case of a paternity claim and in the case of a paternity challenge, taking into account the specific situation of the child as the beneficiary of the action for the determination or challenge of paternity, and thus will fully address the issue of the whole family law. For all these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot support and propose to the National Assembly that it reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the Member States. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, colleague and colleague. In the DeSUS Group, we understand the intention of the proposer and the need to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations to regulate the legal status of the child's paternity determination. However, we do not support this proposal for a law because, when reviewing the motioners' arguments, we have the impression that the applicant does not really have a serious intention to address this issue. The applicant submits that the proposed amendments to the Act are intended to eliminate the non-compliance of Article 92 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision and to overlook two important facts. The first is that the decision of the Constitutional Court was adopted on 18 October 2007, when the applicant was still a member of the Government, so she had the opportunity to amend this law within the time and time required. The second fact that the applicant has probably deliberately forgotten is that a proposal for a family code will be submitted in a short time, which will also address this issue. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the candidate of this amendment has every opportunity to note that the proposal for a family code does not solve this issue in the way that the proposer intended and, of course, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, prepare appropriate amendments, which we will also support if this is not already resolved in the law that we are about to receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, as this is a matter of alignment with the constitutional decision. With this bill before us, the applicants follow the abolition of the 92nd Article of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with the Constitutional Court decision of October 2007. This requires us, Members of Parliament or the National Assembly, to adopt, in the light of the reasons set out in this Decision, an arrangement which will allow the exercise of the right of the child to learn of its origin in a manner that is constitutionally consistent. While the government rejects the law, it justifies that this issue will be dealt with more fully in the family code. We decided to support ourselves after considering and examining the reasons for the Constitutional Court and comparing and considering the rights of parents on the one hand and the inalienable right of the child to find out who his biological father was, on the other hand. We therefore support the solution that the five-year period should begin to run from the moment the child finds out about the circumstances and wants to press charges for the determination of paternity. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we respect the constitutional rights and duties of parents, who also follow their natural role to support, educate and raise their children. It is also important to provide that this right and duty to parents can be withdrawn or restricted only for reasons laid down by law for the protection of the benefit of the child. The fundamental objective of the proposal to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations before us is to regulate a more fair legal determination of paternity by a child than we, Members of Parliament or the National Assembly, were imposed by the Constitutional Court decision of October 2007. The Article, which according to the Court of Justice is inconsistent with the Constitution, laid down a five-year period from the birth of a child of full age in which he could file an action for the determination of paternity. We are convinced by the explanation given by the Constitutional Court, which justifies its decision that knowledge of its own origin is also a key element in the development of an individual's personality. That is why it seems particularly important to us in the Slovenian People's Party that a child should be allowed to know his natural parents. The most ideal for its development is, of course, that he lives or at least has contact with his natural parents. By doing so, we can see what this fact itself says; that fact speaks against the possibility of allowing the adoption of children to same-sex partners who cannot be the natural parents of a child. We therefore hope that they will take this into account when adopting the family code. We strongly agree with the Constitutional Court's argument that this is one of the elements which is essential for the individual's representation of himself and his place in society. Knowledge of its origin also has a significant impact on family and family ties. The impossibility of determining its own origin may, however, represent a serious burden and uncertainty for an individual. Therefore, the right to know its own origin also falls within the scope of special rights. It is the right to an identity, it is the right of an individual to know the identity of his parents. We therefore support the solution followed by the Constitutional Court's decision that the contested five-year period should begin to run from the date on which the child or the adolescent has been informed of the circumstances which are decisive for bringing an action for the determination of paternity. This also sets out and satisfies the provisions on the exercise and consolidation of the rights of parents, since they will no longer be able to change parental relations after this five-year deadline. Additional necessary amendments and additions may be incorporated into the law for further consideration. The law is therefore suitable for further consideration, so we will also support it in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I'm a good-bye to you. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will not support this law, this amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The fact is that this is a significant discrepancy with everything else, because the Constitutional Court said in section 92 of the Family Relations Act that the delivery, the text in which it reads "...but not later than 5 years from the day it becomes old." The applicants say that the deadline should be set by running from the moment the child learns of the circumstances allowing the action to be brought. What if the kid finds out when he's nine? The mother can tell him what happened, how and what it is, and the child can't file this suit yet, because when it is 5 years old, it will be 14 years old, and since the applicants also say that the child has a procedural ability only when he is 15 years old - if he is judgmental, which is also questionable, because the social work centre decides very strangely whether he is judicious or not. These centres for social work are one of the "fertilized pits" where horrible things happen and nothing good happens. We receive huge letters from Slovenia to our parliamentary group, where they complain over these social work centres that do not do their job or do their work poorly, or even by allowing crime in certain segments. After all, in Sežana we saw that two children were killed because of the negligence of the social work centre in the first place. In short, it's questionable what a processable ability is. Even when children are full - time, it is not said that they already have a perfect business ability, even though the law provides that this business ability can be determined even before their age. In the event that the child cannot carry out this action on his own behalf, this action may then be done by the child's mother or guardian with the consent of the social work centre. We know that it is very questionable to rely on the mother's opinion on such matters. It happens quite often that certain ladies, with the intention of discrediting certain people, go into these procedural acts and, in fact, do not follow the real state, but sometimes follow the vengeful intentions of certain mothers. These things in Slovenia are not so few. Given that social work centres always give the right, as a rule, always right to mothers, this matter is all the more dangerous and slippery. That is why we expect the Government, when it introduces a new whole law, to take these matters into account and to examine all segments of these options and present such a solution that will meet the requirements of the Constitutional Court following the deletion of that part of the text in article 92, as well as to prevent abuse by both mothers and those centres for social work. Once again, we will not support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Have a good day, everybody! Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Ministry! Indeed, even at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we do not think such a law is suitable for further consideration. It is not appropriate because it is not substantively and technically part of the task he wanted to perform, but will get an important place in statistics by a coalition of rejected laws, certain political effects, which is certainly one of the most important messages. In the draft law, the applicant advocates, in accordance with some old practice, the view that it is probably more important to have quantity, the number of amendments to the laws tabled, but not the quality and content itself. This time, the issue of the regulation of the situation of paternity by children born out of wedlock is being addressed. This refers to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that the legislator should address this issue properly, and therefore proposes to amend article 92 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. If we believe in honesty in the proposed changes, but for several reasons we can also doubt this, we cannot support the proposed amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations for the following reasons. In our view, "fastening on the right" is a desire to settle something quickly, which is known for the poorly prepared content of the articles or rather the same article we are talking about. For with the proposed solution we do not reach the desired goal, this is a legal provision for the identification of paternity by a child born outside the marriage. Among other things, Article 92 of the Law is very misquoted, since the text that was in force before the repeal was implemented by the Constitutional Court was taken. Let's take a look at the script. Therefore, if the proposal was adopted, they would be in a situation where they had a different definition and challenge of paternity, as paragraph 98 of the Act was forgotten. However, this issue will be systematically and appropriately regulated in the family code, which has already been publicised, and the proposal for a family code has been made public, so I invite everyone to look at it and read it again. Because we believe that according to the new family code this will be regulated in a comprehensive, systematic, real relationship between parents and children, including the identification of paternity by a child born outside marriage. The provisions of the draft paternity code will be substantively different in certain provisions from or even supplement to the provisions of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. A few more important differences and additions. The recognition of paternity will also have to be accepted by a person whose paternity is recognised if he or she is over 18 years old. The recognition of the fatherhood of an unborn child can also be recognized only if the child is born alive, but this option must also be allowed because it is a matter of special protection for the benefit of the child. The mother may give consent to the recognition of paternity, even if she is a minor, the child may also be admitted after his death, but only if he has had offspring, and it seems important to us also that a child who is not born in a marriage or within 300 days of the termination of the marriage, if he has ceased the death of the husband of the mother, may lodge an action for the determination of paternity no later than five years from the date on which he has been informed of the circumstances which are decisive for the lodging of the complaint. I think we are regulating this issue, coalition, comprehensively, unitedly, in one place and in the same way that Europe is comparable and modern. With such laws, of course, the word always applies to the conduct of social work centres. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that these centres are doing important, necessary work to ensure that it is certainly more good than bad [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] However, a Member with good legislation can be very helpful to the good. [[...]] However, I am pleased that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is also preparing a single review of social transfers, which will further improve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Nice greeting also on my behalf, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The first-signed group of Members, Jož Tank, submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, amending Article 92 of this Act, in order to resolve the issue of paternity by a child born outside the marriage, in accordance with the finding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 18.10.2007. They propose that, instead of repealing Article 92, the child may be sued for paternity at the latest within five years of the date on which he has been informed of the circumstances which are crucial for the lodging of the action. In the SD Group of Members, we find that the solution proposed by the proposer of the bill follows the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, but the regime proposed is non-systematic and contains at least two serious systemic errors, although it has only two articles, one of them is an article referring to the enforcement of the law. It only regulates the question of the time limit for the lodging of a paternity action by the child, but not the substantively identical question, which is the time limit for the lodging of an action to challenge paternity. Although only one article has been challenged in the Constitutional Court, the reasons of the Constitutional Court for repealing the text of Article 92 should also be applied to the possible assessment of the constitutionality of Article 98 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations governing the issue of the challenge of paternity. Nor did the proposers of the bill provide for the situation that the time limit for filing an action may begin to run before the child is five years old, i.e. when the child is still procedurally incapable of exercising his or her rights. Without an addition to the 92nd frontal section, a child could have been worse off than before the finding of unconstitutionality. As a result of these mistakes, the objectives of the law proposed by the proposers will not be achieved. We note that all the necessary amendments resulting from the Constitutional Court decision are included in the Family Code proposal, if I am very specific, in Articles 120 and 128 of the Family Code or even more comprehensively in the chapter governing the relationship between parents and children. The debate on the Family Code has also just concluded our Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled has organised a public consultation. The proposal for amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was also very intensive and I am convinced that these appropriate solutions are also fully informed. In short. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, because the Family Code is being discussed right outside the door with this comprehensive solution that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	On 18 October 2007, the Constitutional Court decided that Article 92, paragraph 1, should be repealed or that the text should be repealed no later than five years from the date of its adoption. This took effect one year after the publication. The contested legal regime allowing the child to lodge an action on the finding of paternity no later than five years after the age of majority, according to the Constitutional Court, constitutes an intervention in his or her personal right to know his or her origin. In its decision, the Constitutional Court states: "The legislator disproportionately limited the right of the child to learn of his or her origin by restricting the possibility of the exercise of that right to an objective five-year period after the age of majority. In fact, after the expiry of that period, children no longer have the opportunity to exercise their rights of knowledge of their own origin, which is confirmed by the initiators of the case," he said to the Constitutional Court. As already stated, the contested legislation protects the sustainability of family legal relations. The fact is that the identification of the origin of the child in later, adult age may have adverse consequences in the personal and family life of all those who are indirectly or directly involved in the process of determining the child's origin, but after the Constitutional Court's assessment, the interest of the child who, after the five-year period following the completion of his or her full life, has been weighed over the interests of legal certainty and the need to safeguard the confidentiality of the existing family legal relations. After the expiry of the time limit, the child was deprived of any opportunity to exercise his or her right to learn about his or her genetic father at any later date. According to the Constitutional Court’s assessment, it is necessary to take into account the specific situation of the child as the beneficiary of the action for the determination of paternity. The child is totally dependent on the information provided to him by others, especially his parents. Even when parents disclose information relevant for the lodging of an action, the child is not affected. In doing so, the Constitutional Court points out that the setting of the time limit for the lodging of an action is not in itself constitutionally disputed and is crucial in what way the deadline is fixed. The Constitutional Court assesses that the safety and sustainability of family-law relations would not be significantly affected if the legislator set a deadline by running from the moment the child found out the circumstances which are crucial for the lodging of an action. In addition, the legislator may, in other ways, limit the effects of the finding of child origin on legal certainty and the existing family-law relations. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment to the article referred to in Article 92 of the Constitutional Court, and this article is amended to allow a child, in accordance with what I have said, to be brought into the Constitutional Court's decision, to bring an action within 5 years of the date on which he has been informed of the circumstances which are decisive for bringing an action. As it is said, the Constitutional Court has stressed that the right of the child to learn of its origin is not absolute and unlimited, since it is limited to the Constitution and the rights of others, but must be enabled to do so. We believe that the amendment we have tabled to Article 92 eliminates the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court and that is why we have also prepared it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and, of course, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party is somewhat aware of the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, so I am not sure that it is from the heart that it wants to remove the legal void created by the Constitutional Court decision already, we can say, in 2007. In this way, we should want to adequately address the issue of paternity by a child born out of wedlock. This is part of family law, which the Government, as a proposalant, certainly intends to regulate in a comprehensive manner. The decision of the Constitutional Court provides for the repeal of the 92nd Article in the first paragraph, which states: "...but not later than 5 years from the date of its becoming full-age." It should be noted, however, that the Constitutional Court has left to the legislator such a constitutionally coherent regime, which will also allow the exercise of the right of the child to learn of its origin in the future. As the Government also points out in its opinion, and I do not repeat myself, the Constitutional Court considers that the legal security and sustainability of family-law relations would not be compromised if the National Assembly laid down deadlines in such a way as to run from the moment the child finds out about the circumstances which are crucial for the lodging of an action. According to our assessment, the proposal does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision consistently, since the law also provides in Article 98 a time limit for the filing of an action to challenge paternity within five years of the day the child becomes old and the adoption of such a law or novelty would have reached a point where a different determination and challenge of paternity would have been possible, which is not acceptable in our assessment. If we really want to regulate the area of paternity recognition in a comprehensive way, then this novel should also include the legal arrangements for the recognition of paternity before birth in extramarital unions. In 2008 and 2009, more than half of the children in Slovenia were born in extramarital unions, and most of us who are fathers of these children were recognised by the fatherhood at social work centres, for which social work centres have no explicit legal right, they do so under the Ministry's regulations. In short, if we want to regulate this area in a comprehensive way, we should probably give some legal basis in this amendment of the law for such treatment of social work centres. In order not to repeat the Government's argument which opposes the proposal of the novel and which we are also approaching in the Zares Group, I would like to reiterate that the Government's comprehensive and systematic regulation of family legal relations is governed by the family code. Of course, this relationship between parents and children, including the identification or challenge of paternity, will also be included. A public presentation of the opinions was made. We have faced both supporters and populist opponents of the proposal, who knowingly or not stress just and only one of the solutions to the family code, which I will not expose here today. However, if I focus on today's area that we want to change or regulate with this novelty, I need to comfort the applicant, the proposal for a family code provides for subjective deadlines for the two types of actions that we are talking about today, i.e. in determining and challenging paternity, taking into account the specific situation of the child as the beneficiary of an action for a finding or a challenge to paternity. As regards the solutions in this area, when the opinions on the Family Code were presented publicly, today's drafters did not touch on this area, which I can conclude is what they agree with. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to call together for the content of this proposal to be rejected, as we will do in the Zares Group, and to jointly support the comprehensive and systemic solutions that the Government has drawn up and will be short-circuited in the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is given by Mrs. Cvetka Zakolar Orazem. She's not here. Mr. Willie Rezman. It's not. Mr. Guido Kres. It's not. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Not at all. Mr. Dejan Levanic. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Lois Posedel. Mr. Marjan Crossman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Madam Secretary of State and a colleague from the Ministry. Good morning to all, of course, fellow Members and Members! Unfortunately, there is once again a bluff and a bill that I will not personally vote on, and we will not vote on it, because, as colleague Črnak Meglič said in her presentation speech, the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the Disabled has had a public debate on this subject, a comprehensive law is being prepared to regulate everything on this subject, all areas. Colleagues in the SDS have found another advertising niche for themselves, as a series of 65 laws, whose nonstop "beat" on TV and where possible, put another one they will talk about, you will see the next time on TV, "66 laws we have proposed and the position has rejected them". So it's just a matter of conjecture and it's just a collection of political points. A stranger would even think that the matter was serious and that, of course, they were serious and that they were thinking of helping. But it's the opposite. As a matter of fact, the marriage has already been public, and we all know it. The law will come before Parliament, we will talk about it in Parliament, and then it is an opportunity to say everything we think is bad in the law, and of course to support what is good in the law, in order to serve those to whom this law is intended. Unfortunately, I must say that this is a copy of the proposal for a new law that you have brought before the National Assembly today, and with it, of course, as I said before, you have played another role for those who are the only ones who make sure that laws are quickly adopted in this Slovenia, and, as we say, this serves only for the political points that you are collecting in the media. Social work centres that enforce laws have also spoken about social work centres, and I am sure, and I know that, they work by law and do good. They work according to those laws adopted by the former government, the former government, and another government. Just spitting through the thumb of a social work centre, doing bad work, not using the terms used by one of the spokesmen for the centres, is just a sad picture of someone who dares to condemn a system that works well in the country; with mistakes and with good things. This is as if a cop who gets drunk and gets shot twice in the air is condemning the police, how incompetent the police are in this Slovenia, how they shoot themselves on the roads and how the police threaten people. But enough about it, because if we talk about it, we're going to give someone who talks so bad, something's working. That is why I do not intend to give these people and such debaters their own validity. The law will come before us, including the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, before we send it to Parliament and then we will discuss the law thoroughly. Unfortunately, these are destructive attempts to solve problems in our country. I do not accuse the opposition of being completely destructive, but there are quite a few destructive proposals, overcoming, as someone said, on the right, so that you can create a fog and show people how quickly and how effectively you think about the problems that are in this country. I think the coalition is capable enough, and the coalition, as I said before, will bring this law to an end. The law will be adopted. And your proposal, I hope he goes to the history dump. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Alenka Jeraj, that, on behalf of the proposaler, the first-signed Jožet Tanka, she presented this bill because it only strengthens my belief that anyone in the parliamentary group can present a request instead of the first-signed one. I specifically mention this because last Friday was one of the fundamentals of why an urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth should not be convened, since the first-signatory could not attend the meeting. Well, thank you very much, it confirms what I said. Now for the proposed amendment to the law. The novels should appear to be attracted because it repeals a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has repealed a delivery in 2007 and it would be expected that, given the respectful attitude that the legislator should feel towards the Constitutional Court, such a bill or such an amendment should be drawn up in the previous term. However, I will not support the proposed amendment of the law for two basic reasons. Firstly, the novelty is only to be amended by Article 92 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and leaves at the same time Article 98 of the Law, which should also be corrected, since the same things as those applicable to the determination should also apply to the challenge of paternity. So, another proof of how partial solutions are never handled precisely enough at the systemic level. The second reason is that I cannot act ignorantly and say that I do not know the proposal for a family code that tries to regulate at the systemic level of the relationship between children and parents, in this case biological parents, as well as other family situations in a comprehensive and, to say the same, modern way. So, I respect the efforts made by the drafters of the new family code, which they have been preparing over a long period of time in connection with the various professional public as well as civil society, and is just before the legislative process begins. That is why I will be able to endure all the evidence that might come to mind that I do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, precisely because I respect them and because the Constitutional Court has found in relation to children another non-compliance, it seems completely unacceptable to me now to deal with some kind of charade, which, as it is said, will be fully regulated in the family code. I would expect that, at least with this legislative initiative, the applicants will not shop when they are good and help the ruling coalition to address some of the legal shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. [[No, you're giving up.]] Franz Bogovich. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Silva Nigga. [[She's not either.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Joko Godec. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Franz Puksich. Mr. Mirko Brulc. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri. Please, finally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	Good morning! One of the rare, good morning, but with pleasure! Good morning, too, to advocates who are obviously trying to trick us with a safe combination into pretending that the bill is appropriate. After all, the solution itself is not bad, it is partial, it is partial, but as we have seen several times in this mandate, it tries to set up some intention that is in itself good. I would therefore welcome the spirit of this bill and thank the SDS for presenting it. At the same time, I would point out that this proposal is very limited to just one question and that this question is also partially settled, in a way that is not systemic, which is not comprehensive and therefore does not respond to all those challenges of modern society, the modern family, to which I want to answer the end of the day with the preparation of a comprehensive, even in the public debate of the revised and partial family code. As already mentioned, this law does not do, for example, another important work, which is practically a reflection of the issue of paternity recognition, and this is a challenge to paternity. At the same time, I am pleased that the solution is set out as it is, because it is practically the same as the solution provided for in the family code. Perhaps we can look forward to supporting the SDS proposal for a family code, given that I see that ultimately our vision is the same. Besides, the family code does a lot of other things. This is a systemic shift in decision-making on child protection measures, as they regulate the whole range of these issues. It regulates faster family resolution and moves almost fully to address the issue of child rights from the social work centre to district courts. At the same time, of course, it strengthens the advisory and professional role of social work centres. Here in the family code is something that is very important and also procedurally complements all the questions we are trying to resolve in a partial way, for example, with this novel. This is the question of a child advocate who will certainly enable a child who, we know, is, of course, limited in his or her ability to operate in the legal system, to better exercise his or her rights. Finally, it also regulates the prohibition of corporal punishment and all those issues raised by the modern development of the family and society, including the issue of the legal relations of the living communities of the same-sex partners. So it is a comprehensive view, but of course it requires longer preparation. Here I also welcome the efforts of colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, in particular colleagues from Andreja Črnak Meglič, who have decided to introduce a broad debate, after all also through a public presentation of the opinions which enabled and which still allows the public to become as inclusive as possible in the question of the renewal of this area as well as the family code. Here is where to draw one line on this question and to find that it is not the first time that we receive from the opposition a law whose spirit is positive, but unfortunately it is very partial and manages things so ad hoc and almost in a little amateur way; and please, without offense, we often do amateur work too. However, this proposal, which is so put forward, is difficult to accept and is difficult to confirm for further consideration precisely because of these shortcomings. And I would remind you of some other proposals that looked good in the first moment, but eventually turned out to be a shell without content. I would like to recall the measures proposed to the Government this spring, which, by the way, sounded nice, were also numerical, but so - thank you colleague, I will return to the subject. I needed the issue of measures and the question of the second proposal that we now have in the debate, and this is the proposal for a law on copyright and related rights. To return to this question: I find that the obvious proposal has been put not to actually solve a question, but to stall other procedures. And so, if the spirit is positive, the reason why it has been invoked is questionable and it goes to end this intervention with a rhetorical question: whether the applicants really want and whether they really expect the adoption of such, very partial, flawed and non-systemic solutions, but when they know that there is a code in the procedure that systematically regulates all issues and that solves this and much more than what we have on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Mr. Franco Yuri. Damian Perne. Dr. Pavel Gantar. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you. Now that we're talking about everything very widely, I hope I'm not going to go too. Well, what a thing my predecessors said, I have to comment. First of all, the representative of Zareza says that we have supporters of the family code and populist opponents, as if we should not object to anything and should not have an opinion. Maybe they're populism supporters, but we're opponents. I also have a problem with what I've said several times before, that everyone knows what we think, what we want, and obviously almost more than we know ourselves. The family code is indeed in the process and we have said what things we agree with in the family code, because it has finally been prepared even in our time, at least mostly, but not with some of the specifics we have now received, and it is indeed in the procedure, it will be accepted, it will not be accepted. The decisions of the Constitutional Court do not apply to the family code but relate to specific laws, in which case the Family Relations Act. And when you tell us, yeah, and the word is we're trying to trick you. [[...]] We don't want to fool anyone, but you're probably smart enough to see what we want with the proposal and what we want to do. And on the reading that we only have a problem with same-sex people - in the time of our government, we have adopted a law on same-sex relationships, all the previous liberal governments, in which and today, members of Zares, LDS, SD, have failed or at least tried to regulate it, except at the populist level, absolutely no other way. Regarding social work centres, I agree with one of my predecessors that it is everywhere that some do very well, some do well, and some do bad. And it's not right to generalize things at all and accuse everyone of doing bad. This would also not be good for institutions that are supposed to care for people who are set up to allow the exercise of human rights to citizens and in short to help them, but not to say in general that they are not doing their job professionally and as they should be. You are telling us that the law is not systematic, that it is not comprehensive - we have several laws, including on your part, which we have had in this mandate. You're telling us we're not changing Article 98 either. With the transitional provisions, there are many things that can be arranged and shown to us that everything is crazy and that we have taken a false approach and I do not know what the terms were. We've got a few laws or we've had them in a procedure that, after they've disappeared somewhere, you can't even make a deal in the government, and in the coalition, whether you're going to take them out to the end or not, so reading it to us, it's a little bit, I won't say, unkindly, maybe something else. Finally, our job is to be able to propose a law, and I don't know why it's a problem if we're proposing a law, and why you have a problem if our laws are more than yours. Introduce laws if you think there's something you need to settle. That's how we do it. It has also been said that there is something we want to shop with, and apparently there is someone else who wants to. So the problem is probably that the SDS won't shop, but it will be - I don't know who, the government or the coalition, when things are on the table. We are confident that if we did not put a few laws into our parliamentary group, the government would not have moved forward and woken up and acted on certain things. We are satisfied with what we are doing, and we will continue to do so because we think this is the right way. Of course, we will support the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. However, there is always something to improve and also to regulate the article mentioned, which you say is not properly regulated. However, the initiator challenged Article 98 in his application, but the Constitutional Court found that this is a matter regulated by Article 92, and that is why this has also been the focus of our follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. What else is there to say about all this because it was said? The Constitutional Court has drawn up its decision concerning the determination of paternity 18. Ten. 2007 The previous government had a full 11 months to wish to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, to arrange it, or to draft a law that would then be taken into account, like some other good solutions presented by the previous government, by the new government. However, this was not the intention, as the previous government was also preparing to amend the family code, which after 35 years fully governs family relations and relationships between partners. That's why I would say it's right to wait for this comprehensive system solution. However, if the proponents rushed to convince us how late we are, at least they would have tried and copied the dictions, I mentioned already, Articles 120 and 128, which would not have been aware of the systemic errors they have made. However, every debate does not really make any sense. I believe that given that a family code will be a comprehensive solution to this issue in January's consideration in the National Assembly, we are actually responding to why this law is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Would you like a word from the government? Yes, Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. From all these debates, I would like to sum up perhaps the crucial thing that matters, why the Government rejects this proposal. In fact, one of the government's priorities is that constitutional decisions are implemented as soon as possible. This is actually one of the objectives we are following, but in this case we cannot really support this bill. Why not? Therefore, it is not because, in fact, by the solution proposed, this solution is even less favourable than the existing solution in Article 92, since the Constitutional Court, in a decision issued in 2007, ensured that the most problematic part of this Article is deleted in 2008. So a five-year-long slip-in-the-line deadline-- it's gone! This solution, which is before us in this proposal, does not in fact take into account one specific situation which may arise in the event that these circumstances, which are important for the identification of paternity, arise five years before the child is given the opportunity to file an action. So, 15 years ago. Otherwise, the solution may lead to the possibility that in this case the action may be brought by the mother on his behalf or by the custodian in agreement with the Centre for Social Work. Only we know that's not the best solution. Why isn't it? Because there can be a conflict of interests. In fact, this proposed solution to the amendment of Article 92 is not good, it is worse than it is, and at the same time the problem is that it is not comprehensive, because it does not solve the issue of challenge of paternity, because it is two closely linked things. In fact, there is a family code in the procedure that will deal with such issues in a comprehensive manner. This deadline isn't that far away. Within fourteen days, he will go into the government procedure and before that he will be publicly presented with all the additions, the ones that we have received in the public debate, and, for example, the fruits of this 92th and 80th articles, just to make it even better so that all the errors that may arise can be remedied. We thus ensure, as proposers, that this problem will be fully resolved in the coming family code. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the motioner? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Then raise your hands, please. Check-in is on. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Each debater has 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, everyone here. Madam Secretary of State. The century in which we live and the beginning of the 21st century in science marks a huge step that has been taken in recent years, particularly in the 1930s, by natural sciences, in particular biological sciences. It seems that biology and biomedicine, in particular genetics, are increasingly squeezing and defining the daily lives of individuals. The rapid development of genetics and its breakthrough in several fields have also affected other scientific disciplines, in particular social sciences and humanities, and thus the law, legislation and various areas of sub-legislative acts. Genetic research has offered quick and accurate answers to a number of questions that have plagued many individuals, their families, and children for a long time, as well as other researchers, such as anthropologists, archaeologists, psychologists, and others. At the same time, a process of popularising genetic research has been launched that has hampered the situation and many claims made by sociologists and humanists and has consequently led to a strong need to amend a number of legal norms and laws. The speed of research and the changing legal standards could not have followed so quickly the requirements of this area, at least not at the beginning. Witnessing the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which I believe was inspired by the Constitutional Court's decision of 18. Ten. 2007 is only one of the experiments that is not very clever, even if I believe that the initiators wanted and gave it to the welfare of children born out of wedlock and that they are applying paternity and, unfortunately, have failed to resolve it because of insufficiently clearly defined definitions. I cannot believe that the applicant, although he was aware that the family code had already been in public debate, introduced this amendment of the law in such a way and with such errors as are not exactly examples. I will decide and join the Government's opinion so that I will not confirm the dramatic change. It is particularly clear from the public disclosure of the new family code, which addresses this area and other systemic ones, that at least two articles define this very clearly, namely Articles 120 and 128 of the Family Code, as well as some other chapters. In its programme, the government is also planning other system laws that will regulate this extremely difficult legal area, since it interferes with a number of regulations and laws, especially in times of crisis, it is important to define even more subtlely the entire system of different social transfers to alleviate the daily hardships of these and other children as well as other individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. You're giving up. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 19 November, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - First of all, it is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public use of Slovenia under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed France, Keko, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. There is no government representative. It is true that we have finished this point a little quickly and that perhaps and the representatives of the Government have come, so I will give my word to the representative of the Government, Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members. Thank you for the opportunity to present the basic changes and additions to the Public Use Act in five minutes. For us at the Ministry, the preparation of these changes has been a double lesson: how difficult it is sometimes to find the right relationship between conflicting rights and how sometimes one word can easily solve the whole problem. First, there's a little preface. It's a 2004 law. In these four, five years, some of his inconsistencies and inconsistencies have been revealed. Some have been highlighted by practice and others by a slightly more brutal European institution. The first pragmatic group shall be composed of the following three amendments to the law: Article 2 correction, which has so far provided for the third paragraph of this Article, to apply the provisions of this Act directly wherever the sectoral laws provide otherwise. It was necessary to list several other areas of exception so that, for example, the Mass in Latin would not be illegal or that the French break in the Slovenian translation of the English text would not be illegal. Therefore, a new, fourth paragraph of Article 2 is added that this law does not apply to the language of religious rituals and artistic texts. The second pragmatic correction concerns Article 29, which does not clearly define the powers of inspectors. This is why it has to be negotiated by the inspection board so far, and we now formalise it in a legal provision and share inspection powers between cultural and media inspectorates, market inspectorate, education and sport, work, agriculture, forestry, food, medicines and veterinary law. The third pragmatic correction concerns the elimination of certain apparent shortcomings in sanctioning and translates them into euro in Article 32. In another group, which we cannot call pragmatic in any way, but which is still principled, principled, is a kind of fight for language, and for Slovenian, two articles are: 15 and 23. - corrections to these two articles which speak of labelling and advertising. From this point of view, on the one hand, she firmly wanted to insist on Slovenian as an official, national and dominant language, and on the other hand, non-discrimination of different actors, which could lead to the fight against certain fundamental items of free movement of goods and services. From this point of view, Slovenia first tried to implement it in 2007 with a rule on the implementation of these two articles. I'd say not the most fortunate, for the first time, because the rulebook simply couldn't break the law. So we had a situation where there was something wrong with the law, and the rulebook was working to remedy this flaw in the law. But this formal side was only part of the unhappiness that we are now undoing. The second was literally wordy. When the phrase "A language easily underground by the consumer" was translated into the Slovenian language in this rule, it was translated "the driver translated into a language that can be understood by the consumer". This "may" can assume, but it can't. Maybe, maybe, we can. And this certainty of not being so understood is literally now saved by the word "light", now for the first time in law, not just in the rule of law. We say in the law that both labelling and advertising in Slovenian or in the consumer should be easy to understand. On the one hand, we did not in any way fail our first-ever-in-commanded official language; on the other hand, this allowed us to alternatively satisfy strict European legislation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Let me just point out that the only legal attempt by the person who tried to solve this matter was the Consumer Protection Act, which simply missed the Slovenian language. He said that the information must be in a language that can be understood by consumers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, from this point of view in our law on the public use of Slovenian, this change cements the position of Slovenian more strongly, but I believe that it will be through the answers to your questions and debates [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] may further prove that the law firmly insists on the compulsory use of Slovenian and the development of a high cultural level of public communication. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased with every proposal for a law regulating the use of the Slovenian language, so we will also support amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Use of the Slovenian Language. It is sad that we only talk about the use of the Slovenian language when we align our legislation with the European acquis, as the European Union requires us to do. In our party, we are convinced that we should have a very serious discussion in the National Assembly about the use of our mother tongue, because its use needs to be further adjusted because it is lost in various foreign countries, and even if we do not understand English, we sometimes need to take a good look at what someone is offering us. It is true that words are rich in Slovenian language, and it is right to use them. All of us, who are not from Ljubljana, are increasingly disturbed by the fact that only one title is used on national television, and this is so-called Ljubljana. I am not a nationalist, but it bothers me that the use of other Slovenian languages is mocked. I don't think that's right. Our country on the sunny side of the Alps has recently been glued to our national mobile phone operator with a jumbo poster, and there was a slogan on it in the Ljubljana word "whom I am waiting for". I think that there should also be a lot of action in this area, because our Constitution clearly states in Article 14 that everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs and so on. Certainly, this article of the Constitution, including in state institutions that boast that their mission is to preserve the Slovenian language, has been violated many times, so we will support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Use of the Slovenian Language in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the amendments submitted and the addition of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian is to effectively harmonise legal infringements with European Union law. Solutions that have caused problems are also justified, and we think mainly of the rules on labelling and advertising products. In particular, the latter has taken a long time to commit violations and to treat the law with negligence and consequently to the Slovenian language. Provisions on the implementation of inspections and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with legal provisions are more appropriate. While the rules do not explicitly state the quality and accuracy of texts that have been translated from foreign language to Slovenian language - here I am thinking mainly of technical instructions, safety instructions that must be followed by law on the market of advertised machines, devices and so on. Experience has shown, and in practice it has been confirmed several times that it is happening that you will be able to understand or implement any settings for use, say, telephone, TV or computer as directed in English rather than on the basis of Slovenian instructions. So these are not exactly and carefully translated. Nor does the law explicitly define the issues and problems of marketing and the use of professional literature. Article 1 explains only the exception of the language of verbal art, namely prose and poetry, and the language of religious rituals. With regard to the use and marketing of professional, technical and scientific literature, a number of questions and needs for a more precise definition of the written words are thus raised. We can understand and accept the exception of works in the field of verbal art, but we find it a little more difficult to understand the exception of the language of religious rituals. Does this mean that in these times - including the Muslimisation of the European space and the expansion of mosque projects across Europe - the mass of Muslim religious rituals will take place in Arabic or, in practice, in the Balkan region, the Serbian-Croatian language? Or somewhere else in Latin for someone else? It seems to us that this is at odds with what we all approve and appreciate as a fundamental stone in the history of the Slovenian language, that 500 years ago there was a difficult struggle to introduce the Slovenian word into religious rituals in Slovenian churches - I mean Primož Trubar and the Protestant movement in general. Even when the mosques grow all over Slovenia, there will be no reason not to be able to perform a Muslim religious ceremony, such as worship, in Slovenian language, because we Slovenians have received a very quality translation of the Koran translated by Mr. Jelinčič Jr. As far as monitoring the implementation of the law is concerned, we must recognise that we have at our disposal a wide range of inspectorates, public inspections, etc., so that control can be thorough and effective. While we are also asking about the role and competence of the Slovenian Language Office, its work is not to be traced to the amendments and additions tabled. Although there are still a number of questions about the use of the Slovenian language as an official language in the Republic of Slovenia. We focus on occasional violations or negligence in the use of the Slovenian language in bilingual areas in the Republic of Slovenia, because Slovenians and Slovenians occasionally turn to the Slovenian National Party, warn us and ask for help in some such cases, but sometimes more. In short, we support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian in general, but we have reservations to the issues I have mentioned in the introductions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. A friendly greeting to the representatives of the Ministry. Of course, when a word is applied to Slovenian, it is always an important and necessary topic. In the elegy of his kinsmen, Presheren long ago wrote: "You seek nothing but profit, you don't care about your brothers. What you read, what you write, must give goth money." And that's what this marriage is all about. One of the main reasons for amending the law has been the European Commission's warning that the provisions of Articles 15 and 23 which prescribe Slovenian for the labelling and advertising of public products in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia do not comply with Article 28 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and not with the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Community. Therefore, the Commission has, of course, requested that the provisions be supplemented or amended accordingly in such a way as to make the labelling and public advertising available in Slovenian or "in the consumer easily understood language". But here the question is always asked, of course, how will Slovenians legally resist this, how original, resourceful, and where will we let foreigners, how far the foreign language goes? In the view of the European Commission, the provisions so far were too restrictive and in the labelling of sales products to the consumer, so these two articles propose an appropriate addition or harmonisation. The company may use generally understandable symbols and images instead of a word language in the labelling of products. There is, of course, plenty of room for resourceful and national conscious, which is right. To date, the provision is complemented by a 'lightly understandable language in the consumer', which should simply mean that every consumer is susceptible, without any particular effort and additional assistance. "Easily understandable language" is in the Slovenian space in the first place definitely Slovenian. This provision, however, allows the use of some other "lightly understandable language" to consumers. This provision in the "consumer's easily understood language" leaves a fairly broad interpretation, but with regard to the use of the Slovenian language in the law, they are properly built-in fuses and this seems important to me. In the previous mandate, this has been harmonised in the Rules of Implementation of Articles 15 and 23 of the Law, but this solution is non-systematic and can therefore only be temporary. And that is also what the European Commission has warned us about, and that is why harmonisation is transferred to the law itself; if we simplify, the rulebook as such essentially repeals the law, which is certainly not acceptable. However, the regulation cannot regulate the matter under law. At the same time, the articles were harmonised in the previous term in the case of the Consumer Protection Act. The amendment of the law also regulates a clearer division of powers of inspection between ministries. It is important that the principle of the protection of human rights is also enforced in the participation in religious rituals and in art texts, which means the exception of the language of verbal art and religious rituals. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we support the proposed solutions as appropriate and we believe that the law is certainly suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Purity on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members. The proposed amendments and additions to the adopted Law on the Public Use of Slovenian in 2004 have been announced for a long time. The proposed need to amend the Slovenian Public Use Act is already seen in the coalition contract in the previous term of the previous coalition, as well as in the coalition agreement or in the material for which it was possible to see the need to amend the law, both with regard to the possibility of implementing certain provisions as well as certain restrictive provisions, which was particularly pointed out by those in the higher education sphere, as well as the economy. If I am not to hold back from generating the law and responding to it in public beyond what is necessary, let me just remember: for the first time, that the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian lays down more precisely the general article 11 of the Constitution on Slovenian as an official, that is, a national, language. Secondly: the law has undergone a constitutional review on the grounds that it is supposed to reduce the rights of two national communities which also have official language status in their linguistically mixed territory. It has also been judged by the European Commission, at the request of European Member Jonathan Toad of Austria, whether they have established laws too stringent and constitute an obstacle to free competition in the European Union common market, since the law provides, inter alia, that all foreign companies in Slovenia must use Slovenian in their contacts with the parties. I would now like to explain these two in more detail. The Law on the Public Use of Slovenian was created under specific circumstances and with two different views. The first so-called restrictive language policy, which is in command, and the second, which is agreed, which indicates the framework of use, but opens the creative field of communication to the speaker or the writer, according to his personal need, according to the appropriate term for an effective message. The law on the public use of Slovenian follows the other, so he left many unsatisfying. It is true, however, that the law merely regulates the use of the official language in the broadest sense, as is customary for the official languages of other nations, thereby providing it with a specific status under the Constitution and indicating the established language usage patterns. With this design, there is some kind of basic legal information on the situation of Slovenian and forms of communication in Slovenia as well as in the first language of the large majority of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, and on the importance of this language also for a culture of public communication. In spite of the concerns of some, the law has certain specific effects, and one of them has also been a resolution on language policy. This has also given the National Assembly a special emphasis because it has been imposed on the National Assembly to exercise some kind of control over the implementation of the legal provisions and also to provide the necessary budgetary resources for its implementation. Slovenia is our common value. Therefore, the responsibility for active language policy lies with all parliamentary parties and with the country as a whole. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that the law will provide any Slovenian speaker in the country that is dominant in that language with such positions and such provisions as to make him feel at this level at home and be the language of his country. It is true, though, that the law does not bring what some have expected of it, namely, that it will prescribe a language standard and thus become some kind of judge of linguistic correctness. Here, however, from the point of view of the law, at these moments, I would refer to what is the subject of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. It has already been said that the Government intervened with Article 1 in the use of those texts that the law did not deal with in the basic version. In fact, it states that the language of religious rituals and the language of artistic texts should be excluded from the law. This provision can have its own advantages and its own weaknesses. For it is a matter of facilitating the religious rites of any religious community. In addition to the Latin mentioned above, which could have already been traced, at least German should be mentioned in the religious rites of the evangelical church or some other religious rites. For the language of art texts, it is necessary to read the law as a whole and also some other provisions. However, the amendment of Articles 15 and 23 is a key novelty. It has already been said that the correction is necessary to comply with the acquis of the European Union, since these two articles have been criticized by the European Commission since our country entered the European Union. This raises the fundamental question of how to understand the language policy of the European Union. The European Union has repeatedly ensured that the EU does not have a common language policy but only has a common principle, which is the principle of equality of all languages. The question of the hierarchy of values is particularly raised in the Group of Social Democrats and in particular in my opinion. In fact, when we look at the fact that Article 3 states that the first objective or the first wish is to establish an internal market and to ensure that goods are free to flow, the same article also ensures that the European Union respects its rich, cultural and linguistic diversity. But some of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Community can, in this respect, be kept inconspicuously, if, of course, we also take into account the decision of France, how it has adjusted and how it has reacted to the provisions, so that it states: "The labels provided for in this Chapter may appear, inter alia, in one or more other languages." It seems that the reference to the national language of the White Lisa to so much promoted multiculturalism and multilingualism of the European Union and to where practice will go is only a question. So, let me remind you that in the 2007 Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, when we adopted the Consumer Protection Act, where the possibility of labelling and advertising products in a language that is comprehensible in the first paragraph of Article 2 and in the second paragraph of Article 12 was expressly allowed to be omitted from the explicit purpose of the Slovenian language. That is why we support this solution, which is now written, which mentions Slovenian in the first place and in the words, or also refers to the use of "an easily understood language consumer". We are confident that if there is to be a judicial assessment of this, the court will judge in this case, however, if the Slovenian language is released at the time of the product, how to understand those "or the consumer in an easily understood language" and that it will read it as we understand it in the Group of Social Democrats, that those "or rather" are contractually defined and that the court will also be able to judge which languages in our territory can be considered "lightly understandable languages", which is undoubtedly better than before - "may be easily understood". I do not wish to say any evil interpretation of this proverb 'a language that is easily understood', but it would also be possible to understand this provision differently. Let me say that there are also two further amendments to the law that are not as problematic as they might have been for whom to be mentioned earlier, and we support the Group of Social Democrats and we are on the side of those who want to have a clearly written Slovenian in the law in the first place and the "lightly understandable language" as a version that gives economic operators the opportunity to use it when any other provision would be less favourable to the consumer. As a user of some products, I must say that we often violate the principle of good language, especially when it is understood by the consumer, a clear language, in accordance with the principles, the normative principles of Slovenian and also in the size of the letter that can be easily read by a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr. Secretary of State. The SDS Group will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. This is a law that solves some of the problems that have arisen in the implementation of the basic law, and from this point of view, the law is specifically formulated and prepared. The exclusion of religious rituals and artistic texts in Article 1 makes sense. In the light of the difficulties with the introduction of law in practice, a more precise definition in those responsible for inspection during the implementation of the law in Article 4 and the translation of tolars into euro in Article 5 is also very meaningful. However, the law also hides a trap that almost all my predecessors spoke of. Articles 2 and 3 are looking at a rather unpleasant problem that we have faced because the original text of the law was inconsistent with the law of the European Community and the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. This problem has been temporarily resolved by amending the Consumer Protection Act and the Additional Rules. The point is that, in view of the documents mentioned above, when marking and presenting products and services, consumers should easily communicate to the consumer the information in a language that the consumer understands from case to case. In Slovenia, too, it is not just and exclusively in Slovenian, because this formulation does not mention it. The solution we now have on the table is, in legal terms, the easiest. You have uncritically copied the formulation from European documents and the problem arising from the European Union is solved. However, the legislator has forgotten that it is his primary task to protect Slovenian national interests - language, especially the use of Slovenian language in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not a law that protects. Moreover, in the basic Slovenian law on the public use of the Slovenian language, we are now making a provision which will only become clear when the court has ruled on the issue. This is bad from the point of view of our national interests, because it means that in certain cases, in Slovenia, it is possible to use easily understandable Italian in bilingual areas, of course, German in bilingual areas, Hungarian in bilingual and other areas, so to speak Croatian everywhere and English, so to speak - everywhere. And that will be judged from case to case. That wouldn't be necessary. We have every right to make more precise formulation in our law of problem cities in order to avoid this by knowing what we are going into. Since we are not a large country where this was a bilateral problem, and the Slovenian language is one of the identity bases of Slovenian culture and Slovenia, of course this is absolutely necessary. Nowhere in this explanation does it say what would have happened if they had not done so. How much would that cost us? Is there anything else you can negotiate? There's no record of what would have happened if we'd accepted the exact interpretations of this relationship. There are no situations that could and could be unpleasant for us. The explanation doesn't calm us down anywhere, so there won't be any problems. If the legislator had foreseen such a situation, he could have at least partially limited them in the law. Thus, the whole problem has been resolved quickly, with a slightly improved translation of the word link from the European documents. As it is said, we will support the marriage, but believe that because of problems, probably in the courts to come, this law will probably soon be rectified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, the major amendment to the amendment of the Law is the adaptation to the Treaty establishing the European Community and to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, to which the European Commission has reminded us. The provisions of the law, which prescribe Slovenian for the labelling and public advertising of products and services, are complemented accordingly by allowing labelling and advertising also "in the consumer", as said, "in an easily understood language". "Easily understandable language" in the Slovenian space is in the first place Slovenian, and the use of some other language is also permitted for customers of easily understandable language. In this area, of course, we are no exception in protecting our language. All European nations have their own national languages, perhaps the French are even more persistent in this area, but also in their cases, the European Community has actually acquired this practice through various judicial decisions, changes to the law and so on, and our novelty today is drawing to some extent from French experience. In their case, the relationship between the interests of representation of the national language and the rights of the various tenderers was still taken into account. In short, during competition. In short, the Court of Justice of the European Communities had to weigh between the values on which this European integration is based and between the rights that individual countries want for their national languages. In this case, the Republic of France also had to amend to a certain extent the provisions of its language legislation, which we are doing in our own way, and this is also true of any criticism in this area, even today. At present, appropriate labelling and public advertising of products and services is regulated in 2007 by the rules adopted on the implementation of Articles 15 and 23 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, which, of course, can, as it is said, be only temporary because it is non-systemic. The rule kind of repeals the law, so it is necessary to place the solution in the law itself. Similarly, in 2007 we harmonised the Articles of the Consumer Protection Act, its Articles 2 and 12, without explicit reference to Slovenian, which is not the case, of course, the Slovenian remains first. In deciding what is easily understandable to consumers and, of course, also European practices and guidelines, which say that the courts that are proposed by the competent inspectorate will normally decide on this on a market-based basis. Indeed, the final word on the European acquis will already be given by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. That is how the scenarios that my speaker mentioned are possible, and in practice, I believe they are unlikely. In addition to the more clearly divided powers of inspection between ministries, the European Law provides for comparable regulation or enforcement of the principle of the protection of human rights in participation in religious rituals and artistic texts. In short, the language of verbal art and religious rituals is excluded, which was already provided for in the original draft law, and then this provision was abandoned in the procedure. As a result, of course, religious rituals, foreign language references, lyrics and similar law are already being violated because public communication in these cases does not take place in Slovenian. At the end of the day, I may even increase the fears expressed by the Slovenian National Party that religious rituals will be held in addition to the already mentioned Latin and German in Arabic. Of course they will! They will probably also be in Hindi, and in Tibetan, the old Church of Slovenia, in Sanskrit, they will also take place in Hebrew, which will be especially pleased with Mr Jelinčič the younger. It is just that different people in this world believe, we believe that God has spoken in a different eloquent language. This is some right that our constitution also guarantees, and we cannot do so. In the Group of Members, we really support the solutions presented. We believe that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary with fellow Members, honourable Members and honourable Members. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the public use of Slovenian. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, which will bring the legal solutions in line with European Union law and complement the legal solutions that have in practice caused difficulties in implementation. The law defines its scope more precisely, coordinates language regulation in the labelling and advertising of products and services under European Community law, defines the powers to carry out inspections of individual provisions and corrects some obvious shortcomings in sanctioning. The language of religious rituals and works and the language of the art of texts are, after completion, expressly excluded from the scope of the law, allowing for labelling and public advertising in Slovenian or in "an easily understood language consumer", since the European Commission considered that the provisions of Articles 15 and 23 which prescribe Slovenian for the labelling and advertising of products do not comply with Article 28 of the Treaty establishing the European Community or with a number of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. The draft law also contains an editorial correction of the criminal provision and the harmonisation of the global amounts with the Law on the introduction of the euro and a provision repealing the Rules implementing Articles 15 and 23 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. In the DeSUS Group we support the proposal of the law, as the proposal insists on the principle of the dominantness of the Slovenian language in Slovenia. It does not deviate from the principles on which the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian is based, in the first place the compulsory public use of Slovenian and the development of a high culture of the level of public communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. He's quitting. Ma'am mag. Andrea Richtar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Culture! Now we have heard the presentations of the groups of Members, and I should be forgiven if my presentation and thinking may go into understanding what I, after all, understand as an understandable language. You could say that the eternal battle, Primož Trubar and the current celebration, reminds you of him, but you'd probably think of your own. The common Slovenian space does not hide with Slovenian countries borders, and Slovenian minorities are also exposed to persistent erosion in neighbouring countries, as well as to smaller national languages in the processes of globalisation and integration, with multiple and increasingly planned marginalisation. Caring for the Slovenian language should remain the first priority, the task of cultural policy, not just cultural policy, the policy of each government, or its objective, should be to promote language development in the public life of Slovenian society. More than ever, we should strive and insist on our specificities, which have their arguments far-reaching into history. Slovenia is supposed to be a means of everyday communication, to express messages, a treasurer of culture and one of the main symbols of the nation and the country, so it is also to be taken care of at all levels in public communication, working and technological processes, scientific terminology, in consumerism. The Slovenian language we know and learn, and - whether it's easy to understand, I'm not sure. Apologize or, last but not least, in return for this, all the proposers of the legal basis, all governments so far, have many objections to European regulations or compliance with the EU acquis. In doing so, we are also witnessing the unfortunate translation of the EU regulation, which has so far stood somehow in the bunker of the previous government and has now come to terms with the present proposal to supplement the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. A language dictatorship that consumers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia can understand is a treat that our politicians have already used well. I used the language or the last winged "three hundred hairy bears" and "krucifix on the hamol" on my own many occasions, but sometimes I just don't understand it. I've been taught Slovenian, and I'm very respectful of a dual that we almost don't hear here in our house. But when I do my shopping, and we "may understand the language" causes problems, because all the instructions on all products are written with probably five or seven computer dots, they're invisible to me and I can't even judge "light" understanding. And if I go back to our National Assembly, where I listen to and hear our language, then it should be a norm for ease, the understanding of the language of the word, such as, let me be forgiven, "porkafix, swine", for me of course very difficult to understand. All in spite of the fact that in 2007 the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian was adopted here in the National Assembly and then the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy, two legal guardians with whom everything would be good in the future for the Slovenian language. But the existence of language, respected colleagues, depends on our consciousness, unfortunately, on our self-confidence, convinced here in Parliament and not on our continued adherence to the rules of the European Union. The Slovenians are turning their language around and neglecting it, every generation over and over again every day, and we Members are at the forefront of this path, so we have been really forgiven: Full does not understand what is going on, because we "may" understanding is not visible, but I feel cool because another European regulation will be in line with our legal order. Finally, I say, very responsible, I trust the Ministry of Culture, and especially with the words of the Secretary of State, who initially claimed that the Ministry of Culture would continue to be the Ministry of Culture, and thus the whole Government would look after and watch over the use of the Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry of Culture. I think that the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian has been quite said today and we have also heard all the different doubts about how and in what way this extremely demanding law, which has been very carefully prepared and for many years not least because it has been critically accepted by the Slovenian public. Today, I would like to draw particular attention to one other aspect that has not been so present today in our debate, which I would like to commend the Ministry of Culture and, of course, all the other arbitrators in this complete cultural policy, that it has actually taken a major step forward with Article 4 which could also be an incentive for the rest of the ministries. With this article, the Ministry has shown that it is able to discuss and communicate with other ministries, as we have seen in the past, because it is not easy to arrange inspection controls, especially in such a subtle area as the use of Slovenian in the public use. I therefore think that this could be highlighted in particular, but in particular I expect the market inspectorate, who can do the most in this area, to do the most, and I am sure that everyone else will have to and will have a lot of opportunities to do something about it. Surely, by identifying how and how the resolution already adopted is implemented, we can determine whether, in all other areas, Slovenian is being used correctly in the public domain. And then we can be "ful cool" all satisfied, even though language is such a living creation that it is worth it all over again, just like our colleague Majda Potter, to warn and correct those who of course do not keep enough bills about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law could, however, be referred to as the inevitable change that we must make in order to determine our common co-existence in the European Union. Everything's fine and fine. However, there are some questions that we still do not have clear answers to, or the European Union answers to, in my opinion, even a little "pishmeuhov" way. If the question to the user, the buyer or the consumer is easily understood, it will be solved from case to case. What does this mean that every time we go to the store and get the product, let's say, with a very common case, with a German description, we have to go to the lawsuit and prove that it's a hard language to understand? This is not a criticism of this novel law, it is a criticism of the current regulation in the European Union, which in fact deals in an ignorant way with the issue of language in such a way that it does not solve it at all. And this is a challenge not for the Slovenian legislator, but for the European one. Finally, this is where our European representatives are called, starting with the European Members. Otherwise, I would like to thank the applicants for such a solution, which is trying to solve in the most efficient way possible what the European Union requires of us. At the same time, I would stress the need for further examination of the practical effects of the current provisions of the law on the public use of Slovenian. While on one side we are losing those opportunities where we really should use Slovenian or -- and here I have no objection to the use of Slovenian words, but of course I agree that it is not only a Ljubljana word, but it can also be another, not only sympathetic, but ultimately means enriching the cultural heritage of Slovenia. But at the same time, in order to remove certain nuisances, in particular in the registration of economic unions and other legal persons, where they are not law-abiding, but those who interpret the law interpret matters by making mistakes. And I'm just going to give you one case and then I'm going to conclude that I'm going to leave my colleague some time. In Cyprus there was registration of the coastal advisory centre with acronym at MSS, the Maritime Advisory Centre. The response of the registrants was, this name is not possible because the double SS is simply forbidden in law. And this is not a problem of law, but stiffness and misunderstanding have determined the law by those who carry it out. Here I ask that you continue to try to upgrade the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Yosko Godec has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Lois Posedel. [[He's quitting.]] Mag. Franz Žnidaršič, too. Damian Perne, too. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I would like to remind you of the thought or metaphor of my professor Dr Jožet Toporišič, who said that Slovenian language is a forest. Individual types of language are trees. And I would like to see both trees and forests and as informed language users know which tree is needed and should be used in a particular situation. So much for the questions that some of you have raised regarding various types of Slovenian. At this point, I would like to express a slightly more radical position myself than I did earlier as a representative of the Group of Members. For me, the fundamental issue in this law is the issue of values. For me, language is a fundamental value that defines me. My language is my home, and I am for this home, not only on a principled level, but also in a practical life, it is my duty to take care of it, and as a Member I see things that are no longer close to me and that I cannot suffer. When I walk down Chop's street and see the inscription only in English, I wonder why inspection control can't do anything against such a written image. When, as a user in a respectable store, I cautioned the sellers, however, that instead of only English inscriptions in the shop and Slovenian inscriptions, the sellers did not kindly warn me that if I was ill-willed, I should not shake the bad will on them. This is the practical implementation level of everyday language use positions. And I understand that under the law on the public use of the Slovenian language, an individual will be charged, as he is now to report violations to an inspection, but the inspection will react with different degrees of efficiency and speed. And that's where the fundamental problems begin. I would like to assure the lawmakers that they have been able to re-write the word Slovenian in the first place or an easily understood language. It is up to us, and at the National Assembly, we will be able to defend this decision even if someone may turn to the court and demand judicial protection. That is why I think it is so important that we have reached a consensus today in the National Assembly on this proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr Stojan Pelko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you. Allow first of all sincere thanks for the support of all parliamentary groups and for the almost personal trust of both debaters and discussers. This gives me the opportunity to present and commend the colleagues who have worked with me most actively on this marriage, Mag. Gjurin, by the way asistemt Dr. Toporišič in the Department of Slovenian Faculty of Philosophy and lawyer Miran Zupan. Just a few things, if I may answer, because they'll explain. The fact that Dr. Gjurin is the head of the Slovenian sector with us has explained to Mr Györek that the Slovenian Language Office has been an integral part of the Ministry of Culture for some time, not that it was not active, but that it exists, but that the Ministry of Culture has prepared this law. When Mrs Potter mentioned the case of France and the court and the inspector. In fact, a similar formulation in the French case allowed the pressure of the European Court of Justice to drop, and because of this, even if I may respond to Ambassador Zorn, we did not decide on the calculation or challenge of the European Court of Justice, but examined their legal practice so far, legal cases, we saw what could lead to, and this strengthened us in the belief that this would automatically lead to a procedure and to a financial penalty. So there was really no possibility of negotiation here. And what I will first ask of my colleagues, and then other co-workers at the Ministry, is what you are the debater and discusser, that it is up to us to look after the practical examination of what we have now adopted. Therefore, a more precise definition of inspection, inspection obligations is very important for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss the subject. I see one application at a time. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Since we have talked about the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act in 2007, at the same level as we do at the level of the hierarchy of languages, and if it exists, I do not think it is possible for the European Union to ensure that all languages are equal, all official in the European Union, to me, the question of the hierarchy of values is raised when I am acting as a consumer when I use the language, as a buyer and as a potential owner of an economic operator. I would believe that the Consumer Protection Act is primarily intended for them - consumers. However, when we review the case law and the cited references in contracts or code elsewhere, it appears that the free movement of goods is the superior rule that should also determine the application of all other provisions which are lower on the hierarchical scale. This is simply unacceptable to me, because when the European Union is fully aware and when we feel responsible for those who also have a responsible impact on the provisions of the European Union, from this point of view, what we can do as an individual or as an individual to feel good about ourselves in this union of different countries, and when we decide that this is actually going beyond our interests, we will no longer be satisfied and we will simply press the reintroductions of power to decide differently and really in the interests of the people. The interest of people is not just the interest of the economy and the economic interest, which is only one of the interests. However, the first interest is that I get what I want to buy, also adequately commented on with the appropriate instructions, not in "macaroni" as some things can now be read on the package or in the accompanying letters. And this is where the basic rule begins for me: whether we respect it or not. The same will happen with other provisions of the law on the public use of Slovenian and the attitude towards Slovenian, in my opinion in the most delicate use, this is in use in higher education, where the most open questions are and where we do not ask ourselves the fundamental question: whether the study process is intended for students or visiting professors. Isn't it also an opportunity for students to come to Slovenia to study from elsewhere, to keep quality study programs with us, and that these students, possibly as experts, stay with us? Here, however, like those who would like to carry out a profession, they will have to face the demand that they have to master the Slovenian language if they want to do this work in Slovenia or if I am not talking about the languages of minority communities. These are questions that should be answered without being in any way exclusive, but in order to take into account the broadest possible interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 19 November, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. This is for discussion on the response of Minister Karla Viktor Erjavac to the business question of Janez Rybič in connection with the financing of water infrastructure from the water fund. At its 10th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by Environment and Space Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec to the question put by Member Janez Ribič on the financing of water infrastructure from the Water Fund. I give the floor to Mr Janez Ribic for an additional request to discuss the Minister's response. I also expect Mr. Minister to monitor [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Are you suggesting we give Mr. Anderlich a break? [[...]] This is the point that was given at the request of Members and Members, not the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	That's right. But it is precisely the requirement of the assembly to discuss the answer to the question, the reason and, in my view, the fundamental reason for it, of course, to ensure the presence. Even when there are questions of the Members, we will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mr. Anderlich, I agree with you. There's a two-minute break, please stay in the hall. I expect the minister to come. Of course, the presence is not only the interest of Members but also of them. And I expect him to respond and come to the hall. Two minutes, please, tops.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	I give the floor to Mr Janez Ribič to further explain the request for a discussion on the Minister's response. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. I also very much welcome the Minister for Environment and Space. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for allowing me to discuss this issue here in the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the coalition here, and here we can see that if we want, we can also do something good together and do it. I have asked the honourable Minister of the Environment and Space this question, because I sincerely wish to ensure that people are finally safe from water. We all know how important a natural resource is water. But we all know how much grief can cause either water shortages or floods. For Slovenia is considered to be rich in water. Of course, this fact has multiple faces. Repairs and other captures have shown in recent years how vulnerable we are to such extraordinary events. Only when a disaster occurs do we find out what the causes were and what we should do and so on. Also in the area where I come from, between Maribor and Ptuj, there will be a disaster on the left bank of the Drava River. And then what will we say to the people who will be at their homes, their wealth, their health? The population in such areas lives in constant danger and danger, in fact, in fear. Disasters in this area are happening precisely because water management issues are not moving forward. If the new legislation has already taken the first steps in the field of water pollution control and reduction, water management has been insufficient to deal with water regimes and flow conditions. Flood security is getting worse. Water infrastructure is failing, and then we have infested streams, unmaintained streams of rivers and at the end of the flood. Although the Minister has answered my question about the Drava River and the high-water embankments around it. The construction of this project is expected to begin in 2011. Until then, let us hope that this disaster will not occur at this time. What about the means of maintenance, the cleaning of watercourses needed for their flow, and the prevention of flooding? As I have already said, the safety of the population from floods must be ensured. And of course not just by the Drava River. What is happening in the field of investment projects to be implemented by means of a water fund? The question is whether the funds collected in the water fund and used for those operations in the water required for other energy or agricultural investments are properly used. From the point of view of water management, it would be significantly better if these funds were used only for water purposes and for investments and maintenance in this area. I hope that today's debate will also bring answers to my questions, which the Minister has not yet answered. How many times a year do regular maintenance works take place on watercourses? Who regularly controls the state of watercourses and how many times a year? What are the criteria according to which the Ministry of Environment and Space prepares an annual programme for maintenance works on watercourses? What are the procedures of the Ministry or the public service provider in the event of repair of watercourses or in the case of natural disasters? Does the local community have the authority to perform intervention works in the event of flooding of watercourses, and how is financing these parts? I want a creative debate and a water fund to be enriched with resources so that we can do all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	To all the fine greetings, especially to the President and Members and Members of the National Assembly. I think we can be satisfied that today we will have a broader debate on the question of how to maintain water infrastructure. I think it is very rare in the National Assembly to have a broad debate on the basis of the question. This clearly shows that this problem is of great importance both to me and to the Minister for Environment and Space, as well as to you Members and Members. I must say that I have answered the question put to me at the previous meeting of the National Assembly in a rather detailed, very broad way, and in fact I have answered all the questions. Nevertheless, the desire to hold a broader debate was expressed. I think this is good and useful in particular because we know that we are ahead of adopting the 2010 and 2011 budget. The problem of financing water infrastructure has a long beard. It began to appear in sharper form in the 1990s when fewer funds were allocated to maintain water infrastructure. I can even be critical, and I can say that we have not spent enough resources on this issue in the last 20 years, and we have tackled these issues very fire-fightingly. This is what happens when a natural accident, flood, storms, and I don't know everything, then we react, put in place special rescue programs if the damage was high enough, and so we solved these problems. I am therefore very pleased that we will have this debate today, and I hope that it will also conclude with concrete conclusions on how to resolve the situation. The fact is that the situation cannot be improved if we no longer have the resources, more funding is allocated for this area. We are trying, given the budgetary resources available, to solve things in those matters that are most critical. You yourself mentioned that only in 2011 will European cohesion funds be used, which is right, but that is not enough. I count and expect, here, that the debate on the water fund will be on the allocation of resources from the water fund, because there is also a very pressing question about what we are going to finance with the water fund, whether we are going to finance new investments, or whether we are going to spend most of the resources from the water fund on the lower Sava. I can say that the water fund has about €15 million, of which €15 million is allocated only to the lower Sava, to the infrastructure that is happening there, and we are neglecting the other water infrastructures. In doing so, I must say that some €5.7 million will be retained by the Ministry of Finance and will remain in the integrated budget, as the funds under this heading are raised around €30 million. I will be very happy if you Members, after a quality debate today, also adopt certain conclusions that will strengthen the water fund, budget items that mean more money for these purposes and then I think that things can change. Without money, there will be no quality music in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Minister-in-Office. The Drava River has played an important role in all its history, especially for the development of cities, places and feelings of people who are and still live on the river. It is particularly important for the economy in terms of many hydropower plants, which are an important member of the electricity chain for the whole of Slovenia. The construction of hydroelectric power plants was also marked by the very pulse of life along the Drava River, which deteriorated considerably by the construction of the power channel for the Zlatoličje hydroelectric power plant. The channel itself splits the settlements between itself, many eyebrows connecting the left and right sides of the village, are worn out and left to the mercy and ruthlessness of the municipalities, which should provide a safe passage, but for such rehabilitations they have no money. The state has forgotten that it is also responsible for such things that have been imposed upon people against their will. As the water was diverted, the flow of the Drava River was reduced, the shaft was growing, and the raft was flooded, which now results in Drava flooding several times a year at every major rainstorm when the watercourses filled the Drava stream. When Drava crosses the hills, a large part of Duplek, Vurberk and Dražgoš are at risk. There is great damage in the fields as well as in residential houses, as well as in the roads. It is certainly to be expected that the State will take appropriate action, since there is no record in the Constitution that differences can be made when it comes to Pomurje and Posavje we are impressive, but when it comes to Podravje, we are deaf and blind. Minister Erjavec drew attention to the use of European funds and to the decision being issued somewhere in 2010. At that time a building permit was also issued for rehabilitation at the Upper Duplek - Vurberk section. It was explained that substantial funds have been invested for these purposes, but, as we see, nothing has changed in terms of flood prevention and will not change in due course. We know that building permits are being obtained very slowly, and Drava doesn't know what's good for the Duplicians and what's bad for them, so here and there, instead of driving by car, they'll be driving by boat. I think that these places that I have mentioned deserve more attention from the State, and that part of the blame for the situation should be taken over by all previous governments, which have done nothing to solve this kind of problem. Only political points were picked up when the weather in Duplex was nice, and they showed up in all their greatness. We support and hope that the proposal of our colleague Ribič in the Slovenian National Party will not only be left with promises, but that promises will also be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Member, Fellow Members. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to highlight the following in dealing with this item of the agenda. In our view, this issue has been addressed in a very quality and in depth by the Committee on Environment and Space at two meetings this year, namely the month of April and the month of June. In our opinion, he not only took note of the goals, tasks and problems of water management in Slovenia, but, in cooperation with a number of experts in this field, he has adopted very good or good conclusions. The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia considers that Slovenia does not have the right document to determine water policy. We have laws, directives, regulations, plans, but except that there is no other right document in the Resolution of the National Environmental Protection Programme. The third point that we want to raise in this debate in the LDS Group is that the Ministry of Environment and Space needs to speed up the preparation of all laws imposed by the Water Act, according to certain strategic documents, in particular proposals for a water management plan in both water areas, a framework programme for the preparation of a maritime strategy, a plan to reduce flood risk, an action programme for the prevention of beach threats and a programme for the rehabilitation of beaches. Above all, on the basis of the above-mentioned strategic documents, the Government must prepare a programme for the construction of public infrastructure, water infrastructure by 2020 and also ensure greater investment in this area. The resources we have been earmarking in recent years to protect water resources for the supply of quality drinking water to people, to plan and finance comprehensive measures to reduce water risk, to rehabilitate beaches, to ensure sustainable use of water, and to implement public economic services, to manage water, are not only too small, but also, in many cases, forced on the basis of flood recovery programmes or to address the consequences of natural and other disasters. On the other hand, according to the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, it is necessary to ensure the appropriate role and the purpose of the funds of the Water Fund, which must be devoted only to the financing of investments in public water infrastructure, rather than to the infrastructure of specific uses, such as energy. Let's just mention the Savo. Approximately 60% of the water fund funds go to investments in water infrastructure on the lower Sava. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we are aware of the flood threat of local communities on the lower Sava, but an investor to build this necessary infrastructure can not only be a water fund, but an investor who builds these energy facilities on the lower Sava must also do so. Let me finish. According to the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the quality of the debate is based on the request of Members and Members, in accordance with Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, without adequate material and data, as well as conclusions, is impossible to accept, difficult to carry out. In our view, such a debate is in some way too focused on solving purely concrete ones, not to say local problems that we do not underestimate in our group. But our view is that it's not good, and it's less systemic. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore support the conclusions adopted by the Committee on the Environment and Space of June this year, and we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Sectoral Affairs to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. The delegation of the Social Democrats does not, in principle, support the discussions on topics that could be held within the competent working body of the National Assembly. Not to mention that this subject, as we have just heard, has already been discussed by the competent committee in June. It would be expected that those who wish to reopen this debate and verify what has happened in these poor six months in the field of the use of water funds, since this is essentially the subject of this item, could do so without further and without any specific emergency meetings and I do not know what else to propose. The board meeting would have been held. It would have been prepared in good quality. It could complement the conclusions we adopted in June and could also sharpen them and tell the Government that we expect the water fund funds to be used for the purpose for which they are collected. Not as it is now, but for a long time to focus on building energy facilities and accompanying infrastructure facilities at these energy facilities. However, the question is whether the delimitation between the actual purpose of the water fund, namely the means also intended for flood measures, is specifically in this area where these energy facilities are being built, or far exceeds what the water fund is supposed to be used for. The doubts that water fund funds are being used in this case far wider than the idea of the water fund itself are, in our view, highly justified and, in our view, a debate on this subject should also be held again in the Committee on Environment and Space. We expect that the consensus for this debate will certainly be "unisono" adopted and that we will be checking in January what we have proposed to the Government, calling on it and asking it, including what has actually been done. That is why we believe in the Group of Members that today's debate on this point is actually a waste of time and energy, which is happening too often in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-workers, welcome! I am very pleased that this debate has taken place in Parliament, at the proposal of Member Janez Ribič, because the issue of the water fund and the funds to be paid into the water fund and the resources we are earmarking from this water fund for various purposes is very much needed. Unfortunately, this area is still disorderly, it has been disorderly for quite some time now. Also, when we talk about the water returns and the problems associated with them, the discussion is more than welcome. I believe that the Minister will understand our discussions in the direction of suggestions that this issue needs to be addressed as soon as possible. It is true that pressure on the water fund has actually occurred more or less in the last period, when it has been shown that irregular watercourses are often the reason for the natural disasters caused by the storm, and with this we have many, many tasks in Slovenia. On the one hand, the water fund is drawn from all those using water or our watercourses for a variety of purposes and is used for purposes defined and more or less in terms of the construction of water infrastructure for water treatment, flood protection and the like. I remember a few years ago, when, in fact, projects aimed at drawing funds from the water fund were virtually gone. That's why I've come up with decisions I welcome. I am happy for them, and thank you very much for telling me the Members and Members with your finger on the Savoy below. The decision was reached at the highest level, at government level, that water fund resources are primarily intended to build water infrastructure in the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. Why? In view of the fact that the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Sava is one model and model project, how can energy be combined on the one hand and, on the other hand, the interests of the watercourses and all those who care for the watercourses, not only for the energy use of the Sava in this part, but also for the protection against flooding, to regulate everything that needs to be done and also for the inputs to the Sava in this part, in order to raise the groundwater, in some way to enable the use of the Sava also for irrigation, i.e. for agricultural purposes and so on. Sava in the lower stream and probably many watercourses across Slovenia cause enormous damage to people, infrastructure, agriculture, so it is right to prevent this. The law on the concession for the use of the Lower Sava for energy purposes has made it very clear what the limit is - that energy is financed only by the part of the water infrastructure that energy is actually needed for the energy use of the Lower Sava. This is fully financed by energy. And it is not true that water infrastructure is financed in this specific project, which water fund energy needs. That's not true. Those who say so do not know the law you have passed, by the way, in this House, and all the circumstances that accompany this law. It is true, however, that the upgrade of the water infrastructure, which is designed to prevent flood protection against 100 years of water and multi-annual water resources, is financed from the water fund. Energy could withstand its energy objectives by significantly lower embankments, but since more targets are being pursued simultaneously with the same project, resources are being allocated from the water fund to this so-called water protection superstandard, an anti-flood superstandard that protects settlements and protects agricultural areas and other real estates from floods. As you know, the Sava runs in the lower stream practically through Sevnica, through Krška, it touches Brežice and many villages at this part. There was no adequate water protection in the past, so floods and damage occurred. In the past, there have been no other projects to draw funds from this fund, and no government has so far agreed to finance water infrastructure in the lower Sava from other sources. Why? Because he stayed always and again money in the water fund. The money in the water fund was never spent for other purposes because there were simply no projects. I'm sorry. These are the facts. They can be confirmed by officials at the Ministry of the Environment. And it is right that they were dedicated to the purposes for which the water fund exists, and they were hand in hand with the energy project. But I'm sure it can't be like this in the future. Why not? Because of climate change and calvary throughout Slovenia, projects will be prepared, projects will be and are also available for other purposes, or for other emergency arrangements, where this is also protected, in terms of flood safety, for such or otherwise better water-flow management. These projects are and are also called out for accidents and events that we have witnessed in the last period. It is also right to find a completely different source for water infrastructure on the lower Sava. It's a big idea. More, actually. Water infrastructure on the lower Sava can be financed on its own, as the energy use of the lower Sava is burdened by a concession granted by the State. And surely this concession fee is long-term, we have calculated 26 years, and reimburses all the costs that the state invests in water infrastructure for flood protection. This system is stable, financially sustainable, and I hope, Minister, that you will in fact look for sources of financing for water infrastructure in the possibility of borrowing Infra d.o.o. which takes care of the construction of water infrastructure, and then allocate it to it, then this resource, which returns to the budget from the concession fee to pay these liabilities from credits. And the water fund can be completely designed for other purposes and for other pressing problems that are in Slovenia. Therefore, I think it is right that there is a comprehensive solution to all water fund issues, including the replenishment of the water fund. Today we have a number of resources from which this water fund is being filled. There's a source on the bottom of Savi, there's a second source on Drava, on some third source. The matter is formally unregulated and should be handled by the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is the added value of this debate that all parliamentary groups will give a signal to the Government and the Minister to prepare solutions that will somehow address this issue, face this problem and not least solve it. I do not really understand the President of the Committee on the Environment and the Space to run away from these solutions, because I do not remember that anything would be resolved in this direction from June to today, it is said, since the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, which was actually in Posav. Your Honor! So far, the resources of the Water Fund have been drawn on purpose and in line with government decisions, in fact, a priority for one project, namely the construction of water infrastructure on the lower Sava. I will not purposely tell which government it was, because the biggest critics of it come from these kinds. And it is right that they are dedicated in the future to the most pressing problems in Slovenia, which are few. I hope that the funds can be spent or that projects to remedy these pressing problems will also be ready in time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we very much expect solutions in terms of improving the law and all the regulations that regulate it, so we will be happy to support this approach in terms of what we have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you for your kind greeting to all present, especially the ministers. In the Group of Members, we have indeed supported the request for a discussion on the Minister's response to the question of Mr Ribič's fellow Member on the issue of financing water infrastructure from the water fund. Our support stems from the belief that the issue related to a very serious issue did not have to be resolved by prejudice, that the substantial requirements for debates in the National Assembly on some important issues were virtually always rejected, and that the requirements for debates on the weight of the arguments and not on the basis of the criteria of the applicant's membership of the coalition or the opposition should be weighed. It is also unacceptable to understand these requirements for discussions on the purpose of attacking addressed ministers or ministers. In the Water Act, the Water Fund is defined as a budget fund fuelled by revenue from payments for water rights and water payments as dedicated revenue for water infrastructure, the construction of state and local infrastructure needed for the construction of water infrastructure, purchase [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the land and the order of the water institute. In practice, if the said order of expenditure from the Water Fund were to be respected, today's debate would probably not be necessary. Unfortunately, however, we do not receive data from the final accounts of the State budget on the accumulated and used resources of the budget fund, which is called the Water Fund. Also at the last meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, a special decision or request that the National Assembly be held in plenary session, that is to say three days ago when we are considering the budget, to provide data on the water fund's funds, but we have not received this data by now. The question raised by Mr Ribič's fellow Member concerns the specific issue of the maintenance of the Drava River and its tributaries. A recent television show on national television has revealed this problem quite well on just one of the tributaries of the Drava River, on the Poet River. In view of the energy exploitation of the Drava River and the associated revenues, it is unacceptable to maintain the Drava River and the inflows and transfer of funds to water funds to other areas or purposes for which other financial resources should be provided and to allocate water funds to its primary tasks, namely the financing of water infrastructure. We expect today's debate to speed up the way towards better behaviour in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franc Jurša will present his position. Mr. Godec, please. It would be good if you announced a change. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Hello, Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The position of the DeSUS Group on the debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of the delegation of Janez Ribič concerning the financing of the water infrastructure and the funds of the Water Fund. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that more needs to be said in the National Assembly on this issue of water supply and water infrastructure maintenance. However, according to our assessment, this debate should have been held before or after two years, as the problems with flow and management of watercourses have not started to occur during the time of this Government, but we have been dealing with this for many years. We are confident that, under the current leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, something will finally be done in this area, that the Ministry will develop a policy to address the risks of settlements and economic infrastructure against water and peripheral space policy, to protect against pollution and to protect water ecosystems. We are also convinced that the use of water funds will finally be addressed under this government, as these funds have been used exclusively for many years to build a downstream chain of non-water infrastructure plants, instead of being spent on investments, for example for the construction of the Drava river basins between Maribor and Ptuj, which has been late for 10 years. Therefore, according to our assessment, the resources from the water fund must be spent for the purposes for which the water fund was established, i.e. to regulate watercourses. For example, from the water infrastructure financing document, which explains the interpretation of the use of water fund funds in 2007 and the spending plan for 2008, we can see that 10% of the water fund funds are spent on professional and developmental tasks for the whole area of Slovenia carried out by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Water, 4% for professional bases and spatial documentation for the implementation of water infrastructure, 24% for the reconstruction and higher investment maintenance of water infrastructure, 11% for the public benefit of maintenance works on existing water infrastructure and 45% for the implementation of water State and local infrastructure, which is built simultaneously with the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava and 5% for drinking water supply. We are confident that today's debate will provide the Minister with appropriate guidance so that he can carry out appropriate programmes with his team in the future because his predecessors have left him behind and have avoided his responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Godec, I apologize for the warning. A change was announced by the DeSUS Group and I was not notified. I'm sorry. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you. Respectable present. Water infrastructure funding. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have repeatedly pointed out this issue, but we note that the Ministry of Environment and Space is persistently squeezing resources for the maintenance of watercourses and water infrastructure. The fact is that regular maintenance works are not carried out on watercourses, which are essential to their flow and to prevent their flooding. In our view, the country still does not have a water policy, where a clear policy to address the risks of settlements and economic infrastructure against water and spatial policy relating to water and peripheral space, pollution protection and protection of aquatic ecosystems would be clearly visible. There is therefore no water policy to define the value framework and priorities in this area. The situation is, therefore, that the flood security of settlements, transport infrastructures and agricultural areas is deteriorating. Water infrastructure is failing, and erosion risks and uncontrolled interventions to water and water bodies are also increasing. As a result of this, there are infested streams, unmaintained streams of rivers, and at the end of the flood. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we seriously wonder what is happening in the field of investment projects to be implemented through the water fund. Are these funds properly used? We believe that from the point of view of water management, it would be significantly better to use these funds only for water purposes and for investments and maintenance in this area. We also believe that coordination between spatial planning at national and municipal levels and water management planning should be ensured, particularly in the preparation of water management plans, river basins or parts thereof. The role of municipalities or future regions in water management should also be better defined by law. Above all, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the country should work in accordance with the principle that it is better to prevent than to deal with the consequences of the flood later. Therefore, the debate today in the National Assembly is not without a link, as someone said. From the Ministry of Environment and Space, I expect the accelerated approach to solving the flood problem in the area of the Municipality of Maribor and in the area of the municipality of Duplek, in which a disaster can occur in the event of major rainfall, when they flood the so-called centuries-old waters, as experts call them. Mr. Minister, Karl Erjavec, I am taking responsibility for this disaster here in the National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first is Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! This concession has a specific purpose. This purpose is to maintain water infrastructure and riverbanks. It is intended for municipalities with water energy facilities to provide infrastructure and measures to enhance human security and property. We all know that there are few forces in nature such as water, so we must only remember the fateful floods that Slovenia has experienced in recent years. These major natural disasters can be prevented by smart regulation of water currents. And that's what this concession is about. We do know, however, that this does not take place or concentrates on the Posav end, where today there is obviously enough money to regulate the absolute superstandard in this area, which I consider to be part of the great efforts of former Minister of Economy Mr Andrej Visiak, who, during his term of office, has obviously dealt with Posav more significantly than with strengthening the competitive capacity and potential of the Slovenian economy, which we feel today in particular during the economic and financial crisis. While other areas, especially those near Drava, do not have the resources for basic maintenance, the villages along the Drava River and along the Drava Energy Channel in the Drava Field are in extreme danger. If we add to this scientific assumptions that by 2035 large alpine glaciers will disappear due to the impact of climate change and global warming, then we know the risks to people, cities and villages along the Drava River. This is an icy river that will undoubtedly grow in perspective, and it will be exposed to an ever-increasing fluctuation in its power and volume of river flow. These are very serious risks and serious dangers that require comprehensive treatment, because today we owe the safety of our people, cities and villages. That is why I am fully in favour of this debate, which was encouraged by Mr Villa Trofenik and Janez Ribič with their questions, and I think this is one of the common ambitions of Members of the whole of Podravja, because this unsustainable situation must be put to an end. In doing so, I must point out that I am disappointed at the attitude of Minister Erjavac, who is on the subject, I would say, ignorant, as he has shown today in his opening debate. This also proves that, until the meeting, we did not get the data we wanted, the actual data on the initial fund and the available funds and data on what was actually happening in this area. I think we are entitled to demand that this area be regulated and removed from the injustices and distinctions that are absolutely unacceptable. I would therefore also like to recall the position of my colleague and the President of the Committee on the Environment and the Space of Mrs Breda Pečan that, after the conclusion of today's debate, we should also focus on the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space and adopt the relevant binding decisions. This debate cannot be separated from the challenges of harnessing the energy potential of Slovenian waters and rivers. In doing so, I stress that Drava is a cradle of Slovenian energy. Today it gives us a major source of renewable energy in Slovenia and is also the traditional seat of Slovenian energy. When we guided Slovenian energy from Maribor, it developed polycentricly, with particular emphasis on the energy needs and potentials of all Slovenian regions. Unfortunately, we have to find out that it hasn't been like this for years now. More. Slovenian energy seems to be looking at the outdated concepts of technology and solutions at a time when we are faced with such a fateful and dangerous process as climate change, and we are acting as if climate change is only a whim of Brussels officials, but not a very real threat, which may not only fall into our quality of life, but radically change the world we live in, and the opportunities we have and must protect them for future generations. In doing so, I stress my support for building capacity for the production of renewable energy sources on the Sava River. But to the same extent, due to the decline in groundwater and related environmental problems and opportunities for the perspective of the Muri River, I also strongly or more strongly support the construction of transboundary hydropower plants. I think that the challenges ahead for all of us should be an incentive to take advantage of all the possibilities for renewable energy in Slovenia, the greatest possible energy self-sufficiency and the end of the predominant fossil energy scenario. This is part of the debate. While I support building capacity for the production of renewable energy sources in other parts of Slovenia, I stress that some of this must also have Podravje. Not only is this part of the concession, which clearly belongs to Podrav and to the Podrav municipalities, but I would like to propose new solutions as some of my creative contribution to today's debate. I hope that support will be given to at least other members of the region. And this is that, despite the fact that this proposal has some disadvantage in terms of European legislation and the rules of the internal European market, cheap drav energy, I am about to say that this price has reached a quarter of the most expensive Slovenian energy produced in Slovenian energy facilities, that part of this huge difference is also used to make better competitive advantages in cities near Drava than can be provided by cheaper energy to strengthen the competitive capacity of this work, especially at a time when this area also needs new economic contents with high added value. As we say, I know that this proposal is more difficult to implement because of internal market rules, but I invite you to keep this and this idea under active consideration. In line with the opinions of my colleague, Brede Pecan, I support the early reference of the Committee on Environment and Space and the consideration of this subject by adopting binding decisions. Mr Minister, I recommend a little more seriousness in dealing with this and some of the other serious issues and challenges facing us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go, Mr. Karl Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. I'd like to thank Mr. Fish first. I think it's a real opportunity for us to do this today to pass on responsibility for flood safety. Last but not least, your client's minister has been responsible for this area for four years, and apparently, in these four years, he has not done everything and I am pleased that you have given this initiative. I think you're the right person to let us do this in advance. However, I suggest that Minister Podobnik be present. As for the ignorant relationship, I don't know why you're reading this to me. I've come to the National Assembly meeting, told you what the situation has been, what has been going on or has not happened in the last 20 years. However, as regards the requirements for the operation of the water fund, it must say that this decision or this decision was taken by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and, unfortunately, Minister Križanič only submitted this request two days ago. That's how I can't accept your ignorance of an ignorant relationship. However, as far as I'm concerned, I'm insolvent, but - I don't know, this doesn't seem appropriate, given the debate we're having because we're talking about too many serious issues. I believe that this debate will need to be focused in a number of directions. One course is certain that financing for construction and maintenance will have to be reduced and the loans paid for the construction of buildings in connection with hydropower plants on the lower Sava will be repaid, as this is the key. I said, 25 million euros is about the size of a fund. €15 million is for the lower Sava, where we go beyond standard. While at some point we have a very critical situation and the threat can be very serious. I would suggest that the National Assembly speak a few words about this. Then it will also be necessary to examine how the loans leased by Infra, which is owned by the State, will be returned to how we will close this financial structure, since these loans will soon be so extensive that all the funds collected under this heading will go towards this repayment. I must say that this too will have to be discussed. Whether this will pay the budget under the items we have, or whether we will deposit it with the water fund, but I am afraid that it will not or will only be dealing with how it will service the repayment of loans. The next question that opens up in this regard is also what is happening with these funds from the water fund. We know that 60% of the funds are then for the needs of the local community. I wonder if these funds really go back to building water infrastructure. I'm afraid that's not something that's being used for all kinds of needs. What Member Vizjak said is very precisely defined, what needs to be done in the energy field, what is the intervention that affects the different flow of water because we are building power plants there, and what is left of the Ministry of Environment and Infra to manage this water infrastructure, I must say that this border is not clear. The more I look at the programs, the more we finance something more. That we also finance something from this title that energy should finance or that has a concession. That is why I say that this debate today is very useful in this regard. I suggest that this is a serious debate, not some kind of joke or something. It's very important questions. I ask the National Assembly to provide guidance, as Minister of Environment and Space, to propose these guidelines to the Government. That way, I can't accept these perceptions that nothing has been done this year - that's not true. As far as the preparation of various documents is concerned, I can say that in 2010 a plan for the transposition and implementation of the EU Directive will be drawn up, namely a real framework programme for the preparation of a maritime strategy for the period 2009-2015, a framework programme for the preparation of a flood risk reduction plan for the period 2009-2015, not to mention water conferences, with regard to water management plans - once for the Adriatic, once for the Danube. All of this will be in 2010. That's how we speeded things up. True, though, there may have been things that could have been done a long time ago. Therefore, I am pleased that we are doing in some way today, in a way, a qualitative way, the conditions that have been in the past and the conditions that we want to achieve. As part of this debate, it will be very useful to have very clear objectives of how to ensure flood security, where to give priorities for the construction of water infrastructure for the following years, and especially because you know that the financial perspective allows for as much European funding in this area as possible, and we need to draw on these resources, especially now that we are in this state of economic and financial crisis. Mr Ribič, I am very pleased that we have been given the opportunity to have an extensive debate and also these offers about handovers. I think today was the right time to point out what was wrong for us, what had been going on for four years, what had not been done, how the funds had been shared, and how we would deal in the National Assembly, how we would proceed in the future. I'm really looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič asked for the floor as the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I don't want any conflict with you, nor do I intend to surrender my responsibilities between us. You've been here for over a year, and since I've been alerting these things for the fourth time today, I'd expect something to happen. I have to say, somehow, that this ignorant relationship of yours in today's National Assembly on this subject shows that if we were to prepare ourselves for it, we would know that, in the area and the topic I am talking about even Podravje, from 1998, not in the previous term, when Minister Janez Podobnik, to whom I also publicly thank that it was in his mandate that the documentation for the flood basin between Maribor and Vurberk began to be prepared, and that it is now that you continue to do so, but, of course, more rapidly. Not from 1998 until then. In 1998, there were floods in our area, then there was a minister, who is also president of the National Assembly today, and I must say that he responded immediately to our invitation, and you came to look at it, and then we started to work together to clean up the Drava River. There have been many problems in between, probably also those we will discuss today at one of the next points on Natura 2000, and I have always advocated and suggested that we clean the Drava Strait, use the necessary material to build highways, because this would be very rational, and no one in this country has listened to it. That's why I'm sorry we haven't done this before. That is why I say that it is not the problem of the previous government and the present, but I am talking about it, and I wanted us to take some steps, because from 1998 to 2006 we are not. That's what I see as the biggest problem. But the reason I'm talking about disaster is because the Drava river is loaded, because it's too small a flow, and because it can't push the material in front of it, the material is loaded. And when there's more rainfall, then this water will cross the hills, it'll cross the hills on also the watercourses, like the Zhite Stream and the Cielen Strait, and then I'm predicting disaster, and I don't think that's wrong if I tell you about the right time in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. We probably all agree that a number of storms and resulting floods cause more problems and costs to all. However, it should be borne in mind that this is, in some ways, also a reflection of climate change. It is true, however, that this calls for reconsideration of the operation and organisation of water funds. It would also require further reflection on the use of water fund funds. I believe that the priority should be to regulate watercourses, increase flood safety and improve the water regime, which, as I have seen, is also agreed by Mr Minister, and I think that this is being taken seriously and is working in this direction. We should go less for investments in the construction of power plants, and we are probably all in agreement with that. Therefore, it would be necessary to verify the criteria and conditions for both the debtors of the fund and the criteria and conditions for receiving the funds of the fund. This would be some task the Ministry should carry out below. And resources should be allocated in a balanced manner across Slovenia in order to regulate watercourses, increase flood safety and improve the water regime. It's possible for an introduction. Secondly, when I listen to your discussions, I have found that everyone is dealing with some sort of kindergarten, someone with Drava, someone with Sava, but I think this debate is about a broader issue that we all need to be aware of. Climate change will in fact continue and the source of these disasters will increase and we must therefore look at the whole area. I have seen through these discussions that it limps again, as with several other implementations of legislation, the link between the departments, between the ministries. When more ministries, environmental, economic, agricultural, are required to cooperate, there is usually a hole or some inoperability, who is responsible for something, who has to intervene somewhere. I think it's one big flaw in this system. It's not the concept or the minister or the former minister. A few ministers back or shortly after their independence, in some way our country has decided to invest more in rehabilitation and to in some way neglect maintenance and, in fact, an ongoing interference with watercourses. This was a concept, and we discussed it several times on the Committee on the Environment. Whether this concept is good or not, a broader debate needs to be held. It should be borne in mind, however, that the beginning of some elementary accidents is usually the source of watercourses, and there has been a lot of neglect in this area in the last period or in the last 15 years. In fact, all the services that were dealing with the storms, with the beginnings of the watercourses, we kind of cut off, we kind of ignored on these elements, which kind of restrict this water force before it came, I would say, in this flat part -- we kind of abandoned it. All these facilities on the watercourses are failing, nothing is invested in maintenance, and there have been several reptiles in the last period, which are also due to this non-maintenance in the winding areas. Of course, there is a problem that also increases the damage of construction in flood areas, and we have talked about this many times. Therefore, it is also essential to accelerate the adoption of spatial plans that will sort out this issue. Now, it has been warned that more funds are being invested in energy facilities, but this concept is not from yesterday, this concept has a beard and, as I said, this concept has not been accepted by the current and former Minister, but this concept of investing in the construction of energy infrastructure has been adopted many years ago. Reliable at that time, natural disasters or climate changes were not as extreme as they are now and without purpose it is now to flout who is responsible for something, who should have done something. I think we need to think together about how to change the concept, because nature has proved to be stronger than the concept that we have set up and that it is the task of all of us. I think that the ministry is somehow competent to consider these measures and how to redirect the water fund to emergency maintenance and sanitation parts also on those watercourses that, at the next stage, also bring most of the water into those watercourses that you have been talking about and thus bring more burden, both by soldering and with all the other outlets that you have all talked about, that we will not be designing at this time. This is how I support this debate to open up other issues, but I do not agree that the ministry in this area does not carry out its task or sleep, but that the concept needs to be put in place in a broader and cross-cutting manner, and that it should also be updated in the right way and also prepared to be able to cope with the new disasters that are looking forward to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Tadej Slapnik will not discuss it. Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If a person took very seriously everything that was heard today and was told several times how happy we were that this debate had taken place, he would have thought that he had come to the party. And I say that we are at a meeting that talks about a very bad situation in the area we are talking about, but I stress that I am speaking optimistically, with mild words. I'm not happy and I'll tell you why not. I am just one of many more ten, probably the mayors of Slovenia, who have been pointing out years ago how bad we are in this area, how much we have to take on the role of the state in this area, so that the situation is not even worse, and how we also point out that there is no response to our appeals - not before, not now. I have met with key people on my own several occasions, making suggestions, writing about it, seeing it all went empty today, and that is why such serious debates need to be resumed with the hope that something will come to pass. As regards the fact that the debates that have been taking place over the years are, in fact, to illustrate the fact that, over the mayors we have warned about this, the GLOBE Parliamentary Group has also been pointing out this for many years that the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia has been an eminent expert group of people to remind everyone else of this. Today we have heard several times that there is also a parliamentary committee that is relevant to this area. But warnings must be addressed to what the water fund is and what the water law says about it. Let me just remind you very briefly, I will not quote, I merely reiterate that it is intended to provide a water fund for water infrastructure, for the construction of state and local infrastructure - not to forget local - not only state infrastructure; for state and local infrastructures to be responsible for the purchase of water and coastal land. We have also discussed the financing of the Institute for Waters of the Republic of Slovenia before, and it should also be pointed out that it is also responsible for the care of inter- and regional projects relating to the construction of pump facilities, filter facilities, water capture and portable water pipelines to meet the basic needs of people where there is no water and water. And in this area, almost nothing or little is happening. Indeed, the Water Fund is receiving relatively large resources. I've had data with me for the last decade, about as long as it exists. And a few more than 25 million in recent years, there's about 28 going around, and it's probably going to be like that this year, and we know what the structure of the resources is, who contributes to this water fund. Let me tell you one thing that might be interesting. 40%, a few small tenths of a percent less, contributes to the river Drava. One percent of all this has been received in recent years by the Drava River in terms of investment maintenance. Two hundred and fifty thousand euros a year! Those who know what water problems are, we know what is two hundred and fifty thousand euros a year for such a large area. It's almost nothing! Those who know what this is all about, of course we cannot be silent about it, we must keep alert. And I must point out that these funds are spent disproportionately with regard to the resources from which they are drawn, and inadvertently with regard to what the law provides and what this water fund is intended for. That is why we want to re-establish, first of all, respect for the rule of law in order to respect the Water Act. Let them respect the acts that speak of a water fund! If we respect this, there will be no need for any specific new strategy, then we already have a programme almost done. Then it is only necessary to operate, to identify which areas are from different aspects, whether water or flood, more threatened, to make a priority list, to agree politically within the Ministry, then within the government, and to present it as a project to be adopted by budgetary means, if this is necessary, if resources from the water fund are insufficient for this. To avoid thinking that way with us, another information speaks. I have before me some material that talks about the Water Management Centre, in Maribor has been in the past term, in the last year one of such established, is a torso - we do not know exactly what to do with it: it has no resources, has no powers. In short, it cannot do anything special, although it is a regional water management project on the Drava river basin as well as the Danube river basin. So it's a very important project that's standing there today. Their tasks are once again the tasks of the European Directives, the Water Directives, the Flood Directives and all those measures which should be provided for in relation to climate change and its consequences. Once again, almost nothing is happening. I think it is the first need for this to be a necessity for the Ministry of Environment and Space to think about what is written in our regulation, that is, what needs to be done to ensure conditions for this to be done, and of course to cooperate with those who know something about it; but we are the people who live by these waters, we are the people who lead the local communities around these waters, and the people who are mostly, some even decades long, dealing with these problems and it would even be possible for us to gain some experience or knowledge - if we wanted to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the President will not discuss it. Mr. Sylven Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As I mentioned in the presentation, Drava is growing and the stream is poured, and as a result, the floods, which are more each year, cause Drava to flood. The water management company Ptuj is responsible for maintaining the Drava River and its tributaries, which are poorly maintained and also flood. I don't know how much money is spent to maintain that, but I'm sure they get it as much as the annual programs do. And I see no reason not to trust Minister Erjavc that substantial funds have been made and used for these purposes. It would be good if spending money for these purposes were more transparent, as only in this case would the maintenance assessment be clearer. For a long time, there has been talk of a mound that will prevent floods, and people with Drava want it as soon as possible. Drava would have to be deepened or cleaned, and the material would be used to build roads. We are confidently hampered by Natura 2000, but we will still have to make an assessment and assess what is more important. As we have heard, the water fund is "heavy" 25 million. Of this, 15 million are earmarked for the lower Sava, where there are some superstandards, while others are forgotten and few fights remain. I believe that the feces that flow at every flood in gardens, courtyards, basements smell nothing, especially to people who repeat it year after year. That's why it would be good for people to listen. Clearly Drava is the most pressing problem, so it is also right to talk about her. Obviously, some people do not want Drava mentioned, for it appears that some of the financial cakes will be reduced and that it certainly hurts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I must say that we have opened up an interesting topic, although I am of course thinking that the Minister is within the scope of opportunity and competence, and in particular the money he has at this moment, has given the right answer already at the meeting of the National Assembly, but the waters are forever hot and still will. After a new fact, which I have said several times: those of us who were, the provinces under Mary Teresa, today can still be confident that the current system of maintenance of watercourses by standard was much better and higher than it is today, especially because it was then clear in the heads of everyone that the guide and the traveler must be in their place of work every day. The other truth is, of course, if we talk once about the lower Savi, once about the Drava, we will not go far. The fact is that funds are lacking for maintenance and rehabilitation of watercourses throughout Slovenia and everywhere. Drains fall differently than they did years ago, larger amounts of water fall at a shorter interval and the consequences are problems with earth's reptiles, problems with watercourses, but mainly old infrastructure. All those who are witnessing developments in this area after the disaster that has hit us and once again painfully reminded us from the railways forward that a move has been made in this area. There's been a shift, there's more work, there's more attention. We have also begun to think about this by the mayors, who are not happy at the time, but when our roads are at risk, let us take care of what is most urgent in order to avoid problems in the infrastructure that is undoubtedly our concern in the next step. The organisation of the system through water management companies and through repair and maintenance concessions certainly deserves some analysis, change and action. At one time, most of the works on Slovenian watercourses were carried out by a company called Puh, which is still 40 % of the country's property, but it does nothing for the country, there is no concession, it is left to the market, which is right to somewhere, because when we are looking for a contractor then those who do not have concessions are among the cheaper ones. The puh is a good performer, for example, but it is cheaper by 5% to 7%, which is not negligible to water management companies in that area. This is certainly one of the necessary reflections and truths to be addressed in the future. Above all, we have scissors and canvas in our hands, all of us Members: instead of overcoating, instead of asphalting, we will have to spend a few million euros in all future budgets to regulate watercourses, and then we will have to worry, and the fear of growing water will be significantly less than it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. When we passed a law on the basis of which we allowed Slovenian capital to build a chain of Sava power plants, we consciously decided that the source is also a water fund, but consciously that we are building this system with our own resources and thus retain as much power as possible on these energy sources within the country itself. So this is where national interest prevails. Under a great deal of question, what has been happening within energy in these years when we decided to build Savoi power plants has actually been happening and whether all of the resources from the water fund are actually invested in hydropower plants or for the use of hydropower, or whether there is something else at the same time at these hydropower plants. This raises the question of the intention of this source. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that everyone in Slovenia, every user who is connected to the public water network system, by using a letter or more of water, contributes their share to the position it receives, including to the water fund. We should be very serious today to ask ourselves whether these funds should also be invested in other areas where this need exists. But there's a need everywhere. It's not just about maintenance of watercourses like that. This is one of the outstanding issues during the entire period of Slovenia's independence, because we have never been able to successfully organise water management. This is one of the questions that has been following us all the time. In addition to managing watercourses, we have an obligation to provide healthy and clean drinking water, and this is also what we can invest in from the water fund. Today we are trying to apply for various European calls for acquisitions or cohesion funds or regional funds, so that we can either replace asbestos pipes or improve the cleaning technology, or we can perform rehabilitation in water protection areas, and we are preparing a number of large-scale projects, documentation that have not yet reached this stage, so that at the Ministry of the Environment or at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy we can have conclusions that would say, "You have a solution, you have the option, you have the permission, on which you will also obtain European funds for the rehabilitation of water systems or for improving the quality and stability of water supply as such." So instead of updating water systems with funds that are also collected and created on the basis of a sold liter of drinking water, many projects are being prepared, but they still do not have confirmation that we can actually do this. And here the question is being raised is whether it is not time to help all those who manage the water network and the municipalities that have such projects to benefit from the water fund, but not to prepare for some very questionable process that does not allow the European Union to draw funds to this end at this point. Other projects are also linked to maintaining both water quality in watercourses and thus indirectly in water networks. In fact, the construction of sewerage networks is one of those which is also trying to be financed by European Union funds and, on the other hand, there is still a question here whether we still have enough of these resources available by 2013 and whether these procedures for the approval of these projects to the Ministry of the Environment and the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy are sufficiently quickly completed so that we can also draw on these funds by 2013. Many projects with a building permit are waiting for a green light right now and this is one of the current issues. One such project is certainly also the river bank of Krka 2, the second phase waiting for us to get a conclusion from the Ministry of the Environment that we can draw on European funds. And what can happen if this decision is not reached? By 2013, these measures will not be implemented, and we will even have to pay compensation because we have committed ourselves to the European Union to do so and, on the other hand, we are currently funding a chain of power plants that can be financed to a large extent by means provided within the energy system. Last but not least, I don't think hiring credits for energy is a major problem at all today. All banks certainly see this as a safe investment and that it would be possible to obtain significantly more resources in this system and not to use these funds to expand the water network or to improve the quality of water as such. These are the issues that we will have to seriously discuss and not least decide, but unfortunately, only the debate on this in the Parliament in the context of the parliamentary question does not allow for concrete decisions. Therefore, this debate is important, so that we can draw particular attention to this problem, which we have been alerting for many years but will not have any concrete effects. Therefore, it would be more appropriate, as did colleague Berda Pecan, to suggest that we talk about this on the working body and that we also draw up appropriate conclusions and guidelines, which, of course, we then try to follow and also prepare certain acts or laws to actually do so. However, in the context of this debate, I believe that these warnings were necessary, and we hope that we will be able to continue this debate at the working bodies of the National Assembly and, most likely, at the meeting itself, if a law is adopted in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss. Mr. Allen Bukovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable and Honourable Minister. At the last meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I confirmed my own proposal by fellow Member Janez Ribič when he proposed that his question be addressed to the Minister of the Environment at the next meeting of the National Assembly, an extensive discussion on water fund issues and financing of projects from the Water Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself estimate that over the last few years we have witnessed huge transfers of resources collected in the water fund to just certain parts of our country. Two starting points should be discussed here; for the first time, the funds pooled into this water fund are mainly pooled from entities that were built as water infrastructure in certain parts of Slovenia. And the funds pooled into the water fund from these entities are, of course, intended to maintain the same water structure that was established in this part of the country and should also be maintained from these resources. Secondly, we are witnessing the allocation of funds from the water fund for the construction of buildings that have little to do with the water fund and the water fund itself. In preparing for this debate, I also referred to the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which is a representative representative of all local communities or of those who are associated in this community and are members, who also at yesterday's Presidency found that a number of storms and resulting floods in various areas of Slovenia, which reflect climate change, call for a re-examination of the functioning and organisation of the water fund. There is also a need for a new and further reflection on the use of the same water fund. Priority should be given to regulating watercourses, increasing flood safety and improving the water regime and not to investment projects for the construction of power plants. That is why the Presidency of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia adopted a decision at yesterday's meeting calling on the Ministry of the Environment, after urgent verification of the criteria and conditions for debtors of payment to the Fund, as well as the criteria and conditions for the adoption of the Fund's funds. I also join the initiative that water fund funds should be prioritized in Slovenia to regulate watercourses, increase flood safety and improve the water regime. It is true that the investment maintenance and investment programme in water infrastructure to ensure flood safety and regulate the water regime was developed on the basis of the initiatives and proposals of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the local communities collected in 2005 and published in the work material of the Water Fund programme for the period 2006-2011. Community municipalities and other representatives were not involved in the preparation of the programme at that time. However, as today the consequences of climate change are much more pronounced than they were in 2005, the debate itself calls for a review of the criteria and conditions for the water fund, the payment and use of water fund resources. I also propose to invite the professional public, the Agency for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the local community, both representative associations of local communities, this is the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, and perhaps any other experts I have left out on this occasion. To avoid the disastrous consequences of ignoring this issue, we must react now and immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers, co-workers and co-workers in the National Assembly. Surely the point that we are considering today is one of the very important points, as it speaks of the financing of water infrastructure from the water fund. We all note that climate change, which is taking place on the entire surface of the earth, has had a very serious impact. For the concentration of precipitation occurs in a certain area, as well as in a certain, usually very short period of time, quite differently than it did in the past. We are witnessing numerous floods, floods and damage that occur on the basis of such climate conditions. In my opinion, the area of anti-half protection in the Republic of Slovenia will be one of the areas to which much more time will have to be devoted in the future, probably also resources, and in particular the ability to choose certain environments to take necessary measures, such as individual water reservoirs, so that we will not be affected by the urbanisation of Slovenia, by the construction of infrastructure facilities, residential facilities and by the rapid draining of these waste water into the watercourses, that the flow will increase enormously from year to year with such large flows. I come from an environment in which we were very actively aware of these consequences at the end of the 1990s, because Posavje was a witness both in 1990 and in 1999 two very large floods, when all Slovenian watercourses, with the exception of Soča and Drava, came to Posavje and we were well watered. This was also the basic reason that, when we placed the energy facilities that were then speeding up in our space, the real hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava was placed as the first and basic condition that the anti-half safety of the Sava River should also be regulated when such facilities were placed. Today this project is successfully carried out, because from the Wall Bridge to the Krk Bridge, if I may say so, one part is already built and the other part is being built. According to the concession contract, this project is expected to reach the Croatian border itself by 2015 and provide the necessary retension areas on the Krske field so that these excess water can also be spilled on agricultural surfaces. We have basically this ambition to protect settlements against 100-year-old waters. I am also monitoring the use of the water fund and it is clear to me all the time that the share consumed in the Posavina area of the visa of the whole of Slovenia is very large. I also think that we can also be partially exposed and say that in the past we have very often seen a large proportion of those 6 billion tolars, today these 25 million euros, remain untapped and simply transferred from year to year, and also those projects that would provide flood protection in other parts of the Republic of Slovenia have obviously not been made. Therefore, from this point of view, on my part, I also appeal to the water industry that it is a little more determined in such matters to actually prepare these implementation projects and that this flood protection and regulation of watercourses is governed by current state-wide rules than just some intervention measures when floods occur. As regards the many hydropower plants mentioned today, and also the drawing of these funds, I think that the Minister, the Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the concessionaire, is holding the Slovenian power plants or the company established in this group for this purpose, has a very serious task of determining whether this division, which was appropriate at the time of granting the concession contract, is appropriate. The concession contract divides the boundary between the protection of the flood and the energy efficiency of the river. so that it can be seen in some way after the revision of this project whether anything needs to be changed, otherwise it is probably a common task to provide funds for this flood protection when the hydroelectric power plants are built. We have been alone many times, including in discussions with representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and in the past, in search of resources for this. It is not necessarily necessary for these resources to be the only source, so serious and tangible, of the water fund, in addition to the credit funds that the infrastructure goes for this purpose, but to reflect on the use of the funds from the sale of CO2 emission vouchers, it has also been considered to a large extent whether such a project, which is ongoing, is also a project that would be suitable for inclusion in European cohesion projects, since flood protection and these activities are certainly part of this part. So I think that everything is waiting for a lot of work, the water industry, to prepare as many projects as possible, to systematically launch watercourse regulation, to be so active that even without Savoy power plants, it will be able to spend these 25 million a year so that they will not remain in the budget. On the other hand, if the hydropower plant project is at the bottom of the Sava, a project that will need other resources for this part of the flood protection in order to carefully look for these suitable resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Wanted for a while. I agree with most of the debaters, but I would only like to draw attention to some of the debates. I do not agree with those who claim that the door to the nose should be convened by the Committee on Environment and Space and discussed on this issue, because we have also started this at two meetings this year, both in April and in June. We have not only become familiar with the tasks, objectives and challenges of water management, but we have also adopted, with the cooperation of a number of experts, even in my opinion, very good and quality conclusions. And it is up to us to monitor the implementation of these conclusions, which have also been adopted by the Committee. Second of all, I wouldn't take criticism if there was no data. Members and members of the Committee on Environment and Space have received very high quality materials to address this item on the agenda, and this material has also been presented at the meeting itself, in my opinion, very qualitatively, and this presentation has also led to these conclusions that we adopted on the Committee. I do not agree with the fact that we want Members to share or care only for certain water areas, I am in favour of taking a full look at the problem and that there are also solutions in this direction. As far as the initiative is concerned [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] on the Water Fund, I think that the Seventh Decision of the Committee on the Environment gives a clear reference to both the Ministry and the Government to amend the relevant legal bases. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! At the time of Mr Kopač's ministry, when he took energy or electricity from Maribor to Ljubljana, a number of things changed, but not for the better - essentially for the worse. In 2002, under Article 162 of the Waters Act, the Water Fund was established as a dedicated budget item and it states that the resources in the Water Fund are earmarked for the adoption of the State budget and that the Water Fund Programme is approved by the Minister of State - and with it the responsibilities of the Ministry of Environment and Space in the field of water management and regulation. Well, and then it says, "water fund funds are used for the following investments." These four indents do not mention that they are also useful for the construction of infrastructure. Of course, it is not obvious to the Minister now, but not to the previous one, but it is a government policy that simply decides that there will be some means - as my colleague before me, Mr Bogovic, has already said - intended to build energy on the Sava. Out of the EUR 25 million on these items, more than 45% of these funds were spent on something else in 2006. This means investing in energy and, of course, in the 2009 budget slightly over 70%, in 2010 slightly over 60% again, which is certainly not good and is not the purpose of Article 162 of the Water Act or the task of the Water Fund. This debate is and will be, if you want, even every month in a row because there are simple floods, because they happen all the time, from month to month, and people don't just hold it up or hold it back. I'm going to go a little bit more detail on one of the tributaries that I'm going to talk about later. Well, but look if the water management issues and perspectives that my former client colleague has now addressed at the 2nd meeting, held on 20 March 2007, with the title Problems and Perspectives of Water Management in Slovenia. And where something has been taken, I believe that even ten conclusions have been reached during the Presidency of the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Franz Lobnikar. And if these ten conclusions were taken into account, and if governments had prepared a projection of the use of water funds in accordance with these ten conclusions, I am sure that many floods and many other beaches today would not have been that a lot of agricultural land would have been either dried or irrigated and that, of course, the production of Slovenian farmer's Slovenian food - of course domestic - would have been bigger and more bearable. But unfortunately none of this is taken into account. That way, these twenty-five million euros could be used in a useful and urgent way. Only when we are talking about a problem that arises because of this also in the area of beaches in Slovenia, which we do not control. Not only do we not control them, we do not save them! Well, they just happen. And then what? So! And that's it. I hope that today's debate will lead to the fact that the Minister of Environment and Space at the government meeting will be able to hit the table and will say, "Listen, with such a budget as we have proposed for 2010 and 2011, it will not work," or at the time of the government's budgetary debate, it will be able to amend and find or find energy resources elsewhere or, of course, to provide at least significantly more resources for the water fund to address from 1 to 10 decisions already adopted in 2007 or from the law itself, where it states what water fund funds can and must be used for." You know, it's never good that I'm not going to use an ugly term, but I should use it, not as the President of the government said at some of his client meetings, "krucifix," but I should say something worse - this beautiful and generous and best centralisation. Thank God we have centers, central power and centralization, and it's a shame that we don't have a central committee anymore, because it kind of smells like a total. Yesterday I listened to the Reports that they celebrated the 20th anniversary of the fall of communism, and I asked myself, dear Slovenia and Slovenia, where is the celebration of our "jammoth revolution". I'm afraid she's not, because she wasn't, because there's still a lot left of us, just like it used to be 20 years ago. This is why it is wrong and only normal, good and better if we had regions to move these things to regional authorities and regions to manage them and that would also make citizens and citizens much better. Since we experienced four floods in the Poet area this year, which lasted from 12 to 26 days - that is, every spill lasted so long - I will also talk about this particular case. You probably understand that this is not a matter of one congregation or a local interest, but it is a broader, national one, because that is why we all have great damage. So, of course, many changes are made along the Poet River. And why is it changing? Firstly, reliable due to interference in the space, then due to the contraction of the retention surfaces, then due to the non-maintainment of the system of basic and secondary drainages and the non-recovery of built-in restraints. And that no one will tell me that climate change does not affect this - of course they do. Well, the analysis has shown that the greatest impact on the deterioration of the Hydrological Regime in the Song and the reduction of its flood and erosion security is the lack of maintenance or inadequate maintenance of the entire Pesnica drainage network. The construction of the motorway from Maribor to Lendava affected the Posnica even more, both by the construction of the highway and then by the permanent influence and then also by the retention influence. Well, if we're talking about the impact that was at the time of construction, it's a reliable disposal of a variety of materials in the shafts, in secondary drainage, in the reservoir lakes and so on. Although this was somewhat cleaned after the highway was built, it was far from complete. And that's why this year, as I mentioned, there were four times the floods, which are all the agricultural production on the side of the Song, which has a ca. Eight hundred hectares of agricultural land, flooding and causing enormous, enormous damage. What should be done in this particular case? If we were to choose for these water-retainers, we would need between thirty thousand cubits and forty thousand, depending on whether they would go from ten to one hundred years. And if we did, I don't know a twenty-five-year-old retainer, we'd need a cca. 35,000 cubic holders. Unfortunately, however, colleagues and colleagues, this is not the case. Well, let's move on. In this love Poet there was this technique in this accumulation, in Pirnica, this technique, it was built and so on, but it retains up to ten years of water, so to speak. But some other problem is, all that's above two or three-year-old waters that come across the Poet is simply flooding. But they flood because the Poet is not maintained and because it is misplaced, all the other tributaries, the southern rim and the cornea, and so on. Something of this happened in the southern peripheral ditch or around Rogoznica, but who? Local community. When? Yeah, when they were rehabilitating some local road. Why is that? Because they had to make a bridge over it. At the same time, of course, local leaders demanded of local communities what they needed to invest and what to do. Well, look, Mr. Minister, when the Song of Solomon was regulated, according to the projects, it was envisaged that the Poet itself would be able to swallow with these 50-year-old water ditches. Today, it no longer consumes five - year - old waters, just for all these reasons that I have been talking about. And, of course, it must be said that from 1990 onward this system is also on state roads, because before me one mentioned that once it was known, the guide and the traveler must be every day, every hour, twenty-four hours, three hundred and fifty-five days in their place. And since this is happening, I'm going to say, it's gone, it's happening to us as these disasters are happening to us. Mr Minister, I hope we're helping you out of the opposition, because the coalition hasn't liked you since the beginning. In the opposition, however, you would like, but you have only a few options and some power, even because of this parliamentary debate, to say that this is no longer the way to go or that you will not be able to go along with this coalition of stories, because the material damage in this area is simply too much and too much. Floods and storms that happened last year. Ministers of the current government have not implemented the conclusions adopted by the previous government, and indeed, for the immediate elimination and, of course, the consequences that have arisen, at least partially in the field of education, have not been realized in the field of agriculture, but in the field of the environment, as I see from the budget, they have collected 60%, 70%, and then do with those figurines, if you can do anything. But you know, and also this time, thank you, on behalf of all the Slovenians, the Goricians, etc., when you came to see for yourself last year, I will say, the accidents that have taken place and how this nation has actually suffered. Today, Minister, we have, unfortunately, still, because someone doesn't do something about the tons of saloons that people have set up as they were told. I have to say that 70% of this has gone away and this has been arranged with the previous government, now that the government has changed, I don't blame you, because of that, not by any chance, but simply in the concept I don't know what's going on, things don't go as they should. The rainforest calmly, but the polyvinyl has long since collapsed, washes this saloon and runs quietly into the groundwaters, etc. Minister, understand that the object of the opposition in this debate is to get in this area, before the 2010 budget adopted, significantly more resources so that the leaders, farmers, everyone, can make their own. I also agree with those who say that it would be essential for the congregations and local communities to engage more. Believe that with regard to the maintenance of the local community with half the money, I will not say twice as much, but five times more, because we trust them with one euro to make five, not like now when some maintenance workers come from somewhere, but they come first to the congregation, on which side we have to go, where we have to get to these ditches to maintain it. In short. Let today's debate be, I'll say, the beginning of a new cycle in the maintenance of elementary matters, that's water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Minister, since this is not the Water Fund, it is about money and it is about money that is truly urgent to use strictly. I believe that you have good intentions, that you have sincere desires, that this money is also used and intended for those purposes that have a legal basis. Of course, today I would like to see some of your officials who do so many times on their own. Believe me, I have had some experience in the past term with some officials who have tried to get things past the law and have succeeded. I'm saying this because I'd like to have something on the table today. I was expecting something, but unfortunately we didn't get it. Above all, I would like to have an assessment of the status of the Water Fund programme for the period 2006 to 2011. Nuts of this state. We know that this document exists, that it is a binding document and at least one interim assessment, which things are still being realized, which are not, why not? In short, should this programme, in force from 2006 to 2011, also be amended due to other climate change changes? I believe that today's debate will also help to encourage the officials of the Ministry responsible for this area to take this into account, however, some of the new criteria, some of the new facts arising from the climate change that we see and know that they are increasingly present. When we talk about the Drava River and the Sava River, about two rivers that we may have used up to the maximum or not for electricity from water sources, we are left with the Mura River, which we did not reach because of environmental criteria. Maybe that's right or not, time will tell. But when we are talking about the resources that the river is being used to bring to the common water fund the resources that are being allocated from this title, it would certainly be worth mentioning that at least those directly along the Drava River, the Sava River, would receive some major rehabilitations so that they would not talk about it. And I'm really afraid of the area from Maribor to Duplek, Dogsham, all against Ptuj because in Ptuj, there's a huge accumulation lake filled with mud, which could have catastrophic consequences. I think that we are not aware of this enough and that all too much of this money is leaking unjustifiably and we are not aware of the consequences that it brings, if I now specify again, the Ptuj Lake. A bird's lake is one of the largest accumulating lakes capable of causing a major disaster in some catastrophic rains. Starting immediately from Maribor all the way to Ptuj or towards the Croatian border. I think that this profession is under-aware or draws attention to matters, and politics is so strong that it is cleverly hiding. I really want today's debate to bring about positive progress and understanding of the most responsible in this area, and, of course, I appeal to the current Minister of the Environment and Space so that today's debate can truly be passed on to its closest co-workers and co-workers at the Ministry. To really tackle this burning problem in a serious way, quickly enough not to witness earlier some catastrophic consequences that we can certainly expect from the following. God forbid this should happen, but I believe that we are witnessing great climate change and that we can expect it sooner rather than later. I therefore appeal once again that today's debate, however, should bring sober reflection and concrete steps in this area so that we do not face some catastrophic consequences and human casualties tomorrow. It's for fear and there's no money and there's not, I'll say, someone who can apologize later. But we knew it couldn't be done. It was different, the program was different, and so on and so on. Let's take this seriously, things aren't so uniform, they're not so simple. First of all, the Drava River is very dangerous in the second part of its current from the Zlatoličje hydropower plant, and I understand my colleague Janez Ribič, who highlighted it, it's not about any principle, it's not about any political promotion, it's about too serious things, which also have consequences for maintaining human lives and preventing the natural disaster of the worst dimensions. [[...]] Let us be aware of this and believe that if we do it in time, we will also be able to prevent what we fear most. These are disasters that result in human life as a result of water shortages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's not here.]] Lois Posedel. Milan Chad. Marian Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mr Minister, with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. I am pleased that we have voted that today we have a debate on the financing of water and water infrastructure from the Water Fund. This is a major problem in Slovenia. Despite the fact that Slovenia lies in an area where drinking water and certain things should not be a problem. We need to be aware that there are only eight drops of drinking water on the ground, for comparison. It is therefore important for this ministry to deepen and work on how to save drinking water. We'll be able to save the drinking water if we can save certain rivers so they don't swim, so it doesn't get to the submersibles. I come from the Slovenian Mountains, where we have a major drinking water problem. After all, the river Pesnica is a river that runs across Slovenia all the way to Ormož. The Song River swims many times, at least twice a year. The public water pipeline in the Slovenian Mountains still runs 30% through asbestos pipes. This is precisely why the river Pesnica and groundwater spills, the pollution of waters from local water lines, as well as asbestos, which comes to Slovenia's Gorica and beyond. I would like to draw attention to the problem of how to solve the problem. The Minister said earlier that EUR 30 million of the money from this work was spent. I suggest there must be at least twice as many. It is his task to be able to defend his work properly, the Minister's Department in the government structure. With these bites, which are increasing in recent times, there is co-financing in Slovenian Gorica, and some damage is being suffered in these stings. It's a bottomless bag. This is why it is important to go to the rehabilitation of the Song River, which was repaired in 1960 and 1967. She was very badly cured. The Poet River needs to expand, for this water will have no place to spill and will run away from Ormož and so on in this stream. It is also important that we actually get to this rescue as soon as possible, the spread of the Song of Solomon, because people on this river suffer great harm. There has also been a major problem with the motorway being placed in this area. In fact, this water now remains for 10 days and more in this area at the time of the outflow, at the foot of the fist. It stays for a long time, this water goes into the groundwater, but it can't be poured back into the stream of the Poet. Therefore, please ask as Slovenian Minister and his department to actually study these things and actually take one step forward. We must be aware that Slovenian mountains are also part of Slovenia, where we live, that it is not only Ljubljana country in the country. I believe that the ministry will listen and that the Minister will have so many things to at least double these means for the recovery of such disasters, which have been happening recently in the Slovenian Mountains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Damian Perne. [[He's not here.]] Milenka Ziherl. [[He's not here.]] Willie Trophynic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that the debate has so far been quite a quality and also a performance by the Minister, who himself assessed the essence of the problem. The main problem is that there is an unacceptable spillage of funds. We cannot say for unintended purposes, but certainly for less important purposes, to the detriment of the regular maintenance of watercourses. This was also the original purpose of the question raised by Comrade Ribič, and this was also the purpose of those who opened the debate. Of course, I reject those debates that have now been back on the side of the coalition - the opposition, because this has nothing to do with it, is a serious problem that requires serious intervention. I do not agree with those warnings or positions that this debate is not necessary and that it could be equivalent on the Committee. You know how it is with the committees, forgive the expression, but who else takes the committee decisions seriously in this country. Even the conclusions of the National Assembly are taken lightly by many. I could discuss this and I will not prove it in this matter. I had more illustrations prepared, and before that, my colleague Willy Rezman took them off, so I'm not going to repeat them. The essence of today, now the first half or first act of Drama, the second comes, is the inadmissible spill of accumulation, in terms of financial accumulation, from the area of the Drava River to some other areas in Slovenia. This is the essence of all the problem, which is why there remain negative consequences that would not be necessary because the funds in that territory are enough to deal with the most pressing near Drava and elsewhere. I think that some working bodies will have something to do in order to draw up, on the basis of today's debate, appropriate conclusions that should not be adopted on the working bodies, but that they should be adopted by the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as an intervention measure, because something must be done. Obviously, this is no longer possible in the debates and decisions on this budget because we did not have the relevant data available to force any appropriate amendments. But I'm still going back to the original definition: The Water Fund is the budget fund. The core of the budget fund is the protection of earmarked resources against the so-called integral budget for expenditure. And if I come from the data mentioned by the minister that someone "wants" EUR 5 million from the collected, this is information that says that someone does not respect the definition or regulation of what the budget fund is. I don't mean the Minister here now, but the ones who "want" 5 million. Therefore, it is also clear to me, irrespective of the decision I myself have proposed to the Committee on Finance, that we should have a final account by the plenary session if you would also like the budget or the financial plan of this Fund. This should be so prepared and it must be to press the button and it is written at the moment, but not to "prepare it and bring it to us at some point". Well, there was some information. I'll tell you directly. For my criteria, the decision that was well mentioned here today, as a national interest, to build power plants on the lower Sava itself, was questionable, I will kindly say. Why? Because we don't have the resources to do this anymore, and when you don't have the resources, you go by definition into the concession relationship, but in the real concessional relationship. And you don't give a quasi concession to a state firm, and then this state-owned company "pump" with state money on all sides, and you're pumping it to the detriment of all the other programs. This is the essence of building and of this national interest. I do not want any conflict here, regional or in terms of the Sava River Basin against the Drava Basin, far from it. But we must be aware of this, the price of electricity based on the costs of any hydropower plant is so low and cheap that it can be upgraded with obligations arising from the regulation of watercourses. And if that were the case, we know what the discussions were between a foreign and a domestic concessionaire, but the fact is that we did not have the resources available to be responsible domestic investors. Then we turned it into a kind of a multi-faceted national interest, and now we have the result - that we are spilling, that we will be able to talk about later, we are also flowing from the electricity price created at eight Drava power plants. This is not the market price that we use, this is some kind of transfer price that is charged to each other internally in Holding and has nothing to do with the market price, and again we are sending ourselves a fog if you want to talk about the river and it's about spilling again. For spilling as an inadequate price recognised at a production price in terms of, or if you want, a market that is not here, in internal accounting, then we are also overflowing the accumulation in Drava power plants, and at the end of the water fund we are reflowing 40% of the collected funds, and at the end we get 1% back. And that's the point of the problem. And if it is blasphemous for a lot of people to be debated in the National Assembly in order to change these things, I fully agree with the Minister that this relationship must be resolved as soon as possible. Therefore, he will also have to assist or act as an appropriate National Assembly within the framework of his mandate. Because if not, then those who refused or co-responsible would have done so in the past. Now without the desire for controversy or misinterpretation, I can't agree that there was money in the water pool and that's why the opportunity had to be invested. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	Mr. Janez Ribič has the word - no, you're giving up. Mr. Franco Yuri, too. All right, thanks. Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. At the very least, I expected some envy or "fossier" in this discussion to be aroused by domestic, Slovenian, Styrian Members or all Members of Parliament, who are near Drava because the money from the water fund was intended to build the water infrastructure of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. In fact, it has been somehow felt a few times before, but it has never been as clear as I have just heard from one of the Members. I think this conclusion is wrong. I am once again convinced and today's debate did not deny that the water fund was powered by projects that were prepared to the extent that they were feasible and that they were so-called'ready to go'. I am very sorry that there were no such projects elsewhere in Slovenia and that there was no other pressure on this fund from the necessary investments in water infrastructure. And it was then the one who provided financial resources to build water infrastructure on the lower Sava, before a dilemma, or to take these funds that are there, but not so few, or to leave them there and to rent a loan and actually finance, debt, something that could be financed by funds that are in this frame of reference. In particular, the fact that, due to this water infrastructure that was being built, the construction of hydroelectric power plants was due to a concessional levy on the full water fund. In fact, I do not know any other infrastructure, water infrastructure, which would result in a significant inflow to this same fund due to construction. However, I am not saying that there is no need to regulate many water infrastructures everywhere, thereby mitigating the consequences of storms, floods and wild waters. Done. However, this investment is one of the rare returns, where the euro invested in water infrastructure is fully recovered over 26 years. I fully agree that it is necessary to find a model for financing water infrastructure in the construction of hydropower plants. I couldn't agree more. I'm having a hard time listening to some people here, but if it's one energy that's building. All energy is state-owned, building the lower-seat chain. It's not privately owned either. And a piece of it! Is it not normal that the budget funds and the economy help each other with a project that is in everyone's interest, which follows the interest of energy purposes, including flood protection, water treatment and finally water retention in Slovenia? I think, but the worst thing for Slovenia is that the water in Sava will go uncontrollably from Slovenia forward. It needs to be kept here for the purposes of agriculture, for the needs of groundwater and water resources and so on. All of this is achieved through this project. Is it not right for the State to provide a certain source and method of financing this? I think it's right. It is also true that the country provides funding sources for other emergency water infrastructure projects that are all over Slovenia; in Drava, Gorenjska, Primorska, Dolenjska and everywhere. And once again, I conclude with this, at least what I expected -- some jealous, "fowshar" view of the Styrians against Posavje.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	He wants to speak to the Minister for Environment and Space?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that time has passed for Members to discuss. The debate was a long, quality one, but it would still be good if, at the conclusion of this debate, the National Assembly adopted some conclusions, otherwise the debate went to waste. From today's debate, we can see that the real problem is the under-resources intended to build a water infrastructure that is supposed to provide flood safety, which is also intended to ensure the construction of various energy facilities. Personally, I note that the problem that we have is the law that was adopted with regard to the terms of the concession for the exploitation of energy potential in the lower Sava, which provides for the use of funds from the water fund. This law makes it possible to favour one area and therefore I am not surprised that the debate took place in this direction as it is, and that now there are also accusations, I do not know that the Styrians are "fowš" Posavje and vice versa. However, the fact is that the means to ensure some flood security throughout Slovenia are not that it is a matter of debate as to whether we will provide some minimum flood safety evenly across the entire territory of Slovenia or whether we will build in such a way that we will first arrange the lower Sava, ensure all that is necessary, even certain standards, and that we will then adopt again a new law that will favour another area where we can provide this superstandard. But I think we have a problem here. We know that the water fund uses almost two-thirds of its resources only for the lower Sava, but we know that we have very serious problems in other areas as well. And Members, you are the ones who decide the laws, the ones you can change, the ones you can complement. And without these changes, I do not imagine that we will be able to plan anything else in terms of programmes under the Water Fund, because the law is clear because the law specifies exactly how this is done. I would also appeal that, for example, it is incomprehensible for me to raise about €30 million and that €5 million remain in the integrated budget and that money is lost. But we know that the needs in this area are very high. Therefore, it may also suggest that certain conclusions be adopted in this direction. As I said about lending, if this dynamic continues, I guarantee that Infra will no longer be able to do anything but service these loans, and it is likely that consideration should be given to how to repay this loan, because otherwise I think Infra will lose the role it was set up for. If there are no conclusions from this whole debate, we can see that the debate was quality, that we have had a frank discussion, but at the end of the debate there will be no concrete results, because we also have cases that have been legally misled. I said, we have a special marriage. This special law gives the lower Savi a special position. It's up to you to decide how to proceed. It is true, as I have said, that the adoption of the 2010-2011 budget is ahead of us, unfortunately, the resources in the budget lines, which are intended for flood safety, are not enough for all these needs. It is true that we are in a serious financial crisis, an economic crisis, but it is true that we are very much at risk, what if something happens in the sense of some serious natural disaster I do not imagine what these consequences can be. Therefore, as Minister of Environment and Space, I can only ensure that we can maximize all the ongoing projects, including the project that Mr Ribič was talking about. I hope that by 2011 this matter will be resolved in such a way that this flood security will be ensured. And, as I said, we must use all the options we have at our disposal, from the budget resources, from the resources coming from the Water Fund, from the European funds, and perhaps also consider putting more pressure on all those who have water concessions. Water is becoming a strategic asset, water is not self-evident. I am convinced that it is precisely that Slovenia is rich in water, that this is one great development advantage, which has one great development potential. However, if this potential is to be maintained, we must invest back in this potential. Therefore, I believe that those who exploit this potential need to recover so much money to allow these resources to be managed in a sustainable way, because this is the advantage Slovenia has. True, the past in this area was as it was. I wouldn't talk about responsibility and guilt, this area hasn't been given much attention. The demand for energy investments was high, there were no resources, but various options were sought to implement these projects. Given that the next item will be similar, it is, in fact, an even more detailed consideration of the same problem, I am sure that we will be dealing with this subject today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Rybič as a proposaler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Once again, I would like to thank you for allowing me to discuss this topic today in our country here, in the National Assembly. I must say that I have not heard from any Member of Parliament that I would speak of any 'funger' that something is happening in Zasavje, but not in the Podrav region. Therefore, there is no need for Mr Visionary to be afraid or hurt, for if he were, I would be concerned. Well, I would like to add that in the month of June before the last floods in the municipality of Duplek, which were in the month of August this year, you answered my questions, Mr Minister, with the following words and figures: "Let me say that in the 2009 budget rebalancing, funds amounting to a maximum of more than EUR 25 million have been made available to us at this moment, we have spent 7.5 million euros. However, I have to say that the overtime by the end of 2009 amounts to €14.4 million, so that we will spend it in every way. Let me say that the current initialling of the contract is EUR 4.7 million under the Infra business plan, which is the completion of work on this water infrastructure at Blanca Hydropower Plant. How much water fund resources will be allocated to water treatment and treatment? I must say that we do not allocate these funds from the Water Fund, but we have a specific budget item, so we do not use this fund for these purposes. And I think that's the right thing to do." Then it was also said: "We will provide these funds, as agreed, from the budget reserve, but in the stream of the Drava River and in it, and in the inflows of the Živce brook and the Strait of Brick that are flooding nothing is happening." As we know that we cannot take some conclusions here today, I would like to draw a summary of the debate on the financing of water infrastructure from the water fund. I propose that funds be increased under the Water Fund item and that these funds be spent for water purposes and for investments and maintenance in this area. It should also increase the control and control of resources intended for the maintenance of watercourses and the control of those performing maintenance works of their prices, whether such prices as those on the market, way and quality of work. If something doesn't move in a short time, I'm going to publicly demand the responsibility of those responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, I really want us all to contribute to this improvement together. My activities are not an attack on the current minister, but a request for assistance to the environment from which I come. I am pleased, however, that my efforts have also been supported by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, which has tabled amendments to the budget for the following year to increase funds to the water fund. I hope that you will support our amendments and thus save the population along the Drava River from the fear of floods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate with this. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the application. Mr. Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Just what I ran out of time for. Why were the "remaining" funds in line for water? Unfortunately, because we had a machete relationship with the water profession from the very beginning of our own country. At that time, the so-called green policy in this area has prevailed and there have been virtually no serious maintenance works on the watercourses since. Nor were there adequate grounds when the Water Fund was established to assess the costs as usual, as this is due to such or other implementation. You need to be aware of that. This draws us, but then we saw or saw some of the opportunity that through it already in writing the law, the basic problem is, I think article 163 of the Water Act, which allows this inflow into some infrastructure that is underdefined. [[...]] I deeply agree with the Minister that this border is very questionable. In order to avoid this conflict between Sava and Drava, some people here speak in a reasoned manner, or it is not good to get rid of it and so on. You know, those of us living next to Drava, we had to save this with our own resources. Because of the last power plant, I'm going to say specifically, Formin fell under Formino, which is also in the closet area, a submersible for a few meters. And all the hydrogens will have to be reconstructed, upgraded with technologies that are the only ones in Slovenia, which draw water from Drava, we clean it well and expensive, although investors at the power plant spoke and wrote that the so-called membrane was protected by the drainage channel to reduce groundwater. Look at the fragment, 1991, when we were attacked by tanks from Varaždin and when the Croats found that they could get rid of these tanks by flooding them, letting the water out of the reservoir of the Ormoje lake and watering the tanks, then the colonel, later General Popov, left us in six hours without drinking water, because all the springs in the water cover were dried. No one helped, no state fund, no tolar, no euro, so let's be careful. I don't explain it as an obvious statement, but as a counter-argument to what the Minister didn't say. And I strongly agree with him that in some other areas, we go beyond standard to the detriment of the water fund. In principle, I have no objection to over-standard municipal and infrastructure solutions, but it is necessary to find the right resources to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All that was said by Comrade Visjak when he spoke is to be respected. The mammals were able to secure funds such as they were, and to secure, as Minister Erjavec said, a superstandard. I believe that such priorities would also bring a different picture to the Styrians if they had a minister in previous times to help invest in the water fund in Styria's problems. The Styrians aren't "freakers," but we're different, which also happens when they bother. And it's only right that this thing ends once and for all and that, I think the minister will know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is the debate on the reply of Minister Karl Erjavc to the business question of William Trophynik in connection with the special use of water and the payment of concessions. At its 10th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by Environment and Space Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec to the question of the special use of water and the payment of concessions. I give the floor to Mr Willi Trofenik to further explain the request for a discussion on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. That there will be no time distress. In March 2003, a regulation was adopted by the Government on the concession for the use of the Drava River for the production of electricity at the section from Austria to the Croatian border. There are eight hydroelectric plants on this section: Dravograd, Vuzenica, Vuhred, Ozbolt, Fala, Maribor Island, Zlatoličje and Formin. Concession's been split for 50 years. Under the Government Regulation, the concessionaire must pay a concession fee of 10% of the value of the electricity produced. The concession fee shall be divided between 40:60 % between the Republic of Slovenia and the local communities in which the hydroelectric power plants are located. Among the local communities themselves, 30% relative to the share of potential energy and 70% proportionally related to the areas of water goods, dams and canals of hydroelectric power plants on the Drava River. This key of division between local communities was later changed in a 50-50 ratio. For 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, a one-off remuneration was granted to municipalities for each year for limited use of space. Until including 2006, the payment of the concession fee obligations and the one-off fee for limited use took place in accordance with the concession regulation. For 2007, the annual Regulation was only adopted on 27 December 2007 and only published on 5 January 2008. There are no official data on the payment of concession obligations for 2007. Due to dissatisfaction in the affected municipalities, some came to court with lawsuits, and I wanted to raise this issue at a regular meeting in March, and the leadership of the National Assembly rejected this issue on the grounds that the issue is of local importance and therefore inappropriate, although it is a matter of respect for the government regulation for the energy use of the entire Drava River flow in Slovenia and the impact of the nineteen municipalities in this area. Since I have not been granted a question by letter to the March meeting, I have addressed the Minister with a written question until today, unfortunately, I have not received an answer. Therefore, on 18 August, in accordance with the Public Information Access Act, I addressed the same question to the competent authority of the Ministry, a negative decision was issued to me on the grounds that it was simplified to say that the Authority did not have the data required and was therefore not obliged to provide them. For this reason, I insisted at the October meeting on the oral question to the Minister, who, instead of explaining the information requested, explained to me the system of accounting and control over the concession tax for the energy use of Drava, but did not answer the questions raised, which I repeat: What is the implementation of the 2007 Act on concessional duty in the work belonging to the municipalities? Is the regulation known for 2008? And: What is the fulfilment of the obligations of the concessionaire to the municipalities? Will a regulation be issued for 2009 and when? However, additional questions are raised: Has a proportional part of the concession fee been paid to the State budget for that year? What will the Government or the Ministry of State Recovery do if it turns out that the concession fee, contrary to the regulation on the energy concession for the use of the Drava River to municipalities or at least some of them, has not been implemented in 2007 and 2008? Finally, I would like to point out that the question raised in nothing has been raised against the current Minister, because it is an act of the past, as some have tried to explain and encourage me. The question is a request for a debate, but it is a fundamental question whether we are a rule of law and respect our rules and, of course, it is also a question of the attitude of bureaucracy, the State towards the Minister and the National Assembly, given the answers it is preparing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space to Mr Karl Erjavac for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Mr Trofenik, who has raised the question of the Member of Parliament on the basis of which there is a broader debate today. I will not explain once again the way and the system of accounting is, because I think that I have very precisely defined the question in the Member State. You want to know what the data are, how concessions are charged by types of concession for the benefit of the State and the municipalities. I have to say that I have this information here for 2007, 2008, and 2009. I must say that concessionaires fulfil their obligations and pay concessions. As regards, for example, in 2007, concessions for the production of electricity in hydroelectric power plants over 10 MW were charged EUR 13 million 454 thousand and I must say that it has also been paid that much. The country received 5 million, 400,000, and 7 million, 900 thousand. If we look at the next larger item, this sum, which is intended to extract thermal water from the water source for the needs of bathing sites and heating the premises for the purpose of tourism activities in 2007, was charged with 15 million 289 thousand. Of this, 15 million 252 000 were paid, which means that 37,000 euros are open from this title. As far as 2008 is concerned. If we look at the sum for use, this is the sum which is intended to produce electricity for hydropower plants above 10 MW, megawatts were collected in 2008, 17 million 908 thousand, of which 10 million were received by municipalities 640 thousand, the state 7 million 267 thousand. It's settled completely, so there's no open account here. If I go to the next larger item, this sum is intended for the removal of thermal water from the water source for bathing and heating of premises for tourism activities, 20 million €229 million was charged in 2008 and 20 million €200,000 were paid and 28 000 €800 was actually opened. As far as 2009, I can say that the sum was charged for the concession for the production of electricity in hydroelectric power plants over 10 MW 14 million 555 thousand, which was also paid by concessionaires. The municipalities received from this title 8 million 646 thousand, the state 5 million 900 thousand. As far as the total amount of thermal water taken from the water source is concerned for the needs of bathing sites and heating of tourist activities, I can say that 16 million EUR 43 000 has been charged, of which 16 million EUR 27 000 has been paid and therefore it is open, so this has not been paid for 16 thousand EUR 361 000. It follows from these data that these concessions are accounted for both for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of the municipality. There are still a few small amounts outstanding as to this, I do not see that this could be a problem given the data that has been transmitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. Honourable Minister with co-worker, distinguished Member of Parliament, honourable Members. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have already pointed out at the previous item on the agenda the embarrassment we have in the debate under the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No relevant material or relevant data was available. The questions raised by our fellow Member, Vila Trofenik, were very specific and relate to the payment of the concession fee for the energy exploitation of the Drava River to the nineteen municipalities situated along the Drava River for 2007, 2008 and 2009. If, in his reply to the meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister had given some of the information that was already in the introduction of the debate today, it would probably have been shorter to deal with these problems or to discuss them. In our view, concession contracts should be respected and, otherwise, ministries or relevant agencies should also take appropriate action. And so it must also be in this particular case that is under discussion today. The financial service of the Environment Agency shall be responsible for monitoring the implementation of payments, which shall alert the non-payers of the breach of the concession contract. If payments are not made, the Ministry shall have the possibility of recovery through the State Defence Office and, in the extreme case, the withdrawal measure for the specific use of water. If this was not respected, I have now heard some information that I did not know, and if we want to respect the rule of law, we should also, on the basis of verification and data, take appropriate action against those who must respect the concession contract and also implement it in those terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Alan Bukovnik has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	Your Honor! Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, at least some or a large majority were pleased to support the proposal by Mr Willi Trofenik, a fellow Member, to discuss the question of the specific use of water and the payment of concessions at the meeting of the National Assembly on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister of Environment. In order to regulate the concessional relationship with regard to the economic use of Drava river water for the production of electricity, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a Regulation on concessions for the use of the Drava river for the production of electricity. The concession was awarded for the production of electricity in a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Drava River, namely Dravagrad, Vuznica, Vuhred, Obžallt, Fala, Maribor Island, Zlatoličje and Formin. The river Drava in Slovenia runs through the following municipalities: 19 Dravograd, Muta, Vuzenica, Radlje ob Drava, Podvelka, Lovrenc na Pohorje, Selnica, Ruše, Miklavž, Maribor, Duplek, Starše, Hajdina, Ptuj, Markovci, Videm, Zavrč, Gorišnica and Ormož. The concession was granted by a decision fixing the concessionaire by number 329/03-2001/11 of 3 April 2003. The government regulation also very precisely states how concession payments are regulated. The revenue of the concession fee shall be the source of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the budget of the municipalities in which the hydropower plants are located. The share of the concession fee belonging to the Republic of Slovenia shall be indicated in the calculation of the revenue from the grant of water rights concessions belonging to the State. However, the share of the concession fee belonging to the municipality shall be indicated by the calculation of the revenue from the concessions awarded to the municipalities. The concession fee shall be divided between the State and the municipalities in a ratio of 40:60 in favour of the municipalities. However, part of the concession fee provided for by the concessional act intended for the municipalities shall be distributed among the municipalities in the following way: 30% of the payment to the proportionally related share of the potential energy of the Drava river water body and 70% of the payment to the proportionally related share of the water well, dams and hydroelectric channels. In 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Regulation supplementing the Regulation on the concession for the use of the Drava River for the production of electricity, in which it added Article 12.b. Notwithstanding the provisions and criteria for determining the development of infrastructure and the environmental burden for the purpose of determining the payment to the municipality of natural goods concessions for 2004 from 1 August onwards, the total payment for the concession shall be allocated to the municipalities by dividing the half of the payment for the concession between the municipalities in proportion to the proportion of the potential water body of the Drava River and the half of the concession payment to the proportional share of the water resources, dams and hydropower channels on the Drava River. The municipalities are also paid an additional one-off compensation for limited use of space due to hydroelectric power plants on the Drava River in the municipality area, exceptionally for 2004. The amount of this payment, compensation for limited use of space, was calculated at 367 million tolars or a million 531 thousand 463.86 euros. The Government has charged the majority owner of the concessionaire Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants with compensation for the limited use of the space. The remuneration for the limited use of hydroelectric power plants on the Drava River shall not be taken into account as the municipality’s own income in calculating the financial compensation for the State budget. This Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia followed the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006, which was complicated by the 2007 Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. 1. 2008 which imposed on the majority owner the payment of this exceptional refund until 25 January 2008 for 2007. I do not know and I do not know for what reasons the then Director of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants has initiated an initiative at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the constitutionality and legality of this Government Act, but I know that all local communities, or at least most of them, have already initiated lawsuits against the majority owner of the concessionaire, for which it becomes clearer from day to day, and especially after rejecting the Constitutional Court of 15 January 2009, that they will receive the dispute and thereby cause the majority owner to receive an additional payment cost in addition to the principal of the remaining legal late interest. In addition, local communities are injured at least at the level of the 2008 annual compensation. They were injured for a single refund in 2009. And I wonder for whom this initiative for the assessment of constitutionality and legality was useful. I am also thinking whether the then Director of Holding may have led to a decision to launch an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Government Act, and the fact that it was at that time that an agreement was being made to approve the loan, which the Drava Power Plants extended to Zvon 1 Holding, amounting to EUR 20 million. Alone and all in the Group of Social Democrats, we will strive to get things back on track and to establish the legal situation that has been established every year since 2003 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by adopting a regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Many of the burdens on the economy as well as electricity in connection with water use are making the system opaque and there are also situations that have led to this question of the Member State and this debate in the National Assembly. I am convinced that a very simple, transparent way should be arranged on a concessional basis that would prevent certain municipalities from feeling damaged by the exploitation of a watercourse passing through them or through their territory, and that there is also legal proceedings, lawsuits and unnecessary energy consumption. I wonder what, in addition to the concession fee for the exploitation of rivers for one or the other purposes, some water reimbursements, such and different natures, must be paid in extremely modified heights. I know very little about the cause of this problem on Drava, because on Drava, the water returns increased by 10 times that year without actually one rational argument. And, of course, the economic operator affected by this obligation simply resisted and initiated appropriate judicial proceedings. So it is not true that this is a departure from some established practice, for a year, but before that everything was fine, but this year it is a drastic increase in this refund. I would like to stress that the simplest part of this debate would be to do the following: everyone who uses the river for certain purposes has been exposed here to the problem of energy exploitation, pays to the state and local communities the concession fee which is distributed between them - and the end and the end. That's the end of the load. In addition to these, there are other burdens. And that, I think, complicated and complicated the system in the future. That's why I think it's like a hand-to-hand solution to this conundrum. It will probably be necessary, because it really is a partial problem, this problem will be solved along the way, it will be resolved, and it will make the system transparent even further. However, I am convinced that it belongs to both the State and the local communities for the use of this river. In fact, local communities, people, live in an environment from which the state has some energy benefits, and it is right to get some compensation in terms of infrastructure superstandard, although there is no superstandard in these municipalities. However, it would be right that this is an additional source and that the State should also be provided with part of the resources under this concession fee for a number of investments and maintenance of watercourses which are, of course, within its domain. Indeed, not only are these charges financed, I do not know, by the regulation of the banks, but also by a number of infrastructures, both transport and other, on the embankments and energy facilities themselves. My appeal and the appeal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the Minister is quite simple, it is that the system of burdening the economy for the exploitation of watercourses will be unified throughout Slovenia to make it comparable, correct and, above all, transparent, and there will probably be a lot of problems in the future less, especially those of today's table.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. On what I have now heard in the introduction, and on the evidentiary facts, I will give up on behalf of the Group of Members, but I would like to be kept out of the debate. I would also like to point out that we have all together, those who have been identified before this, are quite right to support, to see whether or not the rule of law works. Clearly, the rule of law is not working and this will be developments in the next few minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Mr Joško Godec has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another debate in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and we are still at the Drava River, which provides the cheapest energy from hydro power plants. Once again, we are solving the problems arising from the previous mandate, except that this time these are the themes of concessions for the specific use of water, which are calculated on the basis of the specific formula published in the specific regulation and is also an integral part of the concession contract in the article setting out the payment for the concession. These are irregularities arising from the allocation of concession fees, for which there are as many as 19 municipalities to receive these funds under the Regulation. We would like to discuss this: Why are these funds not distributed among the eligible congregations? Who is to blame, and what solution is there to avoid such irregularities? It is a fact that it would be fair, but also in line with the concession regulation, to distribute concessions that are not small, as prescribed in the regulation. The concession regulation itself specifies precisely and strictly how these funds are to be distributed and for what purposes. Therefore, according to our assessment, they cannot simply be lost on some websites or, rather, certain transaction accounts, that they must come to the one they are intended for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	And also Mr Pukšič on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In fact, today it looks like the Minister is on a sad bench and that the rule of law does not only work on the environment and space, but if we looked a little more at it in general, we would see that this rule of law has long not worked. I'm sorry, there's almost no area. But I will not say on behalf of the parliamentary group where these reasons are, but certainly there are fundamental reasons from 1994 - the damage to social property and the amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, because if this worked, it would be very different today. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that today's debate will offer some concrete answers so that there will be no more lawsuits between the municipalities and the country. However, the Minister described how things are technically going, but some unclear things need to be clarified - both in the monitoring of the calculations and in the payment of these concession payments themselves - in the case of specific water use, however, and to be defined. We agree with those who have debated in the sense that the concession is awarded and distributed to the State and the local community, not in a hundred different ways. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, applications for concessions are increasingly decreasing, and this is especially true for electricity production. Concessions, of course, must also be obtained for other matters such as the production of drinks, the needs of bathing sites, health resorts, the production of electricity in a hydroelectric power plant, where this is intended for the market, for ports, for the collection of floods and for the cultivation of aquatic organisms. We are interested in all this allocation, how much money is raised from this title in the state budget? And: How much money does it actually come to the congregations, how is it accounted for, and how is it controlled? However, the ratio should be the country - 60% of the payment for concessions received. The Minister said this time in his reply that these payments are being made, but we know that in practice this is not the case, which is the saddest thing for all congregations. I don't know who it is who shares yours and ours in this case. Therefore, from today's debate in the Slovenian People's Party, to provide concrete and factual data on the payment and information on why there has been no such payments in some municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Villa Trophynik as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'd like to ask: it's obviously a conflict. The Minister shall have the information to be charged and paid. We have information for 2007, 2008 and 2009 that most municipalities have not received these funds. Is it now, as I foretold in my introduction, that there is a suspicion that a subordinate minister is being misled and is writing him inadequate answers or something else? Secondly, because I would like to start by saying that the debate will not go in the wrong direction and that it would be unproductive for those who are trying to divorce this problem with some of the debates on burdens to not try to do so because they will be very embarrassed. Personally, and those who have asked me for this intervention, and those who have supported it, we know clearly that this is nothing but a concession fee. 10% of the so-called sales price, which is divided into 40 countries, 60 municipalities. We mentioned the supplement for four years, which expired in 2007 and is also not realized. So that we don't float in some imaginary space, I'm going to ask you a very specific question. The government of President Janez Janša adopted the 2007 Regulation on 27 December 2007, which was published on 5 January 2008, which is contrary to the legislation, because you cannot prescribe taxes a year ago. Who is responsible for this solution? And this is the basis for Mr Director's dispute, which the former Minister has apparently supported in this decision. But, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation is based on Article 199 of the Water Act. Both the law and the regulation are valid acts, even if someone has caused a dispute, there is no right to hold back payments. However, payments are reserved for 2007, 2008 and 2009 for the majority of municipalities - I cannot say a hundred percent to all, but to the majority of the congregations. However, I also have written information from a representative of one of the municipalities that he received a decision for 2009. Where do we live, dear people? Now I can see why they wouldn't let me ask questions! Now I understand why I didn't get a written answer! I understand why my decision was rejected in a very, very primitive way, but I did not complain because I was ignoring that whole thing. Now we are in a situation of an artificial conflict that I do not want with the current minister, because I have no reason to deal with. Apparently, his subordinates are writing -- sorry, I apologize to the National Assembly -- false information. What do we have left? Investigative committee? The Court of Auditors? Or any authority to investigate this, what is the truth? All the expectations, given the introduction that has begun, except that some have been exposed, that they have assisted in these works - we know this in an informal way, this has now only proved to be - are questionable. How's it going? Does it make sense to discuss matters if we have information that does not? I don't want to put the minister in an impossible situation. And as a result of this impossible situation, it is likely that there will be some political conflicts in which I do not want to participate. But we will insist that this clears up and the real culprits flee into the light. What's the damage? Minister, I'm sorry, but they're writing you the information that everything is settled, except for some negligible amount, and I have a document, the District Court in Ljubljana, Tavčarova 9, regarding mediation in relation to the claims of one of the municipalities. By delaying this mediation, and from 19 February of this year until now it has not been achieved. It's just one of them. But where are the others, of course, is another question. I am not such a good listener of the Rules of Procedure, which is a disgrace to be able to propose a logical decision now, because I think that further discussion on this is pointless. And what was said earlier is also impossible for a state bureaucrat to have such a relationship with the National Assembly and with his own ministers! The Minister comes into the situation that he is now formally responsible or that he should be responsible for the past, where he was not even present, and then he is serviced with such information. Here I expect responsibility to be determined by those who do so and why they do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with what Mr Trophynik has just said, that the debate is disabled and that we need a crumb, because we are discussing now without the relevant documentation that should be prepared at the Ministry, that we should be delivered in time and that we could respond and determine which data they are holding or not. I am sure that I have been doing this for over a decade, and I have sat down with several heads of government and ministers, mostly sitting with finance ministers, with financial ministry staff, when we have addressed this issue, and it has really become now, if we go back to history, extremely opaque and complicated and at certain times even absurd. In one year, my congregation had more obligations to the country than it had any income. We have sometimes come to such absurdities, and that is why some mayors have been under pressure, regulating things, and today we can admit that things are much better arranged than they were decades ago, but they are still untransparent. What needs to be done today, according to my judgment, is no more than to demand that the Ministry work in such a way that it prepares documentation to prepare the material, argues what it claims in the current performances, and argumentably rejects what opponents argue by the Ministry of Information. At this point, the problem is insurmountable. But he is not insurmountable because of us who protest, but because of those who did not put the relevant data on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[Not at all.]] The flower of Zalokar Orazem, not at all. You want a word as a proponent, Mr. Trophynik?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you, Chairman, for your word. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to propose that we stop the debate and postpone it to one of the following meetings. Until then, adequate data should be produced, as the debate is now irrelevant. I think it is, if I am not mistaken, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and 73. If not, please correct me or help me get out of this impossible situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	I'm asking you to come up with an adequate answer, because there are several articles connected to each other. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Given that there is also an initiative to break this point and then to continue, once we have the right material, I must say that there is some misunderstanding here. First of all, I was asked as a basic question of how concessions are accounted for by types of concessions for the benefit of the State and the municipalities. I must say, this part of the concessions, when it comes to water use, runs in a controlled, normal way. Look, these are the I.P.P.E.S. data, and I regret to confirm that. There is another problem, however, because I see that some compensations have also been charged as compensation for the use of building land. And here comes this misunderstanding that belongs under the concession contract. In view of the fact that some of the charges have been filed, I would like to ask that when we continue the adjourned session, it would be good to have at least one case sent to me so that I can see exactly what the problem is. Once again, as regards the calculation of concessions for the use of water for use, I do not know of the necessary hydropower plants for the cultivation of various types of fish, for the purposes of bathing sites. Here things are controlled, there's a special computer program and from these data we got, it runs normally. However, there is another matter, which is the compensation resulting from concession contracts and which are the subject of building rights. Clearly, though, things are not running out here or there are conflicts. As I've heard, there is also a matter in the Constitutional Court and so on. And in order to be able to continue this suspended session in a qualitative manner, I would really suggest that you bring me one concrete example, that we study it and that we will see exactly what the dispute is. Once again, I repeat, as regards the collection of water-related concessions, for the purposes of electricity generation, for example, for small hydropower plants, for those over ten megawatts, then for the collection of thermal water, and not to list all these items - these things are running in accordance with the regulations, in accordance with the rules. However, I see or feel that there is another problem elsewhere, and I am guessing that this is probably the compensation for the use of buildings and that some of the concession contracts in this title also provided for some compensation for the municipality. So I would like to ask that we clarify this because I do not want him to accuse himself, which is that some of the data is not accurate, that the Minister is deceiving himself, because it is very difficult for me to believe that the information I have is not accurate. However, there may be other causes that I do not know the problem as Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenik as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As an explanation. From March to today, I ask about the concession fee in accordance with Article 10 of the Regulation on the concession for the use of the Drava River for the production of electricity, which accounts for 10% of the selling value of electricity and is divided between the State and the municipalities in a 40-60 ratio. In my explanation for the regulation and the problem, I also mentioned an additional one-off refund, which lasted from 2003 to 2007 and for which the Government adopted annual one-year regulations each year and adopted it on 27 December 2007 for 2007. The fundamental problem is that this municipality, respected by Mr Minister, does not receive it. And whoever gives you the information to get it, you can't defend yourself here. In fact, there should be two questions, but I didn't ask you for these one-time replacements because I thought you'd give some information about it in the answer. It's not an unspecified problem, it's a clear problem, it's the concessionaire's will and if you want - I'm not a lawyer - it's a nuance within it. Drava power plants were decided not to comply with the concession regulation and Holding was the liable party; and Holding was the defendant in court. However, it stemmed from the obligation or use of Drava power plants. Now it's embarrassing, because we can't go on with this data because it's not appropriate, I'm going to say very nicely, but what we're all going to do together, and I don't know, because I didn't even think this was going to happen in my dreams.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	Yes, Mr Trophynik, we have all continued the debate together now. I ask you: Do you insist on the previous proposal you made?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I insist because the only logical thing to do is to get to the results, but otherwise it's a pointless debate, because we're going to discuss things that aren't relevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	You have every right to make such a proposal, but I must put this proposal to the vote. I hope there's a quorum. My second proposal is that we continue with the debate until the end, which is the only second proposal. Please, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	Procedural, if I may. I mean, if the proposer has proposed what it is, then you have to put it to the vote. I'd ask if we could do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	I understood that, but at the same time I made my own proposal. But I am not entirely sure if you, Mr Friend, have understood my proposal and my warning. I'll make a motion for a vote. Mr Trofenik proposed at this meeting of the National Assembly, at this point that the debate on this item should be suspended and the item moved to one of the following meetings. We're going to decide who's up for it, who's up for it, who's up for it, who's gonna press the quorum. The vote is under way. I'm detecting a quorum 24. We'll do it again. The vote is under way. There are 26 Members and Members present. I'm adjourning the session at this point, which we'll resume in 10 minutes. That's what it says at 3:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	We continue with the third vote on the procedural proposal by Mr Trofenik. I'm sorry, 15.02 should start the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Dear Mr Han, I cannot give procedurally in the voting process. I can only make a third vote. It's not possible. An explanation of vote could be given before the first vote. In the third vote, explanations of vote can no longer be given. We have to make a third vote, as stipulated in the Rules of Procedure. We are voting for the third time on the procedural proposal by Ambassador William Trophynik that the debate on the response of Minister Karl Erjavac be suspended and transferred to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 19. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is the debate on the reply of Minister Karl Erjavac to the question of the sending of a cross-border outflow in relation to Natura 2000. May I have peace in the hall? At its 10th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the reply that Minister of Environment and Space Karl Viktor Erjavec submitted to the question of Iztok Podkrižnik concerning Natura 2000. I give the floor to Iztok Podkrižnik for an additional explanation of the request for a discussion on the Minister's response. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I think we need to respect the speaker and give him the attention we need. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The professional starting point for the establishment of Natura 2000 networks has been established since 2001. The first was a study of the prevalence of European important species followed by studies for individual taxonomic groups and habitat types. A method has been established to identify potential areas under the Habitats Directive. On 29 April 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established the Natura 2000 area in Slovenia by a regulation on specific protection areas in Natura 2000. Following an Alpine biographical seminar held in May 2005 and a continental biographical seminar held in April 2006, the European Commission then confirmed Slovenian proposals for areas in the continental, biographical region on 13 November 2007. The decision was published by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 January 2008. In January 2008, the Commission confirmed the updated list of Natura 2000 sites in the Alpine region. The Commission officially published its decision on 19 March 2008. This confirmed all potential Natura 2000 sites in Slovenia by the European Commission. There are 286 areas, 260 of which are determined under the Habitats Directive and 26 under the Birds Directive. The area covers 36% of the area in Slovenia. The protected areas of Triglav National Park, regional and landscape parks and reserves and natural monuments account for 25% of the total Natura 2000 area. The Natura 2000 area in Italy covers 19% of the area, in Austria only 16% of the area. How does Natura 2000 work? This is not a system of strict natural reserves that excludes all human activities, and management must be sustainable in an ecological, economic and social sense. Natura 2000 must not limit development at all costs, but must be considered. In Slovenia, in many cases nature is preserved precisely for the sake of achieving cohabitation with people. Here I think it is people who have been caring for nature for centuries or decades in Slovenia, so today it is preserved as it is. In Natura 2000 areas, it is important to encourage the creation of a co-natural and environmentally friendly forestry and agricultural practice. Slovenia has many untapped development potentials in the area of natural wealth. The links between agriculture, tourism and nature conservation, to which we can rightly be proud, must be urgently sought. In this context, Natura 2000 is an important brand to which our domestic and foreign guests will certainly be increasingly attentive. In our work, we need to focus on exchanging good practices, ensuring the flow of information, seeking to establish a partnership with planners, investors, residents and politics alone. As in history, spatial and urban planning has not been and will not be in the domain of just one profession. For good spatial solutions, effective space management and space and environmental management and development, knowledge and cooperation are key. I am sure that each of us has its own vision of a pleasant and successful Slovenia. If we help each other and share it, we can create an even better vision together that leads back instead. I see the future in good, successful and occupied individuals, organisations, institutions and society as a whole. Slovenia needs an advanced economy like all other social pillars for its further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Today we will have an extensive debate on Natura 2000. This is a very important topic, especially because I think that because of our lack of awareness we do not understand the objectives of Nature 2000. Slovenia, when joining the European Union, also had to adopt the Nature 2000 standard, which means preserving those habitats of special purpose. This Natura 2000 is based on two directives, the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. I must say that I was pleased when I watched the last Eurobarometer survey, what is the attitude of Slovenians to nature conservation and nature conservation in general, and there are great results. We are all aware of nature conservation, 94% of Slovenes believe that we must ensure this, 98% of Slovenes believe that special care must be taken to protect nature. So at the principle level, we all strongly support nature protection, nature conservation, biodiversity conservation. We are all in favour of the fact that these special natural areas also need to be protected, to establish special regimes. For a long time, I have not been the Minister for Environment and Space, I have been listening to grappling, in particular this moaning comes from various investors and mayors and those who declare themselves to be for development, that they are for new jobs, that Natura 2000 does not allow this. I must say that this is a balance between development and protecting and preserving our nature. When I became more aware of the effects of Nature 2000, I must say that they do not claim that Natura 2000 does not allow development. I think it makes it possible, maybe it makes such a development that will be more promising in the future than the development that we have known so far, when we have only looked at the growth of gross domestic product, but we have not looked at the side effects and what we are leaving behind because of our development, because of jobs. We also have a number of examples in Slovenia: Zasavje, Upper Mežiška Valley, so that you do not continue to list specific cases. Natura 2000 allows both, and development and protection of the environment. This is also demonstrated by certain sensitive infrastructure facilities. Last but not least, we know that in Natura there is even a highway, that in Natura we also have other more demanding projects. It is true, however, that Natura requires certain additional procedures, which relate in particular to a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, in terms of maintaining the natural state in those areas where we have Natura 2000. I think the Slovenians could be pleased that the numbers show that we have quite a beautiful part of Slovenia secured with Natura 2000, which means that we have a quality environment, a quality nature and that it is our duty to preserve such a nature to future generations, our grandchildren and those who will receive this nature from us. I believe that the debate will be a lively one, interesting one, claiming that certain Natura 2000 areas need to be changed. I must say that is not possible, except under very special conditions. It is true, however, that if Slovenia wanted to join the European Union, it also had to adopt these environmental standards. I said that at the principal level of Slovenia we support nature conservation. This percentage is 98%. But I want to know what this percentage is going to be in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In addressing the Natura 2000 issue, we would like to remind ourselves that, in order to join the EU as soon as possible, we have also adopted a Nature Conservation Act in 2003 setting out a procedure for defining specific protection areas or the European ecological network. The great favour of nature conservation in Slovenia has been fostered by the inclusion of 24% of the state territory in the Natura 2000 network under the Birds Directive. According to the Habitat Directive in 2003, it was not clear how many areas will be in Natura 2000 and the desire was for both Directives to reach 38% or even 43% of the state territory. In doing so, it should be stressed that the European Commission has committed us to transfer only 5% of our sovereignty to it. The question at this point is whether the Ministry of the Environment at that time failed the National Assembly with the proposed areas and that the designation of Natura 2000 sites is determined only by a government regulation. In fact, by Article 33 of the Nature Conservation Act, we have enacted the power of the Government to decide for ourselves how much of the sovereignty in the Slovenian territory it will transfer to the Commission of the European Union. This fact should be re-examined and, however, verified whether it is not the competence of the National Assembly and the subject matter of a special law. We warned the Social Democrats about the Nature Conservation Act at the time, but the interest in entering the European Union prevailed. However, we have been able to supplement the law with a supplement, which reads: "For the impact of specific protection areas and potential specific conservation areas on the self-government local communities where the areas are located, the Government shall adopt a plan to determine the consequences on the social and economic conditions and establish appropriate development measures." It was also agreed that the plan should be adopted before specific Natura 2000 protection areas are established. Here the question is whether these plans were adopted and whether they were in line with the local community where these areas are located. This is a key problem and also a key fact to be answered in Slovenia if we are discussing Natura 2000 and the restrictions that are prescribed within Nature 2000. After that, in the interim period when the Government had the power to determine the Natura 2000 area by a regulation, something more had happened; that is, the Government had adopted even a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on Special Protection Areas, in which it stated: "The areas proposed for Natura area by the European Commission shall be determined by the Minister responsible for the conservation of nature." Thus, the Government is no longer competent by a regulation to extend the area of Nature, but in Slovenia it is appointed by the Minister for the Environment himself. Your Honor, this is a matter of granting jurisdiction over sovereignty in Slovenian territory. According to the 2007 government, this is only for the Minister of the Environment to decide. In this context, we wish to recall that Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires that, in decision-making procedures in international organisations to which Slovenia transfers the exercise of the work of sovereign rights, the Government informs the National Assembly of the proposals for such acts and decisions and of its activities. The National Assembly may adopt views on this and the Government shall take them into account in its work. The relationship between the National Assembly and the Government is governed in more detail by a law adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. That's how much our Constitution talks about it. So, this moment in Slovenia instead of two thirds of the Members present, only the Minister decides on limited sovereignty of decision-making in 38 or even 43% of the territory of Slovenia. This relationship will have to be cleaned up and really seriously discussed how we are conducting the Nature 2000 declaration process in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Natura 2000 is the European network of specific protection areas designated by the Member States of the European Union. Its main objective is to preserve biodiversity for future generations. In protected areas, we want to preserve animal and plant species and habitats, which are rare or already at risk in Europe. The European Union has introduced the Natura 2000 network as an important part of the implementation of the Habitat Directive and the Birds Directive. Slovenia, at the time of its accession to the European Union, established a list of natural areas which comply with the criteria of both Directives. The Directives support sustainable development that can meet the needs of current generations, while at the same time not harming the needs of future generations. In Natura 2000 protected areas, the Directives do not exclude human activity, but we must ensure that these activities do not endanger nature but support its preservation whenever possible. All is well and well, but it is necessary to ask where man and his need for development and existence are in these directives. Is the role of human development and human settlement treated with the same criteria as those applied to other habitats? The question is certainly highly relevant, since the Natura 2000 site placement procedures did not take into account the views of people and local communities. In particular, local communities have been played in procedures, which is also inconsistent with the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, which requires local communities to take care of spatial planning. The government claims that it was in a hurry to enter the European Union. Data, in addition to the urgency, not the developmental view and non-cooperation with local communities, also show a typical Slovenian quality - generosity, since almost 36% of the territory and 286 sites relevant for the conservation of species in the EU Directives are already included in Slovenia. Slovenia is expected to contribute to biodiversity conservation through the Natura 2000 network. On the other hand, we are faced with real problems in practice in unsuccessful attempts to develop the economy, tourism and agricultural activities, as well as the problems of housing transport and other infrastructure in the Natura 2000 regions. In addition, we run into another Slovenian weakness, which is the non-cooperation of entities by the state. The main objective of Nature 2000 is to preserve and increase biodiversity in the European Union area for future generations by enabling responsible sustainable development. Part of this objective is also to promote traditional coexistence between people and nature. Nature 2000 is a living area that is also important to people, and it is also very important to look for development opportunities. The operational programme highlights some new opportunities for local or regional development, in particular in the areas of agriculture, tourism, recreation and related activities. However, the realization of development opportunities and opportunities in Natura 2000 areas is doomed to failure, despite the fact that the directives support them. Any new initiative shall be weighed by the protective function and protection of habitats, with the exception of the human being, against development and economic justification. The system of operation of our operators in the Natura 2000 programme is built almost in an absolute ban on anything new, which would increase the economic power of the population in the area. Infrastructural and other major facilities are also sentenced to failure to obtain permits if, under all the criteria of the European Union, they are organic and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, we are also engaged in writing sectoral legislation in other areas related to the protection of nature, where all other influential conditions are more important than the living people there, who are as much a province as we have and want to further protect it with laws, are preserved without being prescribed by anyone. I would therefore like to remind everyone who participates in the drafting of directives and in the writing of legislation, particularly in the environmental and spatial fields, to listen sometimes to people who live and work there, and to other entities who wish to place development components in our Slovenian space. Let us not adopt new laws because of the likeness of Europe and the desire to be the first among the European countries to implement the directive. The first test in this regard will already be the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act, where we would like to be the first in the European Union. But I'm afraid the marriage is about to have a similar fate as we did at Natura 2000. The law will be written as adopted, and in practice it will create new ones instead of solving problems, so I propose a strong reflection on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. In the Parliamentary Group, we really supported the request made by Mr Podkrižnik, a fellow Member, to discuss the response of the Minister responsible for the environment and space in relation to the Natura 2000 issue. As I have already said in the case of a question by my colleague Ribič, one of the previous points is that these decisions are not the criteria of the coalition-opposition and our decision cannot be interpreted or understood that it is directed against the current minister. Moreover, it is not a negative attitude towards Nature 2000 but rather a realization that there is still a need to speak in Parliament about this important issue and the practical application of this document in everyday practice, which is too often a means of blocking development in individual areas, not to say that all too often the abuse of Nature 2000 is for other purposes, including political. Because of such a relationship in practice, the creation of reservations in Slovenia is, of course, in a negative sense of the word. The fundamental problem is, in fact or in practice, that those responsible for this area feel too often as centres of power, not responsible for finding good solutions, taking into account both the public interest in environmental protection and the public interest in ensuring conditions for further development or for the life and work of people. Today's debate is expected to change this negative practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Also in the DeSUS Group, we often discussed Natura. Among other things, it is because there are quite a few of us who deal with this problem so much daily because we are key people involved in the development of our environment. The Natura 2000 syntagma has been very often spoken in recent years, less often understood, here and there also being misused. That's what upsets us the most. Natura 2000 is not a problem in itself, and it would probably be difficult to find someone who would object to the need to preserve what is worth keeping, so everyone would probably be for it. But at the same time, if we asked people if they were for development, they would probably be all for it. I don't think they'd find anything like that that would be against development. And so, what and how to do to make use of what is worth our development and to synthesize it so that those who have been mentioned today, who come from local environments, can feel attracted to codecision, which is otherwise due under the Constitution and laws, and not be deceived. The impact of human action in the environment is certainly indisputable and no one can deny it, the impact of human intervention on the environment - and man is only part of the environment and nothing else, except that he is also a part of the environment that can cultivate the environment. So this influence of ours isn't necessarily negative. Let me mention that in Slovenia we have a series of natural values, natural monuments that have only been created by our intervention in the environment. At first we reached out, cultivated and years, and for decades, and sometimes even for centuries it transformed it into a natural value and a natural monument. It is bad to interfere in a way that is unbalanced with nature, with its own inherent legality, the problem is that if we follow only economic interest and forget about external costs and similar things, the problem would arise if the profit motive were to be stronger than the motive to preserve our own environment with us. And when I always point out that we're important people too. I stress this because we are also important where people are evicting from us, where it is a population where there are negative demographic trends due to too much, too bureaucratic implementation of nature's content. Three decades have passed since the Birds Directive was adopted and we do not need to be taught just and repeatedly to protect such an environment. Almost two decades from the second Natura 2000 Directive, through the mechanisms it implements, it will be possible to implement. This is highlighted, especially because of the very often or too often ambition to place just one, two or three professions on some pedestal. But our social life is much more complex, so it is not only what one profession knows, only its interests, only its objectives, only its plans. And since it has been mentioned, not only today, but also in our debates, that very often too often they have gone too far into local decision-making or even gone too far, it is clear in this respect that it is extreme centralism, that it is a matter of disregarding local interests and that such a way of implementing the content of Nature must be stopped. In the DeSUS Group, too, we support all the ambitions to preserve the environment, but we are against a narrow, excessive obstacle to development, which very often refers to expertise, but in the back it concerns narrowness or interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	Good afternoon, Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Is nature’s protection an opportunity or an obstacle to the development and life of the inhabitants? We have raised this issue in the Slovenian People's Party and have dealt with it many times when we meet in Slovenia with a number of demands and questions of our mayors who decide to develop municipalities or Natura 2000 and entrepreneurs and farmers living in such areas. At first glance, we could say that the question of respect for Nature 2000 and the possibility of development in such areas is impossible to harmonise and solve, that it is almost impossible to achieve "volk sati and goat whole". The truth is probably in the middle of something, the will is to have, and the two need to be reconciled. Regardless of the commitments and directives adopted at the level of the European Union, we must all be aware of two very important facts. First, that the quality of life of all depends on the environment and the preservation of nature and natural wealth and, secondly, that our debt to grandchildren is to preserve nature in Slovenia, wider in Europe and the world. In many countries nature is much less varied, but often quite destroyed. Slovenia has many extraordinary and wonderful natural pearls, from the Soča basin on the one hand, to the park on the other side of our beautiful country. Beautiful nature represents a pearl that is our grandchild's legacy. But we also know that only by admiring and observing all this beauty cannot be lived. The choice of the way in which Natura 2000 is protected is left to the discretion of each Member State. In European countries, biodiversity is most often cared for by contractual protection or guardianship. These contracts are in the framework of the agri-environment programme on habitat types with agricultural use. It is important to mention the very important acquisition of Nature 2000 for all inhabitants of Slovenia, namely to establish a criterion for the protection of different types of surface water used for water supply to the population, which was a novelty both in Slovenia and in the wider European area. Healthy drinking water is vital to all life. In such areas there are opportunities for sustainable development and environmental and nature-friendly tourism. In response to Mr Podkrižnik's question, the Minister stated, inter alia, that there are also possible interventions in the Natura 2000 areas, but they must not affect all those for which the area is protected with Natura 2000. In addition, activities can be developed in some areas of Nature 2000 if they have no particular impact on this. In our opinion, it is in this bush that the rabbit is concerned. How to implement the necessary measures on interference in order to protect rare habitats, how to allow for necessary emergency actions on property and in the territory in such an area, and who in this case pays the costs of additional procedures and interventions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the essence of the problem is misunderstanding and ignorance of possibilities. We agree with our fellow Member's statement that the debate in Slovenia in 2004 on the introduction of Natura 2000 sites with owners and residents in these areas has not been sufficiently thorough and that everything has been done too quickly and with a view to meeting this requirement for Slovenia's integration into the European Union. That is why we are convinced that ongoing substantive and in-depth communication with owners and residents in such areas must take place now and in the future. It is therefore possible and necessary to provide opportunities for life and development for people living in protected areas, given that Natura 2000 is a legal necessity as a natural necessity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, visitors, nice greetings! The Minister said today that the extensive debate on Natura 2000 is an important topic. But we can see for ourselves that in 2000 it was not an important topic. We rushed with this Nature and, as has already been said, today, under the Birds Directive, we wanted this territory to be referred to as Natura 2000 in Slovenia and under the Habitats Directive as nearly 27%, so that we would reach almost 40% of the total territory of Slovenia, which would fall under such a restriction. Why am I saying this? Simply because we can speak today, and no one has touched on this, the irreparable damage that this reckless move has actually caused, the rapid move of Slovenia at that time was only due to its liking for Europe, because we wanted to close this chapter as soon as possible and be the first, although Europe requires members to be somewhere up to 5%, given the common territory. Today we have problems in the municipalities, we have a stalemate in development and national projects connected at the state level, such as power plants and the construction of the necessary railway infrastructure. Nature 2000 forces the country to commit violations. Why did I bring this map with me? Let me show you how much paper we've already written about Nature in the Slovenian National Party alone. First of all, we warn the country that it is in violation of what it has written. Let me just remind you of some nonsense that the government has allowed to protect this area. In the Primorska area, we bought land with the state company, within Nature, this is Elektro Primorska, on which we want to build wind power plants, despite the Birds Directive. In the Maribor area, where the university is to take place, we force in violation of spatial acts, plans and also in contradiction with Natura 2000 objects that do not belong there. We are faced with the construction of hydropower plants and it is also questionable to update the railway infrastructure system, for which we spend the most money in this budget. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Who today will bear this responsibility for the mistakes we have made in the past? We then, you can go look at the magnetograms, note that this is a quick action, that Natura 2000 requires an appropriate professional basis and a thorough assessment and constructive discussion in the National Assembly, before we decide what we will define as Natura 2000, and this has not happened. We wrote all the average things that hurt the congregations today. I come from the Municipality of Séžan. The municipality of Sežana or the whole Kras is almost Natura 2000, the mother of Kras. We know that the native Crassus is mostly territorial on the side of Slovenia and it is almost impossible to build anything, also, for the country of important buildings we cannot build there because it is only Natura 2000. Today we talk about why there was no debate in 2001, 2004. This is probably not debated, nor would it be productive, to seek out the culprit, and it might even be desirable. Why? Because both the municipalities and the country are causing billions of damage in euros calculated for the reasons I have just stated. There will be sanctions if we intervene in Natura 2000 with projects that do not belong there, because we have defined this area as a protected area ourselves. We in the parliamentary group to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana also raised the suspicions of criminal service because in fact the adopted directives or laws were in breach. Of course, we have also warned the competent ministers of the previous period, as well as the current governments, that they are interfering with the Rubicon of the unlawful and that they are essentially in excess of their powers. We can talk here about the Minister of Environment and Space as well as the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Economy, and any other ministry could be mentioned. But there will also be neither personal responsibility nor the responsibility of the employees who at that time had this map before their eyes, which defined the Natura 2000 area. Who will be responsible for the fact that the regulation is not properly defined by a territory which is absolutely too large for the development objectives and the desire of Slovenia, is, of course, a question to which the Minister himself would like an answer. The Minister is not here today. Who will be to blame for all these projects, which will also be supported by Europe, but never realized because we cannot and should not build them? Who will be responsible for the inconsistent regional development of the municipalities because they cannot develop self-sufficiency with investments because they are limited to Natura 2000? Who will be responsible in the future for the sanctions we will have to pay for the fine to Europe because we will be forced to violate what we have set ourselves as the border of the protected area. These are the questions we would like to answer in the Slovenian National Party. If the Government is so capable, we would also like to calculate the final damage from this title. I'm sure it'll be a very big one. If we do not get an answer at today's meeting, which is impossible, we will ask the Minister and the Government in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much, President for your word. Welcome to the Director of the Directorate and to colleagues from the Ministry of Space and Environment. Natura 2000 raises many interesting questions, and it is interesting how in life we can look at something from two perspectives, both positive and negative. Many times in life, there is a principle that what we have is worth nothing, but what is next door is good and better. In the long term, Slovenia’s prospects and development certainly hold that we all prefer to live in a good, beautiful and healthy environment. If we asked for the opinion of a country that had achieved a large, insidious industrial and other development in the past, we would all say that we would prefer to live in Slovenia. And vice versa. We're in the middle of something. After decisions have been made in 2001 and 2004, which seem to be final in much of the story, he can be smart. At that time, we must have said that Natura is a great opportunity to be a great challenge. Half of these questions from those times and today will certainly be answered if the debate is a challenge, if it is an opportunity, whether it is true at all and why Slovenia and Slovenia, as well as all governments, have not been able to make the most of it. One of these solutions is for sure that, with great assistance from the local communities, countries and ministers must prepare well projects for the Natura 2000 area and seek appropriate funding for them. That they knew this in Europe and could have shown cases from abroad. For example, in ten years, the data was old by 2005, and 90,000 jobs were created in their protected natural cultural heritage. It would be interesting to make statistics for Slovenia, how many jobs create protected areas in Slovenia and what their added value is. He probably claims that there is a lack of integration between different government departments and ministries. The Natura 2000 region prepares the Ministry of Environment and Space and at the same time should provide for financial resources, and in particular prepare projects together with the Ministry for both agriculture, the economy, the Directorate for Tourism and probably others. Probably too little is done for sustainable development where protected areas are, and Natura 2000 can also be the starting point. We have some positive projects carried out mainly in the context of Life Plus, which finance environmental projects in the field of nature. Surely, there is also a second bounding edge of the medal in Natura. I must say that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are not so sure that this area and this determination are so solid, so cemented and that the decision where Natura will now be in Slovenia is only in the hands of Europe. If this is our common country, then surely for areas where we have valid real reasons and development, and progress in a certain moderate attitude towards the environment, this is certainly the case, we would at least try to find mechanisms for what we can change here. If we are each in our firm position and we point with our eyes and with our finger back, then there will be no progress in development. At the parliamentary club, it is estimated that this area, in the slogans, also needs a thorough and fundamental consideration of the "negative" edge of Nature 2000. On the other hand, we certainly want Slovenia to look as preserved as possible over a decade, but not as industrially burdened and polluted as possible. We are aware that development cannot and must not be stopped. At this point, we need to work and think about what can be done, but not what cannot be done because of some, unfortunately, too quickly made decisions in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues. Look, this topic is very good and very interesting. Natura 2000, I very much welcome the basic purpose and I think it is necessary to preserve certain areas, certain animal, plant species, whose occurrence in some areas in Slovenia is more pronounced than elsewhere. This makes Slovenia better, better, more recognizable, and that's all right. However, it is necessary to have the right hand and also to do more good than damage. I am therefore convinced that the type of sites in Natura 2000 and the type of areas now proposed in Natura 2000 are mainly the result of a relatively partial, partial treatment. I will serve with one example that illustrates this partiality and you will see that there are even more cases of this kind in Slovenia. I will focus on the proposal of the Department of Nature Protection to include the area of the lower Sava in the Natura 2000 area. This is called the area where lower-Savish power plants are now being built. So far this area has not been in Natura 2000 and there has been a proposal from the Department of Nature Protection, and this proposal is now under consideration at the Ministry of Environment and Space. However, this proposal came about because the hydropower company at the bottom of the Sava, as part of all preparations for the construction of the Brežica hydropower plant, Krška and other hydropower plants, carried out a study and research on fish life in Sava and found certain emerging species in Savi, I don't know, one view and similar things. And that was enough for the Department of Nature Protection to initiate a procedure, if so, and this must now be protected. Everything would be fine if the Institute of Nature Protection also had studies on how many of these same types of phenomena are elsewhere in Slovenia, say Mirna, how much of this is in Soča, Bohinj Lake, Sotli, Krka, Drava or elsewhere in Slovenia. And if it were to find that there are so many of these species and that this ecosystem is so interesting compared to all the other ecosystems in the country, then on this basis I would propose to the insurance and to the specific area. And I would understand that. But that didn't happen. The Institute has only this study and no one else who would respond accordingly. And that triggered this initiative. In my opinion, this is professionally incorrect, but it is also extremely unfair to the ongoing economic national project in this part of Slovenia. The power plants are already being built there and if this area were to be protected, this would mean at least the output below the hydroelectric power plant, this is the Mokrice hydropower plant, because there is the most developed area, and they would be intervened into the Sava stream, its deepening, disabled. As a result, this energy project would be disabled. It would not have given the national electricity industry about as much effect as it did or as it would have given it to the power plant. There would also be a lot of changes in the planning of the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, since it would then be the last power plant and should have a larger communication pool and would again cause problems in the same government services, especially in the agricultural sector and elsewhere, as of course they would interfere with the agricultural land.!!Oh, my God! Not to mention the consequences of this proposal for all those settlements that expect some water protection treatment in terms of flood protection, in settlements near the border with Croatia and so on. Among other things, this proposal also interferes with the planned projects of some inter-urban links between Krški and Brežica and similar. Someone is proposing something without at least trying to assess the consequences of this proposal for a wider life in space. Life consists of a number of factors. One of these factors is our responsible attitude toward nature, to life in this nature and so on. Our other, also responsible, must be the attitude towards people's lives, their development, infrastructure development and so on. It's got to be in some warehouse, in some kind of commotion. Surely, those who propose something for insurance must also consider the consequences of this on this broader circle of influences that his proposal entails. When faced with this proposal, the Posavina municipalities demanded more detailed information from the applicant, the Department of Nature Protection. What the impact of this proposal on a number of projects will be, and what will be the impact of this area at all. There was no answer. That's not the answer either. So I can't imagine that the institution could not define the area at all, but I mean exactly to the plot. Someone who owns the place needs to know if he's in or out of the area. If he doesn't know where he is, he doesn't even know how he's gonna get his real estate into the future and what kind of regime he's going to be subject to. For this reason, I believe, with respect to the inclusion of sites in Natura 2000, a number of things should be considered. Firstly, the whole process of whether it is properly carried out, in accordance with the requirements of the European Union, is said to be the first to make a study examination of the whole area and then to secure specific areas. Secondly, to analyse and evaluate such proposals and also to answer all the questions related to the accompanying impacts such a declaration would have on the projects already started and on the projects that the region or local communities are building. I wanted to show you, on one occasion, that under some nobleness of Nature 2000, which it certainly is, and I welcome in this basic purpose, there is a whole bunch of life problems that are not proud of Nature and this noble idea of hers. So let us need these side effects that it has. And perhaps even at the beginning the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. In particular, the complete design of the hydroelectric power plant, the process of adopting the State Spatial Plan for the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is practically standing because it is not known whether the area will be included in Natura 2000 or not. One important national project in renewables of electricity has therefore been halted, which, among other things, brings a whole set of benefits in the water protection area, the anti-floating area and when we can expect the final solution to this annoying issue related to Natura 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning, I would say no to any or I would suggest that you give me a word later because I feel bad and I can't right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Hello, Your Honor. I have already spoken about the question of Nature on behalf of the Group of Members, so allow me to speak briefly in my personal name. In dealing with issues around Nature 2000, we face similar issues, as we do in many cases, when we raise two major questions in some way: how, on the one hand, to create the development of the country, as a result, it cuts into nature with various interventions and, on the other hand, to protect the natural, cultural, archaeological and similar heritage with which Slovenia is very rich. Unfortunately, in these cases, we often find ourselves in two conflicting positions, where on the one hand the desire for this development may be too great, but on the other hand we also feel unorganized or sometimes too complicated, that is the bureaucratic structure of certain guardians of these heritage. Above all, we miss the fact that the insurance of this different heritage would also be a systemic source with which this protection could also be carried out. Similar examples, but perhaps not entirely similar, are archaeology, where it is essential that something is protected and there is no systematic way from there to regulate matters and practically all the burdens of protecting this heritage are placed on those who want to visit this space, regardless of whether it is national value, but not just by chance that there is an archaeology or similar in some area. I think that in the field of Nature, too, a lot of moves have been made quickly, without some thorough reflection and even in some time pressure when Slovenia enters the European Union. I am still well aware of the time when this regulation was adopted and when we received mail in the local community a week up to 10 days before the deadline for issuing certain opinions. In some ways, the Ministry of Environment wanted to protect itself, or take responsibility for accepting such arrangements, to take over local communities. In the congregation in which I worked at that time, we simply replied that we really have no basis in these 10 days, so that we can be thoroughly and that we also do not have enough knowledge to be able to examine carefully that even the applicants did not know the consequences of such an intervention at the time, so we did not give a positive opinion on such a measure. But then we protected and put in some very sharp regime a third of the Slovenian area. Today, colleague Vizjak also explained what is happening today when we ask the real municipalities about the environment, which is to be re-protected in the bottom of the Sava River, what will be the obligations, how can coordination between the great interests that we have in an area be mentioned today? In addition to protecting certain fish species, there is the energy effect and the efficiency of the Sava River, on the other hand, it is possible to use the karstland plain also with mosquitoes, irrigation, also for one of the basic duties we have to protect agricultural land, so that we can also train them to produce food. According to the information we have received, there has actually been some very banal approach, that in fact, the one who wanted to go into the area of cutting was the most comprehensive research and that this research is suddenly the basis for the protection of this area, instead of being made in the way of a powerful directive that talks about Nature, that it is necessary to explore the whole country, to find out where the best habitats are, the best area for a particular individual and those best areas to protect. That is why I think it would be right, not only in this area, but also in many other areas, that those who have this responsible task of protecting the environment, protecting nature, habitats, so that such protections and such protections are systematically undertaken, that really then there are no approaches when we feel that such protection and protection of nature occurs primarily or only where at some point they want to go into space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Already in the adoption of the Nature Conservation Act in 2003, we had a very concrete proposal for the Social Democrats to plan the development of nature conservation where these protected areas are also managed. That is why we proposed a supplement to this law to be the seat of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature in Kočev. At that time, two votes were lost in the National Assembly. Today it is the seat of the Institute for Nature Conservation or Nature Protection in Ljubljana. It is easier to talk about nature protection if you have a seat in Ljubljana, and you are not burdened by the measures felt by those living in protected areas. Let me just remind you that the Directive itself on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild animal and plant species in its Article 2(3) makes it very clear that the measures adopted under this Directive take account of economic, social and cultural needs and regional and local characteristics. What has been taken into account in these procedures carried out for the proclamation of the Natura 2000 area? The most controversial point in this story is, which I have already pointed out on behalf of the Group of Members, that the Government is doing so by means of a regulation. The Natura Area is defined by a government regulation. The next step of this government was to give this authority and this opportunity only to the Minister of the Environment. How can the Minister of the Environment define the Natura 2000 area, while we are very clear on the fact that the specific protection areas regulation in Article 1 speaks of areas in the interest of the EU? So the interest of the European Union is the Minister himself in Slovenia, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If I am wrong, of course I would like to make a very precise explanation of this, but I would like to ask the Government very correctly how, in the process of placing in the area of Škofljica, it could at the same time extend the area of Nature 2000 to the very part where it was placed in the space. How can this be explained to the National Assembly, where is the consideration of the economic, economic, social and similar categories required by the Directive? Once again, if the Department of Nature Protection had its seat in Kočev, surely all those who proposed the extension of the Natura 2000 area in this part would think differently. We would have an interest to get to Kočev, have an interest to travel normally from Kočev to Ljubljana, join in the fifth, tenth European corridor. Of course you don't. However, you have affected a large part of Slovenia, which does not yet have this project involved in operational development programmes. By 2013, there are still some resources for development axes in the Republic of Slovenia. The government is changing operational development programmes for these development axes right now because these routes are not placed in space. Who will take responsibility for the damage that will arise because these projects will not be placed in space and because, last but not least, these resources for the development axes will no longer be available? Will this be the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature? Will it be Minister Podobnik who then adopted and proposed a regulation to extend the Natura 2000 area to this part of Barja? These are questions that we would really like an answer to. I am particularly interested in the procedure for the extension of the Natura 2000 area. Why should the National Assembly not decide whether a part of the sovereignty over Slovenian territory can really be subordinated only to the interests and decisions of the Minister? Does this not, however, need to be accepted in the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of the Members present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. If my provost doesn't mind me, for a moment I almost thought he'd crossed into the opposition line. In fact, similar questions need to be addressed to the Minister when the question of putting infrastructure into space is also raised in relation to Natura 2000. If we look back now, it is clear from the data that by 2004 we had around 13% of the protected areas there, and then in 2004 we jumped to slightly less than 40%. Whatever we're thinking about the reasons why it happened, I think we need to look at how. And if I summarise this debate, my fellow Member. If this power has now gone so badly to the Minister, only to the Minister, and so has reached into the legal order, then I may suggest that the Coalition prepare a law that will remedy this situation. Considering you're having second thoughts. Of course, I feel the same way. When we talk about Nature 2000 and what the minister said, when it comes to nature conservation, when it comes to protecting certain endangered species, it's hard to say, no, that's not necessary. However, this preservation of this diversity must not endanger certain vital interests. And certainly a solution should be found for infrastructure projects of national importance. I have also looked at the Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and it shows that a Member State could achieve it in justified cases where, at the end of the day, human health is also threatened to establish certain more flexible mechanisms. Finally, this is also highlighted in this Directive. There, because more than 5% of the national territory is protected, and in the case of Slovenia this is so that, in fact, these criteria can be applied more flexibly in agreement with the Commission. I think we have space here, and I call on the Government to actually look for all of these options, especially where we need to ensure these criteria in order for the roads to be placed in space. See if I can touch this rim of Skofljica myself. Any other solution, if not otherwise, any other solution that would have avoided this Natura 2000 entails an investment of enormous value. I think that Natura 2000 can also protect itself in a way that puts the road in space. This is not because every local road will now take place across the Natura 2000 area, but because of infrastructure projects of national importance. I think it's necessary to find these solutions here, but not to get the first argument we get, to say this is the Natura 2000 area, there's nothing we can do here. And then we can come in front of people and say that, just then, instead of 30 million euros, this road will cost 100 million euros. I think that if we, which part of the surface we want to protect, are the ones that we have provided to Brussels, I think we have reasonable reasons that, if we have protected more than 5%, we can follow certain criteria and implement them more flexibly. Finally, we also have this basis in the directive. And I suggest to all officials at the Ministry that they read the directive and then bravely to Brussels. I do not believe that the Commission would not be prepared to listen for reasonable reasons. The placement of national transport infrastructure is certainly a justified priority of this country, where the Natura 2000 criteria can also be explained a little more flexibly in accordance with this Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	Your Honor! Comrade Verlich, I said at the board meeting at 8:00 this morning that there was no position or opposition on this subject, because the problems are the same. It is clear that the mayors here are the ones who are the disruptive factor, because we are the ones who feel the most problems as far as Nature is concerned. If they were doing a survey on Tromostsov in Ljubljana, yes, who would say that it is against Natura. They come to do a survey on Banjšice, Trnovsko-Banjsko Planoto, Vipavska Valley, Nova Gorica, and the percentage will be slightly different. It's not as nice as it looks for the poll. There's a lot of trouble. I am confident that some legislation will have to change matters in this sense, as already spoke to colleague Weber, about deciding who will decide on this. Whether it will be a parliament, whether it will be a minister, or just a government, of course, without consulting the local community and so on, which has already happened. I also do not think it is true that certain matters already agreed upon with the agreement could not be changed. It's just death that's really final. But life goes on, things change in the field. New requirements are emerging. And with intelligence and problem solving, all of this can be accepted. Look, sometimes we have a bigger concern for Nature, for some habitats that are not even as threatened as it sounds, I'm going to talk about frogs, in Primorsk we can't make an indus zone because it's a requirement to keep the macadam road in the indus zone because they're going to cross the frogs into this road. But we'll carry them across, no problem. But the concern for some things is greater than that of a man. I will be rude and I will say that the dog shelter in Maribor is inappropriately better than the prisons in Nova Gorica. I've seen these prisons, and it's a disaster. I wouldn't put a man there. But we're taking care of the animal. That's right, but we need to know how rich we are. What about the homeless and stuff? There must be some sobriety in all these matters. We have a number of problems. Now I speak as mayor of Nova Gorica, the city has no place to expand, in the west there is a border, in the east there is the slope of Kekca, which is slippery and so on, as soon as we go a little to the Vipava Valley is Natura, there is a protected land, there are frogs, there is a nesting bird and so on. You should say, "Okay. We cannot go forward, we will be as we are, and we will be pleased with it." But I can't tell citizens that because they're going to carry me, and now it's not about doing any propaganda or anything. That is why I think it is necessary to have sobriety in this Nature, we are all for the protection of the environment, too, but when the wild pigs literally plow all the pastures and meadows on the Trnovsko-Banja plano, when the fellow has problems with bears and so on. This can be arranged by keeping this animal alive, by having some hunting tourism that can be very profitable and more. I think that more than hunters know how to take care of these things, no one in Ljubljana, no bureaucrats in the Ministry of any kind. That is why I think there is a lot of debate about this, and perhaps a change in legislation and an adjustment to modern times. There's something else I'd like to say. Slovenia is a two-million-dollar country. The United States has not joined in signing matters that are very, very important for environmental protection and so on, other huge countries, and the whole world is teaching us how to survive here in the home environment. I propose that we move this debate forward and see what we can come up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the word. You don't want to? The word has magic. Stefan Tessel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	I very much welcome you, Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Natura 2000, a magic word that is supposed to bring blessings, but it can also bring a curse. It is a matter of protecting animal or plant habitats in a limited area. Nature and environment must be protected. We must also protect fertile agricultural land. Far away everything looks nice and right, certain areas are protected by this Nature. The situation seems concrete and nothing can be changed. In many places it was imposed, or at least without the consent of the local population. Many have become this major obstacle to development in areas where demographic threats and difficult conditions for survival are at stake. Many in the countryside still insist, but the successors are leaving or will be difficult to sustain. I am convinced that it is possible for the individual cases of Nature 2000 or those areas to be re-examined and to try to make at least the essential thing for the inhabitants in these areas to live decently in association with nature, with natural beauty, and that they will also be interested in staying in the home environment, which must provide them with a decent survival. In specific cases, there is a need to improve road infrastructure, bridges, flood protection, water supply and so on and not just a desire for land for construction. And that, but it's rarer. As an example, I refer to the basins of the Voglajna River, which is flooding, which needs flood protection already for the objects that are standing, much less for what is planned. There has been much or almost a building permit, and this protection is increasing, and this Natura 2000 is holding us back from the flood. I am confident that together we will find solutions that will not be harmful to nature and will be a relief to the affected people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Alan Bukovnik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Natura 2000, as we have heard many times today, is the European Area of Special Protection Areas declared, in EU Member States, with the primary objective of preserving biodiversity for future generations. Special protection areas are therefore intended to preserve animal and plant species and habitats which are rare or at European level at risk of human activity. This most often means that there is a need to maintain a favourable situation through various measures in these areas. The European Union has introduced this network as one of the mechanisms for implementing the so-called Birds Directive. Slovenia has accepted cooperation in Natura 2000 as an association obligation. But I heard about Natura 2000 for the first time in 2002, when I actively joined local politics. At that time, in the local community and also in the regional councils, we talked a lot about this strategic document, which is supposed to somehow regulate the regulation of space and coexistence in the ecologically important areas of the Republic of Slovenia. As I said, in local communities and regional councils, we discussed this a lot and gave initiatives and questions. And with the enthusiasm that once and for all in Slovenia we define ecologically important areas, we also express scepticism; whether at the time of the adoption of this strategic document all comments and initiatives will be made, some of which were for, some against the so large coverage of the Republic of Slovenia by this act. When this strategic document was adopted, we were able to find in the local communities and regional councils that the comments we submitted at the time were either incorrectly taken into account or rejected by professional argument. I can certainly assess that, despite our personal environmental awareness and willingness to comply with the rules set out before us by Natura 2000, we cannot assess that the adoption of this act has been in line with all actors and operators of space regulation and in certain environments. Instead of bringing additional development potential, it is becoming an ever-increasing bar in the development of certain areas in the Republic of Slovenia. In local communities, we are working to take into account Natura 2000, which on the one hand brings new challenges to us, but on the other hand, I also assess that, despite the great willingness of local communities in institutions that give consent, there is not even the slightest willingness to harmonise development potentials in the Natura 2000 area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan. It's running fast today, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	Yeah. This seems to have something to do with the years, the president, a good day and thank you for your word. I must say, however, that I will think a little differently about this Natura 2000 issue, as have the debates so far. I can agree that it is somewhat problematic how Natura was accepted as a government regulation, that it was not discussed and decided by the National Assembly, because it is a matter of determining the very large areas of our country, which have certain different conditions of management, space management and also interference with the space that remains. It should also be said that the relationship between Natura protected areas in individual municipalities is extremely different: from 0 Nature all the way to 100%, in Prekmurje areas, as well as in areas such as Gorenjska, Styria, Dolenjska and so on. It would probably be wise to consider now that, after more than five years since Natura was adopted in the form of a government regulation, it would be good to consider doing something together with the European Commission. Here I am not thinking about avoiding the supervision of the Commission, because we know that they have sent us their experts, on whose initiative they would not guess now, but they are checking in what way and what we have designated as the Nature area. The fact is, when we look at the map of Nature in Slovenia, there are very unusual areas with individuals, I will say, clusters in an area which, by the logic of things, should be uniformly defined as the area of Nature, but may not. Depends on what the criteria we set ourselves. That's the first thing. And secondly, if these criteria are such that the area is, say, the Ljubljana Barja area of Nature, then it means that this area cannot be where the conditions are exactly the same, through the entire area of the Ljubljana Barja, which suddenly appears one peninsula, in which Nature 2000 is not. This is about as much as it would have been to say that in our family someone is exempt from the special terms of family money or whatever because he has chosen in one way or another that this island or peninsula was suddenly created. However, if we think that the criteria have been overly loose, that this has led to the over-definition of the Natura areas, let us do things. I know very well that this country will cost, but at the same time, if the result is such that certain areas of Nature are justified, with very clear rules, abolished, then this will be worth it, because those areas will have better or easier conditions for development. You know, it's true that our Slovenia, as one such story says, when God was wasting the world's beauty, made him a hole over Slovenia and then all the beauty came right to us. But when God did this, he probably didn't give away 36% of the whole territory with special beauties. Nor will it be held that in Slovenia 36% of the whole territory is so densely populated with birds and plants and other species of animals that deserve special protection, because they are only there and nowhere else and that is why Slovenia is given so much attention. When you read some data, percentages of the protected territory in other countries of the European Union, in all seven, are, of course, a great truth, unfortunately, here in favour of those who specifically object to the fact that the average in the European Union is below 20%, that in fact the territories in Natura 2000 and the habitats are about 700,000 square kilometres or 500,000, because in any case, in these 500,000 square kilometres, both Directives are largely covered. However, in many countries and in most countries these percentages are between 15% and 20%, but not like us, 36%. According to this logic, Austria, which is also geographically very similar to Slovenia, should also, in fact, be a large part of Austria, a high percentage of Nature 2000 in Austria. I think that if we are thinking clearly, if we know what Natura 2000 means, then we also need to know that the state cannot leave the individual congregation when it decides to intervene in a space to regulate its space in such a way that it also intervenes in the Natura 2000 area, that it is left to itself when it seeks alternative habitats. For example, a beech goat or anything like that is a protected animal species that lives in this area and if, for example, a congregation such as Kuzma, such as the Upper Petrovci or any other municipality, is 100% covered with Natura 2000 - what can they do there? In their own territory, alternative areas or alternative locations for the movement of these organisms cannot be found. Are they going to force a neighboring congregation to accept theirs - now I'm joking - but, say, those kinds of animals that are at risk if they're going to do anything in their area? It is therefore necessary to make one sober, calm revision of the entire Nature 2000 which will bring truly well-founded areas. And we will say, here - not that nothing can be done, but when the congregation wants to visit this area or when the state wants to visit the area, it will have to take care of the alternative habitat. Only then, of course, it can't be 36% of the territory because then, let's say, if we want to move all the habitats, I don't know where we're going. Are we going to Italy, Hungary, Croatia or what? This is where you have to think seriously. However, I must say that with impatience, by accusing individual state institutions that are bound by Natura 2000, which the European Union has confirmed by the directive also in Slovenia, of course, we cannot go anywhere. I think we really need to sit down and do what we're going to do. But we need to know this won't take two months. Those who can imagine this - Since 2001 documents, professional bases for determining Natura 2000 sites have been prepared, and then the material has been supplemented and distributed throughout the areas. [[...]] But let's make a deal, and here we have to say something: when it comes to environmental intervention being such that it's not possible - I'm going to say the case of the lower Sava, where it's actually endangered species, where it's about endangered habitats. If they are actually carried out there to the extent of the hydropower plant as planned, then it will be necessary to seriously consider whether the advantage acquired for Slovenia in the form of the construction of these hydropower plants is so great that it can replace the permanent destruction of a habitat that we can no longer establish anywhere. But we need to think about it seriously. Here I think, without impatience, we really need to put on the scales of each other. You know, the benefits that an additional 4% of electricity brings to this country, while we have other opportunities to obtain renewable energy in other ways, I think it's worth thinking about what's necessary, what's necessary and what's really worthwhile. If the Court of Auditors were to proceed here, the Court of Auditors is likely to have a negative opinion rather than a positive one in relation to the destruction of certain habitats. I would therefore say that today's debate may be really useful, but I would like to propose again, as I have said on behalf of the parliamentary group at home, a water fund: let's agree to sit together on the committee responsible and let the government be told to suggest that we take these, these and these steps. In today's session, unfortunately, we can't reach any conclusions. And this is actually the wrong way for me to approach the solution of some of the problems that are common to all of us, which have nothing to do with what kind of political provenance is anyone here in this National Assembly. Because it is a common problem for us this moment and those who will be behind us in 20, 30 and 100 years. Here's another question. Climate change also brings so much change in the environment that it is possible to say that habitats after Natura 2000 are today those habitats that we will be able to protect in 20 years. I am increasingly afraid that in 20 years such habitats in Slovenia will be no more. And that we will no longer be able to see many animal and plant species in all of Slovenia, as we now see them, because they will have to move north, it is said that Austria and Germany may then receive our high percentages of Nature 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of today's repeatedly attacked weaknesses, and I did it when we identified it as an inadequate attitude towards local communities. I'd dare say he was even ignorant, not absolutely ignorant, but very often, and I'll try to prove it. Let us recall that it was written on 29 April 2004, when the Regulation was adopted. Remember that it was written on 7 April when we were invited to the Ministry of Environment and Space in the local communities. So, for a few days, even a few weeks has really been in the middle of time, not very much if we remember that there are still some processes to be done in the middle of the Rules of Procedure and so on. And we were invited to make some comments. Even though we were extremely busy in time, we mainly made decisions and wrote these comments in the congregations. In my municipality, for example, comments on the extension of Nature to an area where the dominant population is, to an industrial area, to areas intended for housing, and to an area that has been designed for the development of tourism as well as ski routes. The only thing that was taken into account was the last and the area where economic development, tourism development, was envisaged, was indeed exempted at the time. In 2005, we re-addressed our comments in writing to the Ministry, today it's due in 2009, and we haven't received any answers. Somebody say it's not ignorant! It's not just the previous suit, but the present one might have answered something - she didn't answer! It was written in 2008 when the area was expanding. At that time, we were no longer called upon to make any comments, what concerns they had at the time, what they had done behind our backs. And interestingly, for example, my congregations are: exactly as the ski tracks run, they draw the expansion. And there's no instrument to be denied to me, even if it were, I suppose the objections would not have been taken into account. This is important to emphasise because all of this, all of these enlargements mean new integrated environmental impact assessments, new mappings, new habitat censuses, new audits, a lot of costs and time delays, some hope that they will delay the decision so far that investors will pass the will and that there will be no more economic development. And if you're stubborn enough, and the Pohorians are like that - they say - then you manage to get all the consent, including with the ministries, even the spatial plan confirms you, all the professional institutions do the studies that justify our interventions, but it's really a little more expensive and a little longer. And that must be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that we are discussing the subject that is leading us to some consensus that in certain areas belonging to Natura 2000, there is a need for a sober reflection that, while the positive and noble intention does not constitute a developmental backlog of this country, there is a need to find some proportionality, cohabitation between the purely environmental and developmental aspects of this country. We all probably agree that this decree and the decree itself, which was adopted in 2004 under Minister Kopač, has been made a little headless. That, then, Minister Kopač wanted to gather only some civilian movements, which he did not think broadly enough, but thought perhaps a little unilaterally and narrowly, which is not wrong and sin, for on the other hand there should be a competent policy. She wasn't competent enough in that case. It seems to me that that policy - now that I listened to it about the South Stream yesterday - did not take into account all aspects that the Treaty is not only useful for Slovenia, although I support the South Stream and energy supply. But I've seen some private interests and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	Dear colleague Jerovšek. South Stream can be another time, we're really talking about Natura 2000 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	South Stream will also go across Slovenia, and if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	Yeah, that's what the contract says, but we're not discussing it right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Mr President, I know that Mr. Kicker is from your party and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	It is not a matter of question that Mr. Digger is from our party, my, any, or the government, it is a matter of sticking to the subject and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	I'm just sticking to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	It's just that you're the first one to have been alerted to this subject today. Really. I think that the debate is disciplined, okay, within the darkness, I have not started other things and I think it would be good to stick to this tradition in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	I'm sticking to where the problem we're dealing with today comes from.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	And, of course, Mr President, you have disturbed my mind. I must say, all of this needs to be warned. I just said, Mr President, that we are moving towards some coherent objective to see that something needs to be corrected. Look, I'm saying that our ancestors, farmers, have been the best environmentalists for centuries. If we are watching today how they rationally spent space and agricultural land, how they saved on what was for their personal use, and how they spent all their futures and other generations, and how this Slovenian man once avoided construction in the areas of centuries-old, millennium-old floods. How, for example, did the architecturally shaky roof rotate that these destructive winds did as little damage as possible. Then, after World War II, there was a period when everything that was old and based on tradition was not valid and all the rules and criteria had to be broken. And we've had the last years of winding up a new school, building houses at the time of the previous system in the flood area and so on. And our ancestors really had a feeling about it, even though we didn't have an environmental minister at the time, not Krebs's, not Minister of Agriculture of Pogačnik and no one. But people had a feeling and a common sense. I think that it is necessary to return to sense and common sense and use the profession, but not a certain part of the profession that is just rooting for some partial, narrow interests. In fact, even though we cannot take decisions, I think that this debate will lead to a clear direction for the ministers of this government, that they must take into their hands that farm and work rationally and in the interest of the future development of Slovenia and the preservation of a healthy, natural environment, a natural heritage, as our ancestors have kept for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you, again, for your word. I am joining all those who have discussed that the topic is absolutely important and that it already has a "long beard". My experience in the adoption of Nature from the past is similar to that of others who deal with local self-government, and in fact in this part it is an original sin, which has also created this issue and which has also led to this debate. In fact, the local communities were played in the first stage, if you say mildly. My experience in this area was that, as previously said, we took part in certain procedures when a key document was drawn up to be forwarded to Brussels, and those areas that we coordinated in some way, were again in the document. And I was lucky that the Secretary of State was so, I would say, kind that he called me and said, they gave you back what we agreed was going out. I cleaned up this last day, or at this point we wouldn't be talking about some project that we're doing, that's the connection of the ski resort on Kanin. This area would be in Natura. Despite the fact that the document has been there since the old Yugoslavia, since 1972, which has all defined this area as a tourist infrastructure. To someone at the Ministry, this seemed to be too much, and he also drew across this area of Naturo. Thank God we've solved this, and I think that other local communities that participated in that first phase have similar experiences. This doesn't fly to the current minister, absolutely not. Previously, it has also been said many times that this is a great opportunity and so on. However, when we appear in the field and explain it to people, they do not understand it because it is not so far in tangible form. Nature can serve certain institutions and universities and research institutes, but there have not been concrete tangible projects yet. And also when it comes to how this can be used to develop agriculture and similar matters. I'll tell you about my case. When we adopted the UNO, it was a condition of the Ministry of Agriculture that the whole of the Soča up to Triglav besieve in the first area of agricultural land. Everything's fine and fine. But when you get to the measures, someone says, because you have agricultural land yourself. Draw up European funds in the field of agriculture. It is not aware, however, that this is physically impossible, even if the first area of agricultural land is in the map, so that in some way we are 'painting' what is possible and what is not possible. When someone says there's some tourism going on in this area - but that's not it. This is forbidden in Nature, and this is forbidden in the natural park. Thus, the directive is very free to explain what is possible and what is not possible. I find it hard to believe that this Natura brings so much good, because otherwise, some indicators in these areas would also show that they are growing, from moving to gross social product and all those indicators that are growing, I would say, in urbanised work, around Ljubljana and cities. In these areas, which we have declared to be Nature, these indicators are getting worse and worse. That's something that doesn't add up. And investment in this area, except in the event of natural disasters, is not quite enough. It is difficult to convince investors to go to this area because they expect any restrictions in the case of law or nature or some other nature-protection law that I have nothing against. That is why, in conclusion, I have also pointed out that we are again in the near future in the face of a similar fact when we are talking about changes and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. And I'm only going to allow myself to quote two things, so my other colleagues will also be a little more careful when they read this material. It says: the main objective of the proposed law is to transpose the requirements of the directive and then list them, two, three. Main solutions: in a legal systemic sense, the bill does not change the basic concept and solution of the existing law. I only read pieces, just for intermezzo. It was similar with Nature, so it's kind of compatible, and you'll read the rest yourself. Estimates of the financial implications of the law on the State budget and other public funds. The draft law does not constitute an additional financial burden for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and does not go beyond its existing financial use plans and then divide. Now I'm coming to the key to what I'm going to read. Display of regulations in other legal systems and adaptation and so on. Presentation of arrangements in other Member States. This is good to hear: "The information provided by the proposer is that of the Ministry and the Government, the Member States of the European Union have not yet legally transposed those directives into their legal order. Thank you for your attention. I hope this is a good thought for you, because the same problem will arise as with Nature. And we accept this by means of a reduced procedure, without anyone saying anything about it in a broader debate. And then we'll make another loop like that at Natura.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr. Erjavec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you. I must say, I am very pleased with the debate. She was very constructive. We are all aware of the importance of Nature 2000. We see that there are certain problems, we need to find the right balance over the development and protection of the environment, but I am sure that Natura 2000 helps to preserve our nature, to preserve an unspoiled nature for the next generation, which is of paramount importance. It is true that there are some problems when it comes to placing more demanding projects in these areas, but experience shows that, with the good will of all, mayors, municipal administrations, bureaucrats from the Ministry of Environment and Space and other participants, various institutions can also achieve the ambitions that individuals have in these areas within Nature 2000. I agree that there will have to be another such debate, not just within Parliament, and that we will understand nature as some lasting value to be treated with care. I think that today this debate has been very useful in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer, Mr Iztok Podkrižnik? Please, Mr. Crossbow.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I am pleased that this debate has taken place in the National Assembly and I thank all of you for supporting this. The debate was clear, it is said that this area is problematic and that, as the Minister has already said, much more will have to be said. The new development paradigm is enshrined in a development vision that defines Slovenia as a knowledge-based society with an international competitive economy and sustainable and regionally balanced development. On the general objectives and issues of the vision, the economic development strategy of Slovenia is intended to address the definition of human development. It is called creating an environment that provides every individual with creative life. This is supposed to be the lead and long-term objective of the development of society, but issues are already being raised here. It is said that how many new jobs have been added and how many have been added in Natura 2000 to this day. Employment or social development - ensures employment or unemployment? Culture or development - does it take into account the fundamental values and culture of a particular society or not? Participation - does development allow the participation of all members of society and not just the selected elites? Future - is development sustainable or not? It is our duty to support the innovative activity of creating higher added value in order to make it one of the basic not only entrepreneurial but also general, sustainable mental cultures of the population of Slovenia. Which, in operational terms, means direct further development of the support environment for the economy, the activity or increase in the number of economic projects and their implementation, while at the same time the number of people involved in innovation activities does not exclude the importance of ecology in ensuring the objectives of sustainable development, which is a condition for a more competitive Slovenia. Here I think that in the very field of Nature 2000 there is actually a lack of this development component. In several cases in Slovenia we see, when already, I will say, implemented various social activities, real investments have been ongoing for decades. And today this area has a big problem. Here we face various constraints. If someone is working with us to say that for 20, 30 years with some activity in this area, which is now mentioned in Natura 2000, we know what belongs to this area. Whether it is a ski resort now, whether it is a recreational centre, annual tourism or whatever, it is said that this transport infrastructure must function there and as far as other accommodation facilities are concerned and so on. If we have 36% of the land under Natura 2000, it's a major obstacle. I think that here, when they say that this has been imposed on us by Europe, I think that should not be the case. If that's the case, then - I don't know. So this is where we should go gradually into this matter. So, not immediately with that percentage, but to go, what I know, with 5%, 10%, 15%, gradually going into it. I look at it the same way as someone to say production because I come from an economy. So someone doesn't have to produce millions of products today because he hasn't won them yet. It is said that all the analyses must be fully worked out here, including the people living in these areas, and that they should be made aware of what they will actually be able to do in this area in the future. It seems to me that the state is making major obstacles to future investments here. I think it's some kind of national damage, which is no good for anyone. In Slovenia we are witnessing the rapid growth of new road links. From this point of view, Natura, I say it's good. It must be all within limits when this population can actually do something in this area. I think we could do a lot more for ecology if we gave more time and spent all the transport infrastructure. As a result of the geographical position, road transit has increased mainly by entering the EU in our country, which is the least appropriate for the environment. Transport on the entire Republic road network daily produces emissions above 40 tonnes of carbon dioxide, over 20 tonnes of carbon dioxide, over 70 tonnes of nitrogen oxides, about 100 kilograms of lead and more than 4 tonnes of carbon dioxide. According to EU data, road transport by total emissions of nitrogen oxides is about 45%, with a 65% share in Slovenia. The second traffic contributes an additional 3%. I think we could do a lot here on the local level. It is said that they would reduce CO2 emissions and lead emissions from the transport itself; provide separate safe routes for road and interregional riders - so to speak - to modernise the rail network; to reroute the long-distance freight transit to the railway; to modernise or build urban and local public transport means, such as trams. The national programme could also place more emphasis on water, focusing on a real policy aimed at greater public transport, promoting regional, local passenger transport and also just putting transport infrastructure in place. That's what was said today. It is said that there is not much to do in Natura 2000 but there are several plans for this transport infrastructure, so to speak, motorway traffic and what to do on these routes and if not, will be a huge cost. Now, Mr Minister said that in these few years from Nature 2000 we have somehow managed to get around €6 million. I think if we don't put this right in the space, this transport infrastructure, we're going to pay a huge, huge amount. I don't think we can get that money out of Nature for another hundred years. So it's politics that has scissors and linen. This must happen here, and in fact, Slovenia - I will say so at home from mosquitoes and everything else will be difficult to survive. And people in this area can't live off of it, and I think there's really going to be a lot more to be done here. I don't blame the minister because he hasn't been in this area for a long time, but in fact, what we have today is what we have. So, with this percentage we have in Natura, I don't think it's good. And if we are looking at competition in tourism in neighbouring Italy, Austria, this is normal, it is Europe. If you're saying they said we must have this land under Natura 2000. They have a built-in infrastructure, they have everything and they can actually laugh at us today because from this title they get a lot of money in the state treasury every year. We've had these tourism funds for a long time, we won't have them for long if we stay here. Now, tourism, but how much. So here are the documents, the basic documents that guide the work, is the plan, management and is the basis for the annual work programmes. In fact, we should have some documents drawn up more seriously and also from these documents in order to see what can actually be managed in these areas. This document would give concrete answers to questions about protection and development guidelines, such as: tourism - yes, but how many jobs do they have, but where and what kind of jobs; road - yes, but how and where; water supply-yes, but when, agriculture - yes, but what kind. With us, the forests cover 90% of Nature's land. 70% of the land, pretended to be forests, is here in private ownership. If we look at what these people are going to do. I think it's wise for these people to actually use this raw material that they have in this area and make some final product out of it and a higher added value. I think this is where these people face major obstacles because they are actually waiting for spatial plans, municipal plans and so on, and in fact it also takes a lot of analysis and expertise and it takes several years to get a building permit, which is not development-oriented. So these plans are a direct basis for the preparation of regional development programmes and with their spatial component they enter spatial plans. In addition, many abroad have produced studies of evaluation of Nature 2000, parks and nature as economic categories. We also have some of these studies in Slovenia. However, the topic is an opportunity for economists to really focus on these areas more comprehensively. I think we haven't done enough economically here, so we really should do a good calculation and see what this Natura 2000 can do for us. Now, upgrading this Nature 2000 is also the expansion of these regional parks, national and regional parks. Here I see, I come from the Upper Savinja Valley myself and was informed a while ago that this regional park in the Kamnik-Savinja Alps is also being prepared. People here, who don't know what's going to happen to them, because they're already scared of Nature 2000, now there's even more fear about what happens when this document is adopted. So people here don't know enough what they can actually do out of this. I think that these institutions and all other institutions should raise awareness and inform people in these areas what they can actually do out of this. As far as the promotion of Nature 2000 is concerned, I think there have been quite a few resources spent on this matter. Now the Minister has said that a lot of people are aware of what Natura 2000 is. I have also seen these surveys and in fact 25% of people in Slovenia even know what Natura 2000 is. This is not a good information, and I think that at this promotion we should actually do much more and perhaps more resources for this matter. I can see here that it is a matter of being able to do a lot of things in small congregations, so to speak, that small congregations have problems with spatial plans, as well as with this scattered construction, because it makes this Natura 2009 impossible for them. I have a suggestion. I've been thinking about it myself 10, 20 years ago, but I wasn't here in Parliament when somehow you started setting up these industrial-occupation zones in Slovenia. And I think we made a big mistake here. If we were to combine these industrial and craft zones in the periphery, now every small municipality with 2,000 inhabitants has its own craft zone. That's not good. Now, if we put this together, but in one region we would have one strong industrial zone, as well as trade centres, employment institutions and what else would come out of it, this would really contribute, so it would be a result of this better logistics, so it would say, significantly less transport would be, public transport would be functioning here in a way that this thing is not somehow going in the right direction. And this would cause less emissions to the environment itself. What matters most is that it would be a better balance of agricultural land. Now there's a pretty big thing to put in space and what not, and I think that if we put things together, because I think that every little congregation can't literally have everything. And even if we planned these things better, we'd organize it well. As far as the space regulators are concerned, they seem to be under-coordinated. So, there are modern technologies here that allow for a significantly better connection. It is not a priority, here I think that priorities and also plans should be set what we really want to do with this Nature 2000 and what we can do about it. I think it would be good for the members of the Committee on the Environment to initiate these measures there as well and to start talking about it, because I think we could make more of this. I am sure that we can manage better, and we can do so with our collective strength. I will be pleased, however, if the main achievements and results of the ministries responsible for this are the most important Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture to be the goal and outcome of this achievement, where the second year and solution of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. He does. I'm opening time for an application. Three reported, as agreed, each reported five minutes. Is he okay? Mr. Paula Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I must say that I did not vote in favour of today's debate on the response of Minister Erjavac, although I think that the debate on Natura 2000 would be supported by materials, pre-preparation on the working body and data, welcome and also at the plenary session of the National Assembly, although I appreciate every word spoken here today. However, I would like to draw attention to some things and my debate will be beyond the course of the majority debate, I must emphasise. The first thing is coverage with Natura 2000. Natura 2000 and percentage coverage. This is, in my view, the least important or least relevant problem in this story. Where problems arise, they arise on the thresholds of coverage, where conflicts occur between this use, that is, human or human use, and between certain nature-protection requirements. Even if we had significantly less coverage, we could have the same problems in certain protected areas and at border points where the regimes come into conflict and can be intertwined. A typical example may be the Ljubljana Barrier or something like that. If you have 40% of the mountain world, 60% to 70% of the forests, then such a level of coverage of Nature is nothing special, in fact it may be useful. That is why we already have a largely readable logging in the forests in Natura, because we already want to use sonar regulation and water management and so on. We are already trying to introduce organic agriculture, and ecological agriculture is increasingly being introduced into mountain and mountain areas, not only because we are so sure about it, we are not so great environmentalists, but because local butter, cheese and so on reaches a much higher price and similar things. Both Natura 2000 and the concept and implementation should not be an obstacle, but it is, I agree with that. But it can't just be an excuse not to be able to do anything. I'm sure you can! And I'm sure, and I can say that, in my opinion, maybe some quick solutions that he wants to come up with and doesn't come up with are covered by the nature 2000 problem. I'm not saying it's always like this, I'm not saying it's obvious to anyone here, but if we had a debate on the committee based on facts and data, we would soon see that the problem of expanding cities is not in Natura 2000, but, say, in agricultural lands and so on. I'm not gonna talk about it. Look from the air when you're going to Slovenia, look at the settlement - scattered, scattered settlement, and you'll know where our problems are. I can't keep talking here either. As far as protected and unprotected. I think this, and I'll say Bovec or Bohinj - why people come to Bovško - because they are attracted to the attractiveness of nature and the related activities. Destroy these attractions of nature and they will no longer come to Bovška, as they will to Bohinj. And that's exactly what this is about. I am not saying that this is advocated by my colleague Krivic, of course not, but I am saying that the lack of some value is felt only when it is gone, not when it is. And you have to be aware of that. Now I'd say something else. Unfortunately, I have already experienced this year so that at my birthday my friends can give me a book entitled World Without Us - A World Without Us, I am just so old. And in this book, the world without us describes the situation that would happen again if the human race disappeared quickly. You'd be very different. And I believe she wouldn't be the kind of person that the naturalists would like to see. The entire species of biodiversity would disappear - I won't speak any further. This means that we also love this nature because it is cultivated because it is the product of an intervention of the human hand. And these two must be reunited in some rational debate in Natura 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have also felt that this debate is probably useful, but it sounded like the Natura 2000 trial and also the work of the Government, which is trying to implement what we accepted when we joined the European Commission. Natura 2000 is not something that has arisen from itself, but is the upgrading of certain directives that are based on constant supervision, on the monitoring of the actual contraction of natural habitats in Europe. We have several directives, the Birds Directives, we have the Habitats Directives from different periods, and we have the final Natura 2000 that we as a new member of the European Union have adopted just before we were introduced, just before we entered the European Union. I'm coming from the coast and I can tell you that the problem is not the nature 2000 restrictions, but the other way around. First of all, we are subjected to strong pressure from wild buildings, attempts to ensure that some wetlands, which are extremely important and protected within Natura 2000, are still subject to the appetites of builders and so on. That's what's going on in Strunjan right now. The fact is that endemic plant species are disappearing in Europe, more than 64% of endemic plants have disappeared, 38% of indigenous birds have disappeared and so on. There is this pressure. We are all aware that the restrictions resulting from responsible treatment of the environment are sometimes disruptive, are non-diggage for many. I understand the mayors when they want to have their hands free in their planning and they come across more than once this limit. But it has been repeatedly exposed, both from colleague Gantar and colleague Pecanova before, that it is necessary to find points where the developmental orientation of our society will be met with the needs arising from these constraints. I am convinced that development is not necessarily in conflict with the preservation of natural habitats, as well as with biodiversity and biodiversity. Earlier, it was said, for example, why not make more rational plans for the rotation zone. I agree with this thinking, sometimes we actually act so well that perhaps because of the frameworks offered by Natura 2000, we will be forced to act more economically and even more rationally with the development plans. So, we are not looking for conflict, we are not looking for inconsistencies, but let us try to work in terms of environmental protection on the one hand, fully aware that Slovenia is probably one of the most exemplary countries in this light. Look at the forest surfaces! We are comparable to Finland, and that is acknowledged by all of us. Tomorrow, when they are again, natural urchins are already important for CO2, this is extremely interesting and good information for our and also for future generations. Therefore, this debate should sound particularly an incentive to think about how to harmonise development and how to direct it towards respect for and respect for the particulars Slovenia has, and therefore is one of the most interesting countries in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! I am very much in agreement with my spokeswoman, especially with my colleague Gantar, but it is in these particulars that the problem is. It is not true that we have a very large surface in this Nature and that the marginal problems are those that cause this matter to us. That is why we should reach, and this will be my proposal to conclude this debate, that the Ministry or Government agree in some way that at least we can replace some land that is within Nature with some other land, but perhaps we can resolve some marginal, marginal disputes, because I agree with you, most are not problematic. And it is also true that we all support both directives in general, but those minor problems have caused a lot of disagreement and also this disagreement in the first adoption, when it has somehow covered these marginal problems, have now caused this to be an opposition, not a general one. I absolutely agree with you here. And on the basis of these minor conflicts, what is not usually elsewhere, also certain civil initiatives over the ministries, over the profession and causing further difficulties in the application of certain areas. This is how my proposal would go in this direction: if this 36% can no longer be reduced, and I doubt if it can be added, it is likely that some things can also be reduced. But let's leave it at that, but that would be a suggestion for the ministry to sort of investigate it. The second solution I propose is that the Ministry is trying to beat or exploit itself from the Commission so that, in a certain case, we can still remain in the global situation at those percentages that the directive or the regulation we have adopted foresees, but in this case, some of the land can be excluded, some added. This would make sense, a practical proposal, because it is often very small areas that cause problems. This would be a practical conclusion to today's debate and would be useful for such a replacement to be made available to the Commission. In my opinion, given that we have protected the largest areas in the European Union, this could be done. But when I read some of the environmental protection laws very badly earlier, I forgot to read the last indent, and I would thus conclude my debate, which reads, "The bill will have no consequences." This is also good when we adopt the following legislation to read well. That's what it says. This is the same as in Natura; it will have no consequences, and then we spend a few years working on how to implement it. We run the environmental protection law the same way. Again, we would like to be the first in the European Union to implement certain directives. I will monitor this debate very closely myself on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-18-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
