ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter, Janja Klasinc, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Ljubo Germič, Aloise Posedel, Bogdan Barovic, Branko Grims until 6 p.m., Matjaž Zanoškar and Franc Jurša. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Second defense of the proposal for a law on funeral activity and management of burial sites, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Ribič. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rezman, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! In terms of the report, let me say that a proposal for a law which was rejected by the municipalities was prepared in 2007 and that is why the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has set up a special working group which has prepared a new proposal for a law and which has been tabled as a proposal by our colleague Janez Ribič. The essence of this proposal is to assess that the current situation is inadequate, to use even the terminology that speaks of chaoticity, and that this area should be regulated so that it runs partly as an economic public service and partly as a market activity. The Committee on the Economy, at the conclusion of the College, was the mother labourer for the consideration of this proposal. Representatives of the Government, representatives of the Ministry of the Economy, the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Chamber of Commerce and Industry attended the meeting. The draft law, the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, which had comments on the 15 articles and the criminal provisions, served as material. As material, the government’s position against this law was also presented when it conceptually changes solutions that it itself prepares. They also pointed out that this proposal is already in the legislative work plan for this year and that the proposal is just before the adoption of the law in the Government. The Committee on Environment and Space supports the Government's position. The municipality of Piran and the municipality of Šmarješke Toplice had comments in the sense that the amendment of the legislation was necessary, but they were asking about the appropriateness of the solutions regarding the dispersion of ash into the sea, the takeover of barbecues and the mandatory retirement period. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also proposed amendments to Article 15 and criminal provisions, and it itself advocates a substantially different new concept for regulating this area. The Chamber of Commerce also put its position on the table only, and the Members did not have it in time. The substance of the views of the Chamber of Commerce was quite the opposite of the position of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, namely that this service should be carried out as an economic public service and not on the market. The discussion repeated the arguments of the extractive materials. Mr Lahovnik explained the Government's position and after the discussion it was found that our colleague, Rybič, was actually satisfied with the debate, also satisfied with the decisions, as he himself estimated that he wanted to encourage the Government's work in this area to prepare the law more quickly and that his contribution, the desired contribution, was taken into account. The discussers noted that the government proposal in preparation was better and therefore decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Such a decision shall be proposed by the Committee on the Economy for discussion by the National Assembly or in a decision by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposaler of the law, Janez Ribič, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u4	Hello! Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! The Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery was adopted in 1984 and has not yet undergone significant changes. I therefore believe that there are many shortcomings and inconsistencies in particular areas. In 2007, the Ministry of the Economy forwarded the municipalities for consideration of the proposed Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities. The proposal for a law for municipalities was not acceptable because it regulated funeral activities as an economic market activity and the setting up of burial sites as a public service. The latest draft law, which the Ministry of the Economy has forwarded to the municipalities for consideration this year, is also prepared in this direction to be a market activity for funeral activities and to be regulated by the economic public service. For this reason, the Community of municipalities appointed a special working group, which, together with the Institute for Local Self-Government and Public Procurement of Maribor, prepared a proposal for a law which I had tabled for consideration. This proposal deals solely with funeral and burial activities, which it defines as a compulsory local economic service organised by the municipality in the form laid down by the Law on Economic Public Services. Funeral services, which are subject to public service, include: the first transport of the deceased and the provision of a permanent on-call service for the transport of the deceased within the local community, the preparation of funeral survivors, the preparation and execution of minimum funeral activities, the burial of the deceased and the service of the gravesters. The first transport of the deceased is from the place of death to the cooling areas. For reasons of clarity, the law lays down which activities are not subject to public service. As funeral services that are not subject to the economic service, they consider: the transport of the deceased, if not the first transport, funeral ceremonies exceeding the minimum, cremation of the deceased and embalming of the deceased. In this part, this proposal differs significantly from the proposal made by the Ministry of Economy and this activity has been defined as a market activity. The municipalities would remain as a public service only to regulate and maintain the cemetery. The management of the cemetery, which is under the responsibility of the local community, consists primarily of the management of burial sites and common burial facilities, facilities and infrastructure, the provision of rental graves, the management of the cadastral and other records, and the issuing of consensus or opinions on the intervention in the area of burial sites. The proposal for a law gives the local communities considerable competence to ensure the conduct of an economic public service within their territory, covering the management of burial sites and the provision of certain types of funeral services. Due to the lack of provisions of the current law, funeral service providers face problems that are often incomprehensible because of their nature and appetite to the deceased and their relatives. These are mainly problems in determining the protocol of the last path of the deceased, determining the time of burial, order of order, symbols and so on. They also have problems, particularly in small municipalities, which, by their decrees, often regulate funeral activities contrary to regulations and powers. It is for this reason that the law uniformly regulates the rules of obligations and rights, both for funeral operators and funeral operators. Only then will the rules for all be the same and the problems in practice will result in fewer. In accordance with Article 3 of the Law, local communities will ensure the conduct of an economic public service, the conduct of funeral activities and the management of burial sites. In view of the fact that I am running out of time, the draft law sets out the conditions that public service operators must fulfil, let me add that we are adopting the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the basis of which we have prepared in the Slovenian People's Party's Group a proposal for amendments that the Committee on the Economy could adopt as its own and thus improve the bill. However, we are not surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as always, also this time opposes the solutions drawn up by the opposition party or the proposal for a law put into the procedure by the opposition Member. I believe that a new law on funeral activities and funeral operations is necessary and I propose that, with any amendments or amendments, we also adopt it as suitable for further consideration and that we also resolve this issue. As a result of my activities, the trainees have only accelerated the regulation of this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. The word has magic. Darja Radič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. With regard to the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the following opinion. The Ministry of the Economy, as mentioned, has already taken the initiative of the public concerned to amend the Law on Funeral Activities and Management of Cemetery in 2007 and these amendments should also be in accordance with the Directive of the European Union. Due to the very different opinions of the public concerned, this law was postponed or postponed to 2009 in 2008 or the adoption of this law. The proposal for a law on funeral activity and funeral management prepared by the Ministry of Economy is now just before the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal prepared by the Ministry of Economy also distinguishes between funeral activity and funeral management as well as the proposal submitted by the Member of Parliament for consideration. In both proposals, the management of the cemetery remains an economic public service. The essential difference between the proposals is the way in which funeral activities are carried out. The proposal for a law submitted for consideration, Mr Member, provides that funeral services are divided into funeral services which are within the competence of the local community and are carried out as a public economic service and into funeral services provided on the free market. However, the Ministry of Economy's proposal provides that all funeral services other than the first transport of the deceased shall be provided as regulated economic activities in the free market. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed division of the funeral service, which is intended to be the responsibility of the local community and to be carried out as a public economic service and funeral services provided on the free market, is not an appropriate solution. Furthermore, the proposal for a law submitted by a Member for consideration does not contain a clear division of funeral activities into the market and public part, which raises the question of who would provide funeral services that exceed the minimum and who all other funeral services. The services to be carried out in the open market are the cremation of the deceased, embalming the deceased, transporting the deceased if it is not the first transport, and, as proposed by law, would be without proper regulation. It is therefore a matter of such largely inadequate solutions that they could not be rectified by amendments in the adoption process. The relevant solution, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, can be adopted on the basis of a law prepared by the Ministry of the Economy and will be submitted to the National Assembly in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! This law regulates funeral activity and the management of burial sites and lays down the conditions for carrying out this activity and is not only a proposal from the opposition, but also in some ways a reflection of the need expressed by local communities or municipalities. The local community shall, in accordance with the law governing economic public services, ensure the conduct of the economic public service and the conduct of funeral activities and the management of burial sites. If the local community does not provide - this is essential - the implementation of the compulsory public service referred to in paragraph 1 shall be ensured by the State in the local community area at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, since this law is old, from the time of the SFRJ, it bears the year 1984 when we adopted it. In fact, the Community wants to ensure its own interest here in some way so that the municipality does not remain merely a space manager and a profit-making activity in this area is carried out by an individual. This is divided into burial activities and funeral activities; the latter is regulated economic activity on the free market, which also enables competitiveness and not monopoly. Of course, we welcome such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party, and it is important to be careful that we do not afford special profits in the field of economic activity, because we know that this is a sensitive area and it is not right that we are only dealing with this issue in a manner that is moral and also necessary today. It is unacceptable, however, that we now have two laws, one that is being prepared by the Government, and today we have a law that has been tabled by a Member and reflects the need of local communities or congregations. So again, we experience some speculation, what's better, what's worse, and we argue about why what's here isn't good. I don't understand why the government doesn't approach this and once constructively says, with our amendments, we're going to supplement this law, we're going to adopt it, and we're going to essentially solve the problem right now. Of course, we will attach this to the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Miroslav Klun, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting from me as well! It is interesting that in our own hands we received in very short time two proposals for a single law, which in a similar way defined the issue and which were similar in their own interpretation. First, this law was sent for coordination by the Government and within a few weeks, if not days, a slightly modified law was proposed to the National Assembly by Mr Ribič. Although the proposals are similarly structured, there is a key difference in the way funeral activities are carried out. Mr Ribič's proposal separates this activity into two parts. In particular, funeral services which are under the responsibility of the local community and are operated as a public economic service and funeral services provided free of charge. While in the government proposal, with the exception of the first transport of pensions, all funeral services are provided as regulated economic activities on the free market, which is in accordance with European legislation and market economy mode and limits the monopoly of some. It is precisely because of this difference that we, the Government and the Committee on the Economy, which has treated the law as a working mother body, find it inappropriate to deal with it further. However, it certainly makes sense to note that the law should be adopted and organised with amendments in such a way as to adequately define the funeral service. However, according to the legal profession, such a change would not have been possible without the effect that the law in practice would not have been enforceable. Although Mr Ribič's proposal cannot be accepted by the Group of Social Democrats and we will support the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, we will see the proposal as a welcome proposal in the Group of Members and as a wish to speed up the resolution of the area under consideration. Furthermore, we are convinced that the Government will also take into account the good guidelines used by the proposer in its proposal and submit its proposal to the National Assembly in a short time. Once again, we will support the Committee on the Economy's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you. Dear President, everyone else is present! The Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, 1984, despite some changes or replacing provisions of the law from other legal areas, has not yet undergone significant changes. Due to weak and outdated legislation, various interpretations of the Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemeteries have come into practice, which have led to completely different arrangements for funeral and funeral activities by municipalities. Thus, it is often the case that municipal decrees by which municipalities under the Law on Local Self-Government determine the ways and conditions for the provision of burial services, the award of concessions and the execution of works at burial sites with public workers were not in accordance with that law. Some municipalities have thus granted concessions to carry out funeral and funeral activities, while others have left the operation of funeral activities to the free market. The proposal for a new Law on Funeral and Cemetery Management substantially changes the current legal regime in this area. The Funeral and Cemetery Management Act does not separate funeral and burial activities, but regulates them individually. At the same time, it sets the scope of public service activities and separates them from market activities. The bill therefore distinguishes between a funeral activity carried out on the free market and an activity which is the subject of public service under the responsibility of the local community. The aim of the law is to eliminate the chaotic situation on the market that has arisen due to the unanimity of the conditions for the award of concessions and the organisation of activities. There was no support for the proposal for a law following inter-departmental coordination and after consideration on the labour market. Thus, the construction of the cemetery remains an economic public service. However, there is a significant difference in the way funeral activities are carried out. The proposal from the Ministry of Economy provides that all funeral services other than the first transport of the deceased shall be provided as regulated economic activities in the free market. The bill under consideration does not contain a clear division of funeral activities into the market and public part, and therefore the question of who would provide funeral services beyond the minimum and who all other funeral services are. The fact is that this area needs to be systematically regulated in a meaningful way. Therefore, according to our assessment, the bill is a step in the right direction and we do not oppose this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Tadej Slapnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Madam Secretary of State! In the Parliamentary Group, we do assess that there are two reasons for today's consideration of the proposal for the Law on Funeral Activities and Management of Cemetery. The first, with which the proposer also agrees, is that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has not been successful in preparing and coordinating its views on the new law prepared by the Ministry of Economy. In this work, let us remind ourselves once again that the Ministry of Economy has begun to prepare a new law already in 2007, but was unable to prepare it in the mandate of Minister Visiak. In this mandate, the real need to regulate this area was clearly not detected by the then SLS government party. In the Parliamentary Group, we really agree with the proposed provisions of the law in the work that distinguish funeral activity from the activities of cemetery management. We also agree that the management of the cemetery must remain an economic public service. Unfortunately, however, the proposaler did not convince us that he was proposing a more appropriate way to carry out the funeral work. Today we cannot determine whether this will succeed the Ministry of Economy, which advocates the provision that all funeral services, except the first transport of the deceased, must be carried out as a regulated economic activity in the free market. This will be answered when a proposal for a new law is put into the legislative process. The Ministry of Economy is predicting that this will happen this month. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proposal for a law has failed to respond satisfactorily to two key questions: where and how to set a legal limit that will prevent the exploitation of relatives at the time of the most difficult moments when their loved ones die and that it will provide them with quality, affordable and mutually comparable services. There are also no provisions in the proposal for a law that will effectively prevent the so-called commercial fight for dead persons between companies engaged in funeral activities. However, we expect this to be achieved by the Ministry of the Economy. We are also convinced that the Ministry will be more successful if the finalisation of the proposal for a new law is re-engaged by all interested public, i.e. the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Although the draft law pointed out the positions of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia by means of a proposal for a public law, it also had a direct impact on the fact that we will decide significantly later in the National Assembly on the comprehensive regulation of funeral activities and the management of burial sites. And that is what we see in the Group of Members. Indeed, there is another reason that led the proposer in the drafting of the law, because he worked very hard and introduced the law just before the Government did so. This, according to our assessment, has been more plausible than a creative contribution to the comprehensive regulation of this important area. In the process of adopting the law announced by the Ministry of the Economy, the honourable Member will have the opportunity to correct your impression. They also have an additional option for the Ministry of Economy and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. The Ministry to include more comprehensively the proposals of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, and the latter to participate more actively in the search for consensus. The draft law that we are discussing today will not really be supported in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have a comment on my forerunner. In his words, he said that the SLS Group obviously did not feel the need at the time when one of the coalition's parties was also in order to "force" the preparation of that law. So I'm deeply protesting this. We have worked at different times, including in governments. With that in mind, I would say to Mr. Slapnik that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u17	Mr. President, that's a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u18	If you'll excuse me. Works in one of the successor groups, probably LDS, which has also participated in many governments in the past [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u19	It's a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u20	And even by this logic, I should not have drawn up any law in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u21	Mr President, this is a replica and a controversy with the views of the parliamentary groups not possible. Yes, unfortunately, several times the views of the parliamentary groups take a critical look at others, and if the debate follows, it is so much better. But this is not possible at this point and I would ask you not to use the procedural proposal to make replicas, because that is not possible. But you'll all have the opportunity to work together in a new marriage. The text is by Franz Znidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! Members of the DeSUS are convinced that the area of legal regulation of funeral and funeral management needs to be completely changed by the creation of a new law or by the existing law governing this area, and that the legal regulation should be properly adapted to the changed social situation. The fact is that since 1984 the Third Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and the Regulation of Cemetery in the light of today's situation has been an outdated legislation, which has caused many different and divergent interpretations, resulting in a different regulation of the public service. The DeSUS Group notes that the Ministry of Economy, at the initiative of the interested public, joined the drafting of the new law in 2007 and that this proposal has been tabled in August this year. So we have two texts that regulate the same area, and it's surprisingly interesting that this marriage text is almost identical to the previous one, that is to say the government. In fact, the review of both of us, as DeSUS Members have found, shows that now the proposed proposal includes more than half of the articles that are literally identical to the government proposal, but it is only in the fact that the government proposal is written more in the wider public, common interest, whereas the proposal currently under consideration reflects local orientation. In short, given the comparison of the two texts, the Group concluded that the government proposal represents a more general interest, which includes European guidelines which are not followed by the proposal under consideration, so the proposal for a law on funeral activities and funeral management, which is signed by Mr Janez Ribič, does not support or support the decision of the home labour body that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. The problem is also that only the proposer voted on the committee for this law and eight others were opposed. From the above, let me just say that we will make our comments on the government proposal, which I hope will come into the procedure as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. He has the word, Franz Bogovic, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u24	Nice greeting, President. Dear Member, esteemed colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we certainly support the proposal for a law on funeral activity and funeral management, because the legislation in force in this area is really outdated. The previous mandate has been amended, unfortunately no realisation has taken place, even in this mandate the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ensures that the proposal for a law on funeral activity is practically ready and harmonised, but as far as we know, it has not yet been incorporated into the legislative procedure. Of course, we are not surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or coalition parties, which, as always, opposes the solutions prepared by the opposition party. In the SLS Group, we are convinced that this bill is necessary because the legislation in force is still talking about community activities of special social importance because there are different interpretations, what is done as a concession and what is in the open market and what is the relationship between those who have a concession and those who have only a trade permit, because the concession has only half of the 170 independent entrepreneurs who are engaged in funeral activities. The proposal for a Funeral Activities Act in the Management of Cemetery sets out more clearly the conditions for carrying out funeral activities and the scope of the public service, which is demarcated from market activity. The bill therefore provides that funeral services are divided into those within the jurisdiction of the local community and are carried out as public economic services and into those funeral services provided in the open market. The proposal contains the subject of a basic minimum funeral service and the subject of an economic public service is not: transport of the deceased, if not the first translation, funeral ceremonies exceeding the minimum, cremation of the deceased and embalming of the deceased. The bill also sets out the scope of the operation from the cemetery, regulates the cemetery and common cemetery facilities, facilities and infrastructure, renting of graves, management of the cadastral and issuing of opinions or opinions on the operation of the cemetery. In the SLS Group, we believe that the new Funeral and Cemetery Management Act is necessary, and we regret that the proposal by Comrade Ribič on the Home Committee has not received support. The proposal is a good basis and with possible amendments, we could make good arrangements for this area, which is now out of date and therefore there are many problems. For this reason, the Members of the SLS Group will vote against the proposal for a decision proposed by the Committee on the Economy. Given that we have also been informed today that in a short period of time, what this term means has not been explained whether this shortness of measure is to be measured in weeks, months, years, and other law, which is supposed not to be adopted by our proposed one, we hope that this law will be prepared with sufficient tenderness and a great deal of patriotism to the relatives, because today we have heard the deadline for it to appear on the ground "the fight for the dead", and unfortunately this is happening in a loving way. And I fear that this area is one that unfortunately does not allow for the extremeness of commercial market activity and the targeting of the market, but, above all, the targeting of the many people who are most affected at that time. With great attention, as long as our marriage is not adopted today, we will also be very attentive to government law, and we will be very actively involved in such a solution that will be appropriate for Slovenia and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or no later than 21:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW, A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Darja Radič, State Secretary, Ministry of the Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Dear Members! In opening, I will present the key amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act. The first such amendment is the deletion of Article 43.f which regulates the abuse of a consumer's payment or credit card in the case of distance contracts. In view of the adoption of Directive 207/64 of the European Parliament of 2007 on payment services in the internal market, Article 8 of the Directives 37/7 and 2002/65, which concerns the misuse of the payment card, was deleted by amending Directives 37/7 and 2002/65, and on this basis it was the duty of the Member States to bring their national legislation into line with the amended provisions of the newly adopted Directive by 1 November 2009 at the latest. The misuse of a consumer card in distance sales will be transferred to Slovenia by means of the implementation of the Payment Services and Systems Act, which is foreseen on 1 November 2009, which requires the deletion of Article 43.f of the Consumer Protection Act, which has so far summarized both deleted articles of the Directives. The Payment Services and Systems Act will also fully regulate the rights and obligations of the parties when the payment card is misused. That's the first change. The second amendment is an amendment to the text of point 7 of paragraph 1 of Article 18 of the Consumer Protection Act. However, this change is mainly necessary in order to align and adapt the obligations of companies, both producers and sellers, under the voluntary guarantee institution, which is now equivalent in the Consumer Protection Act to a mandatory guarantee for the smooth functioning of things. In practice, the levelling of both types of guarantees creates disproportionate obligations for manufacturers and sellers to offer consumers an even longer voluntary guarantee in addition to the mandatory. With these changes, the obligation of the manufacturer will continue for another three years after the expiry of the warranty period, which means that the voluntary guarantee period will be added to another three years and will no longer be multiplied as it has now been regulated in the law. The third amendment is an amendment to Article 57f of the Law, the proposed solution of which is the equalization of the rights of passengers under Article 201, paragraph 4, of the Bond Law and Article 57f, of the Consumer Protection Act in cases where the travel organiser has only the right to reimbursement of his costs. The amendment of Article 57f of the Consumer Protection Act will eliminate the disagreement between the two laws governing the same institution. The other changes in the text are essentially smaller and are needed to correct errors or different, wrong numbering points in amendments to the Consumer Protection Act C. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. The government has drawn up a proposal for a law, the Committee on the Economy has treated it as its parent working body and has taken into account the decision of the College, which has agreed with the Government's proposal to do so in the short term. The material we received as the basis for our consideration is the material prepared by the Government. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was addressed to us in this regard, contained two comments. The coalition's amendments were proposed and the amendment proposed by the Union of Consumer Associations and the Zasavje Consumers' Association, two amendments that are substantively identical. We also received comments from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as comments from the Association of Slovenian Consumers. All those who made comments and were responsible for this area were present, with the exception of the representatives of the Zasavje Consumers' Association, who apologized. The introduction to the debate was made by Minister Lahovnik, which I will not repeat, as the Secretary of State has already said. Let me just mention that, as an additional to its proposals, the Government has adopted amendments to the deadlines proposed by the Chambers. The Legislative and Legal Service has made comments which have been taken into account with the amendments. In fact, the debate was only about the warranty deadlines. The competence of the Committee on the Economy, both in the field of consumer protection and representation of the interests of the economy, has proved to be a challenge for cities. It turned out that they were consumer and economic views to each other, and in this diapazone from one extreme to the other, the Committee also debated. The Union of Slovenian Consumers has assessed that the current regime is inadequate, lifeless, that the economy needs to be unloaded. However, she suggested that this should be done by retaining some credit ratings on the consumer side by limiting it to an absolute number of 10 years as regards guarantees. The Chamber of Commerce has proposed something else. She suggested that the economy be radically burdened. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, however, assessed that the proposal drafted by the Government was a compromise for them, which is acceptable. Comments also fell on the reduced process and on the lack of coordination within the professional council. Some comments were also made regarding this arrangement, with excessive economic burdens, with high costs and non-competitiveness, as represented by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. However, the Committee itself has listened to the criticism of the procedure and has agreed in part, and has assessed that there is nothing wrong with defending the interests of consumers within the Committee and defending the interests of a favourable attitude towards the environment, as the proposed reduction of the warranty deadlines implies that profits will be assumed against the useful value of the goods that we are talking about, in this way, to accelerate the elimination of still useful products from use and thus increase both material and energy entropy. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce also pointed out that this is a law that is also appropriate in the sense of promoting technological improvements and that this will have a favourable impact on environmental protection. The amendment proposed by the coalition was adopted after the debate. The proposal by the Slovenian Consumers' Association for the amendment was not adopted, so it was not decided on. The amended proposal was adopted by the Committee as a proposal to be adopted at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u30	Hello, everyone in the hall, especially the well-known representatives of the government! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, in addition to harmonisation changes, makes a major change in the definition of the guarantee period for the provision of maintenance and the provision of spare parts. This substantial change concerns the reduction of the obligations of producers and sellers. In Slovenia, we have a legal framework that requires manufacturers and sellers to provide a mandatory guarantee for at least one year and after the expiry of a three-fold guarantee period after which they have to provide replacement parts. In addition to the compulsory guarantee institution, the law also defines a voluntary guarantee institution subject to the same rules for providing spare parts after the threefold period of the guarantee in force. Since we are pursuing the objective of promoting the competitiveness of Slovenian producers and sellers in liberal democracy, in particular in these times of crisis we support the reduction of the obligation to provide spare parts for voluntary guarantees. Since a voluntary guarantee is an institution served by companies wishing to provide a more comprehensive guarantee period, it is reasonable not to make this more difficult for them. This will further relieve companies offering more favourable guarantees. Today, due to this three-time rule, companies are in practice deciding on a compulsory guarantee that lasts for at least one year, which means that spare parts must be provided three years after the guarantee expires. In fact, the proposal for amendments does not significantly affect the reduction of the period of provision of spare parts, since the proposed law will allow the period to be at least three years. On the other hand, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware of the dangers arising from the fact that consumers may be exposed to certain risks if manufacturers or sellers, through promotional actions, of market products with a longer warranty period and provide spare parts for only three years. We therefore call on the competent institutions and organisations to keep abreast of the effects of the changes envisaged so that consumers do not have negative effects. Since the culture of consumer protection in Slovenia is still at the development stage, we believe in the Liberal Democracy that they need to find the right balance between the conditions that enable the manufacturer to achieve the highest possible degree of competitiveness and that the consumer is adequately protected and protected. In the light of the discussion on the parental committee and the proposed extensions in the law, we also assess that the amendment of the law is appropriate and that we will support it in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u31	Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected. We social democrats are working to ensure that the society in which we live is to the greatest extent distinguished by the characteristics of the social market economy, where the market is "adjusted" with public interest, that as a community we regulate those market self-regulation deviations that undermine the necessary balance in society. The current economic and financial crisis also proves that the market needs this regulatory function of public interest. However, the market also has a control mechanism in place in its structure. We're people or, if you want, consumers. As buyers of goods and services, we provide a key function to eliminate a facsimile offer and rationally assess what is the best price for the obtained value. In Slovenia we have strong consumer organisations and also thanks to the Consumer Protection Act a good public awareness system based on partnership between people and consumer associations. This, however, represents an important correction to provide people with quality and safe products and services at the best possible price. In this respect, we are the Social Democrats who believe that this system needs to be strengthened and that it has more opportunities to become an effective system of public control over the market, over goods and services. With this amendment and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, we therefore upgrade the existing, in general conviction, good system. The new regime of the voluntary guarantee must be given the highest priority to both the public concerned and the Committee on the Economy. Even though it seems at first sight that, by changing the three-time warranty in the light of the time of the voluntary guarantee, we are reducing the consumer's right to operate smoothly, we are convinced that it is precisely by changing this guarantee to three years after the time of the voluntary guarantee that we are actually extending this guarantee and strengthening consumer protection. Due to the high costs of this guarantee, the economy has decided on short-term voluntary guarantees, for example, for one year, which together constituted a three-year guarantee. To a greater extent, however, voluntary guarantees were not decided at all. The change will make the voluntary guarantee more market-oriented, so more traders will decide to offer longer voluntary guarantees, for example, for five years, which will constitute an important component of their competitive advantage. The eight-year guarantee thus reached in this case will thus constitute a gain and not a loss of justice for the consumer. In doing so, it is worth noting that the opinions of consumer organisations and economies have been shared. We think that because of the diametrically opposed views on this issue it is difficult to reach consensus, so we attach to the Government's position that it has found a middle ground between stakeholders' views and provided a solution that will allow for the wider application of a longer voluntary guarantee and thus a longer guarantee for the smooth functioning of the matter. The other amendments introduced by the law only address the errors and shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law. They eliminate non-compliance with the Bond Law relating to the obligations of the consumer when leaving the journey. In addition, they coordinate our legal order with the European in the provisions defining the obligations of the parties in the event of the misuse of payment cards, which we have already introduced into the Slovenian legal order by adopting the Law on Payment Systems and Services. In the belief that the proposed amendment strengthens effective consumer control and extends consumer rights, the proposed amendment of the Consumer Protection Act will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is given by Daniel Krivec, on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Procedural Mr. Puksic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since we talked about funeral activities earlier, but now we're talking about consumer protection, I don't really understand that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u35	This is not a procedural proposal, Mr. Puksic!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u36	It will be procedural to put to the vote that the government coalition no longer thinks about stupid law. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. I took your voice. I think you've abused the Institute of Procedural Affairs completely directly and directly. Please take a seat! Thank you very much. The word has Apologize for this, I would say, deposit - by the Member of course. [[...]] Daniel Krivec has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We also want to strengthen consumer protection in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is easier to achieve in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, through more efficient information to consumers, free advice, more effective market surveillance and the transfer of good European practices and directives. The latter is just the content of the bill. The proposed amendments, according to the applicant, do not change the basic principles of the law. The proposed amendments to the law are aimed at complementing legal solutions that are not yet in line with European Union law. However, amendments to the law ensure compliance with the requirements of Directive 2007/64 of the European Community and its transposition into domestic law. The second objective of the proposed law is to correct the errors of the Consumer Protection Act in order to comply with the legal order and legal certainty, and the third objective is to adapt the obligations of manufacturers associated with the voluntary guarantee. Thus, the text of Article 18, paragraph 7, is amended where the amendment relates to the arrangements and adjustments of obligations of manufacturers and sellers on the basis of a voluntary guarantee equivalent in the Consumers Act to a mandatory guarantee for the smooth operation of things. In practice, the equalisation of both guarantees creates disproportionate obligations for companies that offer a voluntary guarantee to consumers in addition to the mandatory. We estimate that the economy will be more willing to offer voluntary guarantees as a result of this change. Article 43.f is also deleted, which regulates the misuse of consumer card in distance sales, which is newly fully regulated in the new Directive and will be transposed into Slovenia by a new law on payments, services and systems under the 2009 regulatory programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The text of Article 57f is also amended where the proposal equates the rights of passengers under Article 901(4) of the Bond Code and Article 57f of the Consumer Protection Act, as regards cases where the travel organiser is entitled only to reimbursement of his costs. The amendment of Article 57f of the Consumer Protection Act will eliminate the disagreement between the two laws governing the same institution. Amendments to the proposed law, in our view, improve consumer protection measures and at the same time benefit the economy. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u40	Dear Mr President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague. At first glance, the proposed solutions of the New Law on Consumer Protection do not constitute any stumbling block to draw opinions from different stakeholders. The proposal follows only European guidelines after most of the time and corrects the nomotechnic errors of the previous regime. Despite this apparent non-problemity, on the basis of an amendment to the provisions relating to the obligation of producers related to a voluntary guarantee, there have been divergent differences, in particular two - on the one hand, of producers which consider the current arrangements to set the deadline for the enforcement of the guarantee as a disproportionate obligation of individual undertakings, which consequently also affects higher costs, unnecessary administrative burdens and, at the final stage, also a deterioration of competitiveness. On the other hand, consumers who, of course, want to maintain the level of rights they have acquired as enshrined in the applicable law understand the change in the warranty period as disproportionate interference with their rights. Members of the DeSUS understand the arguments of one and the other stakeholders, but we believe that a common solution must be found which will be sufficiently acceptable to both. Our position on this is as follows. We believe that the proposal, which, in other words, is intended to reduce the maintenance of spare parts beyond the warranty period, does not prejudice consumers' rights to the extent that their rights are radically limited. In addition to the regular mandatory guarantee for the smooth functioning of things, the proposal also provides for the obligation of the manufacturer to provide spare parts for a further three years. This means mathematically that the three-year voluntary guarantee period will include years of further provision of spare parts and maintenance. There was some sort of compromise to be found. Members of the DeSUS are of the opinion that this compromise has been formulated in the complementary proposal of the law. This is also evidenced by the fact that none of the additional proposed solutions has been included in the amendment and tabled as an amendment to the proposal, so we will unanimously support the complementary proposal of the Consumer Protection Act in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u42	With a view to adopting a new directive and amending certain existing directives that have so far regulated the consequences of the possible misuse of the consumer card, it is the duty of the Member States to bring their national legislation into line with the amended provisions of the newly adopted directive by 1 November this year at the latest. In the event of an abuse of the payment and credit card, the consumer may exercise his right primarily on the basis of the contract concluded under the general terms of the contract. If the issue of card abuse was not resolved by the contracting party by agreement, the consumer could only apply his property claim in court. The bill before us also affects the area of voluntary and compulsory guarantees. The amendment of the provisions, according to the applicant, is mainly necessary in order to reduce the obligations of companies under a compulsory and voluntary guarantee to ensure the maintenance of intermediate parts and apparatus, as a voluntary guarantee reduces the competitive capacity of Slovenian companies due to the costs incurred by fulfilling the statutory obligations. On the contrary, undertakings offering only a compulsory guarantee are free of obligations after four years. For these reasons, for which we agree, we will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act is, in some ways, necessary. The Slovenian Consumers' Association points out this, as well as the Chamber of Commerce. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we cannot leave the consumer with the right to judicial protection. On the contrary, if we do not correct this 43.f Article, any infringements shall not be subject to inspection and the imposition of legal measures or fines for offences in this case. In the event of an abuse of a payment card or credit card, the consumer could exercise his rights primarily on the basis of the contract concluded and the general contractual terms. If the issue of card abuse could not be resolved by the contracting party in agreement, in this case only judicial protection remained. However, the amendment to Article 7 speaks, as already by my colleagues, of the fact that, in particular, it is necessary to balance the obligations of undertakings on the basis of the obligation and, in essence, to provide a guarantee of maintenance, to provide replacement parts and everything else with a threefold guarantee period in force. And that is right, because in some ways we are also following the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999, which speaks precisely about these matters. If, of course, we do not confirm this today and do not somehow protect the consumer, we allow abuses in this area to continue and, in fact, leave the person who is defrauded or injured only to the fact that he can file a complaint. In the fact that the courts do what they do, you probably know that this is also often because of the financial reasons that the consumer has to give out of his wallet, i.e. the lawsuit costs, it is not possible to do so many times. By means of this law, we will protect the weakest strata of the population, and it is right to confirm this unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the draft law will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGISLATIONAL RESERVATIONS LAW, A SHORT-UP PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Darja Radič, State Secretary from the Ministry of the Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Dear Members! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commodities Reserves proposes the merger of two existing public institutions, namely the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Commodities Reserves, which was established by the Decision of 1995 and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives, which was also established by the Decision of 1999. In fact, the main reason for the changes in the law is the rationalisation of the operation, since both institutions are responsible for the same status form, for a similar work area, the same law provides the legal basis for the establishment of both, the same is the case in the final stage of the department. Accordingly, the main objective of the amendments to the law is to optimise organisation and work processes in the field of basic food and non-food supply in the event of market disturbances and instability, and therefore we want to contribute to the rationalisation of business and consequently to the reduction of public financial expenditure, which is still important during the financial crisis. These changes are also in line with the government's savings programme. The law follows the principle of efficiency and rationality, achieving greater transparency, increasing speed, decision-making and also the effectiveness of the exchange of information between the competent in the supply system in the event of market disturbances and instability. In addition to this major amendment, there are some minor technical corrections as well as the harmonisation of the law with the rules governing offences and in the sense of replacing the imposition of fines with fines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on the Economy also considered this item on the agenda as a working body, on a proposal from the Government, following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Legal and Legislative Service, Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Industry and representatives of the Commission for the Economy, Crafts and Tourism of our Council of State attended this meeting. The Government assessed, as the Secretary of State has said, that this proposal for legislation or amendments and additions can be adopted following a reduced procedure and, among other things, that such acceptance is also available because it considers it one of the anti-crisis measures. The amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 7 have been proposed by four coalition members, or the Members have also been informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance of the Council of State. The Council of State had a fundamental comment on this law, in the sense that the law does not bring about conceptual, that is, strategic considerations regarding the development of energy, to which it was answered that it was not either the aim or the purpose of this law. It was pointed out that the Green Paper was a public debate, that public debate had ended with regard to energy concepts and the national energy development programme, that there had not yet been a synthesis of public debate and that the individual committees of the National Assembly had yet to discuss this topic in their programmes. In his opening remarks, Minister Matej Lahovnik also pointed out, among other things, that the merger of two existing public institutions is about rationalisation and optimisation and organisation of labour processes and the projected savings of EUR 135 000. However, the number of offices, agencies, institutions and so on has also been reduced, as outlined in the Government's plan for this mandate. A representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also discussed that some of the proposals in their opinion had been taken into account, but not all of them. In particular, it pointed out that it did not respond adequately to the issue of specific compensations for financing the creation and provision of mandatory reserves. He also warned that it was not adequately answered with regard to the issue he had pointed out regarding the assets that the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia will transfer to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives for Freight Reserves. The discussion was that since the amendments were adopted, the articles would be open and ready for the meeting of the National Assembly, and we see that at the moment the amendments were not tabled. In the debate, MEPs supported the bill and pointed out that it was a rationalisation that should continue because it was more important than the EUR 135 000 envisaged. After the discussion, they adopted the proposed amendments and proposed to the National Assembly that such an amended law should also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honorable President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary. The economic crisis has led to the need to save at every turn. Accordingly, of course, this government law that we have before us is prepared. The main change introduced in the Slovenian legal order is the merger of two institutions: the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Mandatory Oil Reserves. In addition to rationalising business, such an organisation of control and regulation of reserves is fully considered. Both current institutions provide the basis for the same law. They have the same status form, they work in a similar area, and, finally, the department is the same. In fact, with this reorganisation, if we can say so, we kill two birds at one stroke. I hope that the number of employees in the state administration will be reduced and that, which is also not negligible for EUR 135 000 per year, which is more important, at least in this part will address the biggest public sector deficit compared to other countries, which is an irregular organisation. Although the bill met with some concerns, it was mainly concerns in the State Council, which it also rejected. However, it should be pointed out that the rejection of the broader framework and the actual proposal of the law were not concerned. The Council of State calls for a broader approach to addressing strategic energy issues, which is clearly the starting point for other documents and not for the Law on Trade Reserves. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are also convinced that the merger of both institutions will not in any way reduce the importance of oil reserves or other oil reserves. In view of the above, we will, of course, support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. He has the floor, Marjan Bezjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u52	Hello, Mr. President! Hello, Secretary of State! Member of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! I give the position of the Law on Trade Reserves. The service of the design and consumption of stocks is an economic public service. Reserves are designed to provide basic supplies in the event of major disruptions and instability in supply to the market in the face of major natural and other disasters and in war. The basic supply of the market means the supply of essential food, non-food products necessary for human life and the strategic raw materials and reproductive materials necessary for the provision of production or of particular importance for the defence of the country. In the system of providing basic supplies of food and non-food supplies in disturbances and instability on the market, the economic public service of the creation and use of stocks, including mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives, two public economic institutions, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Commodities Reserves, established by the decision establishing a public economic institution for supply reserves, and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives, established by a decision establishing a public economic institution for the mandatory reserves of oil and its derivatives. With the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Trade Reserves, the proposer states that he is adapting to the poorest possible economic situation in a way that combines the two public economic institutions and thereby reduces public financial expenditure and optimizes and rationalises the public sector system. I hope that the government will continue this path and that certain ministries will also join together so that there will also be visible savings and effects of the government's operation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support action towards optimisation and rationalisation of the public sector and we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Tadej Slapnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u54	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The main solution to the law before us is the rationalisation of the functioning of legal persons of public law. The reorganisation shall take into account the principles of efficiency and rationality. There is greater transparency and supervision, and the speed of decision-making and the effectiveness of information exchange between competent authorities in the supply chain in the face of market disturbances and instability is also increasing. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves adapts to the deteriorating economic situation by combining the two public economic institutions, thereby reducing public financial expenditure and optimising and rationalising the public sector system. Let us recall here that, on the basis of the Commission's application to prevent corruption, an extraordinary internal audit has been set up in advance to verify the correctness and prudence of the operations of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the mandatory reserves of oil and its derivatives in 2007 and 2008. Due to irregularities found at the time, Anton Grebelšek, head of the Local Board of SLS Ljubljana, was dismissed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Tadej Slapnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group. At the end of 2005, there was a deficit of 2 000 litres of heating oil, and the statement said that the deficit was written down by the director, which would mean that he had damaged state reserves for that amount. In the interest of more effective control and prevention of such or similar deviant acts, we will indeed support the proposal for a law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u57	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with a colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Within the Ministry responsible for the economy, a specific supply and supply reserve sector is organised, including the development of a market supply and supply reserve policy and the preparation of supply-related measures in the event of emergencies. Reserves are designed to provide basic supplies in the event of major disturbances, market instability, natural and other disasters and possible war. The institutions associated with this work of the sector are the public economic institution for trade reserves and the economic institution for the mandatory reserves of oil and its derivatives. Proposal for a new amendment to implement a government austerity measure relating to the optimisation of the organisation and functioning of the public sector by providing a solution for the merger of the two public economic institutions in one institution, to which the tasks of the now active compulsory reserve institution are also transferred. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that such unnecessary work and tasks must be done in this and also in other areas. Therefore, we welcome and attach the proposed solution to the DeSUS, because there is no doubt that it represents a step - a small one, but still - to reduce public finances while at the same time forming part of the Government's action to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The Group of Members will support the legislative proposals for the above-mentioned reasons in a uniform manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Bogovic on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u59	I would like one more procedural proposal first, and then I will give an opinion on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u60	Procedural proposal, but I won't allow you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u61	Yes, I won't replicate, but I would warn you, Mr. President. It is constantly happening that from the Group of Ambassadors, they are really referring to the untruths, the lies. There is no Mr Tonet Grabeljska among us, not some Grubeljski or what Mr Slapnik, who does not even know him, has mentioned. It's not true he's been proven guilty of anything. It is true that he is a member of the Ljubljana City Committee, but some of us are more confident that it goes again in this series of procedures by method - discredit and liquidate. I would therefore ask Mr Slapnik to apologize to Mr Grabeljski for thinking that he should do so because of the irregularities he has done in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u62	You will have to agree on this with each other, this is not a task that should be done by the President. Please present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u63	Dear comrades! The position of the Slovenian People's Party in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves is as follows. In the system of providing basic supplies of food and non-food goods in disturbances and instability on the market, the economic public service of the design and use of supplies including mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives are operated by two public economic institutions, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives. It is two public economic institutions for which a merger is proposed in terms of rationalisation. The applicant argues that a key reason for rationalising the functioning of the basic food and non-food supply system in the context of market disturbances and instability is that both institutions are subject to the same status form, similar to the labour area, the same law provides a legal basis for setting up, and the same is the case with the department. In the parliamentary group, we will, despite some reflections, because there is a specific specificity involved in the functioning of institutions, both the functioning and the legal basis, the proposal for a law, mainly on the grounds of the economic situation in Slovenia and in view of the ongoing financial crisis and the projected economic recession, has been supported. However, some of these concerns were highly justified, as the implementation of the Council Group has also proved once again how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In view of the current financial crisis and economic recession, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that the proposal for a law is reasonable and justified. It is therefore based primarily on the reorganisation of two public economic institutions, namely the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives, in order to ensure the principle of efficiency and rationality of the operation of legal persons under public law. The proposed change or organisation will, at least theoretically, represent an adjustment to the poor economic situation and the current crisis and also reduce public financial expenditure and in some way rationalise the functioning of the public sector system. We expect, in the first place, the rationalisation of administrative, technical and financial processes, in particular the reduction of the costs of administration. While the law regulates the issue of employees of directors and members of the Management Board in the final and transitional provisions, it does not specify the details of administration and data on administrative rationalisation, which is likely to become transparent after the adoption of the institution's founding act and after the preparation of the other general acts of the institution. While key strategic issues remain in the field of energy, the law does not define them. This also makes some sense to the Commission of the State Council. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that these changes will make the supply and market stability system more efficient in terms of supply reserves and all too necessary to rationalise the functioning of legal entities in public law in this economic segment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. All right, everybody, welcome back! In the Liberal Democracy, we estimate that the crisis is certainly the time and opportunity to really start dealing with the rationalisation of public administration. A few steps have already been taken in this direction, but much remains to be done. One such measure is certainly a solution brought about by the amendment of the Law on Trade Reserves. This solution brings the association of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Trade Reserves and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Mandatory Reserves of Oil and its Derivatives. These two institutions are, by their nature, established to provide reserves, each covering a substantively different but systemicly equal area. The first is responsible for providing basic supplies of food and non-food goods in disturbances and market instability, while the second is responsible for providing mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives. As explained by the law, both institutions are subject to the same status form, similar to the functioning of the area, the same law provides a legal basis for setting up, and the same is the case with the department. Therefore, the only sensible solution is to unite the institutions into one another. It will thus be rationalised in the field of the provision of supplies, thereby reducing the costs of investments, materials, labour costs and so on. The latter will give priority to reducing investment costs, material costs and the cost of all acquisitions common to both institutions by taking measures to rationalise and optimize labour systems and processes. The Liberal Democrats of Slovenia would also add to this rationalisation that, in addition to reducing costs, processes in the new institution can also be optimized and consequently the efficiency of the institution increased. Such rationalisation in the merger of institutions is also an example of good practice that would apply in other areas of different funds, centres, foundations, offices, agencies and the like. As changes in the law bring good solutions that will burden public administration in these times of crisis, we will also support the law in the Liberal Democrats' House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the time of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education within the framework of the shorter procedure - the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by Member Franz Puksič. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Majdi Potrat for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members! At its 11th session, on 6 October, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted by Mr Pukšič for consideration following a reduced procedure. The reduced procedure was also confirmed by the College by a special decision on 5 June 2009, and the law was therefore dealt with under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, made comments to all three articles of the law. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 12 June 2009, which sets out the reasons why the proposed solutions are not supported and considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Within the prescribed time limit, amendments to all three articles of the law were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. Mr Puksic, the bill-maker, introduced a supplementary explanation of the bill. He said that he wanted to protect professional workers with a novelty who, due to amendments to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, did not have adequate education and to regulate the status of directors. He considered that the directors or performers of the Director’s duties under their regular term of office, as well as the directors who, after 2005, for any reason ceased to fulfil the conditions for the Director and could be reappointed to the post or to a new appointment. The State Secretary, Alenka Kovšca, stated in an additional explanation for the opinion of the Government that the adoption of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of education and education was governed by the status of teachers with the sixth degree of education. It explained that a short interruption does not mean a cessation of continuous work in the field of education and education. However, if the interruption was longer, because of the continuing professional education and additional training required for nine-year-old learning, the worker can no longer perform quality work. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, Marta Briška briefly presented the opinion and pointed out that the issues arising from the proposed law were largely addressed in the adopted government amendment. Taking into account the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it was proposed, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure, that the Committee should first discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on this proposal, the members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the situation of teachers and other professional workers working in education and education with the sixth level of education. Some discussers supported the proposed amendment because they felt that it should be possible to run equally for teachers and other professionals in the field of education and education with a sixth degree of education in the job market as well as for all those with adequate education. The representative of the Government claimed that under Article 146 of the ZOFVI, teachers with the sixth level of education were in the exact same situation as others, with the statutory level of the seventh level of education. She also explained that the law limits the suspension of work to three months and that work can be suspended several times. Others felt, however, that the problem of teachers with the sixth level of education was not as severe as shown in the novel and that most had every opportunity to obtain an education. At the end of the break-up period, however, it may be possible for those with a sixth level of education who have never worked in school to apply for the invitation to tender. By 10 votes in favour and 5 against, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. Members are invited to confirm such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposaler of the law, Franz Puksic, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues, it is true that paragraphs 2 and 3 of the draft law are irrelevant, as this law has been introduced before the government law. When I entered into the marriage, I had to complete it. It was an instruction from the National Assembly. This interim period was used by the Government for two or three days, and the Government filed its marriage. Let's let these little things go. Why is that? We're used to it now. The essence of the law was to solve two problems. The first is that teachers and teachers with higher education should not be treated in such a discriminatory way as to progress and when it comes to employment or termination or forgiveness. However, the second objective was to educate and resolve the issue of directors. This second objective has also been achieved by the Government, through its amendment of the law. The second objective concerns 50 directors in the Republic of Slovenia. The first objective concerns some 5,000 teachers and teachers. The Government has not resolved this by amending its law, nor has it resolved it with the proposed amendment which has been tabled, and therefore the current nature of this law is still large enough to be adopted along with the proposed amendments. I therefore appeal that we do not adopt such a decision as has been drawn up by the Committee. The basis for not adopting such a decision is the letter from the SWIZ, which means the education and education union from Styria, where they wrote that in other countries the level of education has also increased, but all teachers with lower education have been compared with other teachers. It is not true that teachers and teachers in the sixth grade are treated the same way as they were in the seventh grade. You won't convince me that a teacher who teaches 30 years in school and has a 91-day interruption means from 15 June to 16 September, that she is no longer able to do her job on 16 September. 15. I'd still be if I got a job again in those 90s, and the next day it's gone. It's discriminatory, it's humiliating what I think we should not allow. Although Article 146 of the 1996 Amendment provided for the possibility for teachers and teachers to continue their studies at grade 6 but until the end of their working relationship. Even so, if they broke up in one institution and went to another establishment to the same job, of course, they no longer met the conditions. It is therefore high time, therefore, that after 13 years of validity of this law, we restore to these teachers and teachers their dignity at human and professional level. There were 14 in the newspaper, too. 6. 2009 was clearly written, the definition of teachers takes up the department forever, forever after 30 years of work. Or in the Ptuj Week they wrote, a three-month rest means permanent loss of work. Colleagues and colleagues, but I do not understand the union which did not support these teachers and teachers at national level. It seems to me that Struklo is about the same as Semolic that he cares more about Bobinac having 16 000 euros in salary than a worker of 600 euros. Here with the teachers, I think it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Alenka Kovšca, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u73	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! Day 14. 8. 2009 amendments to the Education and Education Financing Act have entered into force, which has addressed a number of pressing issues in the area of education and education financing. Mr Puksic's proposal would like to arrange for a new 146th Article, which is worse than the current regulation. Article 146 of the ZOFVI provides for the protection of professional workers, i.e. teachers, educators, counsellors, librarians, and protects them in the sense that they are entitled to continue to carry out educational work for which they have received appropriate education provided for by the applicable law and other regulations and fulfil the other conditions, although they no longer have adequate education in accordance with the established provisions for such work. However, the work of a professional in the field of education and education can still be carried out, which means that, by law, they fulfil certain conditions for the exercise of educational work and that all those who fulfil certain conditions for the exercise of educational and educational work in a working relationship in the education and education system are equally eligible for the job published until the end of continuous work in the field of education and education. Moreover, Article 146 of the ZOFVI Amendment provides that even a three-month or shorter interruption does not mean an interruption of continuous work in the field of education and education. The provision thus also protects workers who, as technological surpluses in the future, could break the working relationship and continue it in another institution. In doing so, it is necessary to take into account the transitional provision of Article 10 of the amendment of the ZOFVI, which provides that, by implementing the amendment of Article 146 of the Act, those professionals who fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 146(1), Articles 147 and 148 of the Act and Article 42 of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, namely those who carried out the work in the field of education and education on 24.6.2009, irrespective of the length of possible interruptions in the work in the field of education and education during the period of 15.3.1996 and 26.4.2008 to 24.6.2009, which means that the transitional provision protects all professional workers who, at the time of the entry into force of the ZOFVI on 15 March 1996, have fulfilled the conditions for carrying out the educational and educational work and later, to whatever extent they have interrupted the working relationship in the field of education and education. Mr Puksic's proposal, as well as the amendment tabled, brings professional workers back to a situation such as the amendment of Article 146 of the ZOFVI. The protection provided for in Article 146a is intended for professionals defined in Article 92, which provides that educational and other professional work in public kindergartens or schools shall be carried out by teachers, teachers, advisers, librarians and other professional workers, i.e. those who have a working relationship and are assigned to a specific professional position in the field of education and education, which means that the proposed Article 146.a would protect in the manner provided for, but only as long as the professional staff are employed in the education and education system of a particular professional worker. At the same time, Mr Puksic's proposal, as well as the amendment tabled, stressing equal treatment for candidates and employment in job vacancies, restricts the protection provided for in Article 146 of the ZOFVI, since, at this point, Article 146 provides for equal treatment regardless of whether or not the vacancy is reserved or published. Because I'm gonna run out of time, that's all. In education and education this instant employs 6,750 workers with a sixth degree of education for an indefinite period of time. For a certain period of more than 10 years of working time, only 114, which represents less than 2% of all workers. Workers can make equivalent progress in titles and are protected by the Labour Relations and Collective Agreement Act when it comes to the issue of technological surpluses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Alexander Zorn has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u75	Your Honor! The new school legislation adopted in 1996 came under the poor protection of a large number of professionals who did not meet all the educational conditions. Professionals employed in the field of education and education were protected, but were linked to an uninterrupted working relationship. Professionals employed in the field of education and education as defined in Article 146, paragraphs 1 and 4, of the ZOFVI fulfil the educational conditions for carrying out work in the field of education and education. In the SDS Group, we advocate the principle of equal treatment of workers in the field of education and education. We believe that it is necessary to make it possible to run for office in another institution, and that is why we have proposed an amendment for the treatment of the home labour body that all should be treated equally in the event of termination of the education and education employment. This means that they can run and work under the same conditions as other candidates, including those who do not. It's usually older teachers just before retirement. We heard there were very few of them. More reasons to protect them. With the proposed amendments contained in the proposed proposal for the new ZOFVI, it is necessary to restore professional and human dignity to teachers with higher education. We are surprised by the fact that there was no representative of the education union present in the treatment of the home labour body. We have therefore proposed an amendment to the new Article defining the fulfilment of the educational conditions for education in the field of education in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This decision will allow teachers to be equally nominated with the sixth level of education at the teacher's post, which means that they can run and work under the same conditions as candidates with higher education. Therefore, we will not support the SDS Group's decision by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and Youth that the ZOFI proposal is not suitable for further consideration and we will vote that it is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Group, we really believe that the quality of school and the professional competence of teachers and administrators is an absolute priority, which is certainly more important than any cheap demagogy. Mr Pukšič, the proposed amendment of the law, aims to protect professional workers with new content who, due to amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, do not have adequate education and to regulate the status of directors. On the Education Committee, my colleague Puksic pointed out that directors or managers of the duties of directors who are in the course of a regular term, as well as directors who have ceased their term of office for any reason in 2005, are eligible for a term of office and can be reappointed or appointed to a new position. Indeed, we have carefully examined the proposal for a novel in the Group of Members, but we must agree with the Government's position, which says that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financing Education and Education has already regulated the status of teachers with the sixth level of education. The fact is that a three-month or shorter interruption does not mean the interruption of continuous work in the field of education and education. As the Government's representative said, a worker whose absence is longer can no longer perform quality work due to the continuous professional education and additional training required for learning in a nine-year-old. The 1996 law changed the educational conditions where higher education is required today. According to our assessment, the proposal does not act stimulifully on professional workers to obtain the missing level of education in accordance with the relevant legislation, although they can, as has already been said, continue to do their work. I would like to recall, however, that at its 8th regular session, the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a law which was forwarded by the Government to Parliament in May. In the context of its text, the Government has dealt more appropriately with both issues, including the proposal by the proposer. 146. According to our assessment, it is clear that for continuous work and not for an uninterrupted working relationship, which in practice led to different or inadequate conduct of individual schools. With regard to the regulation of the educational conditions of applicants for principals, today's proposal is identical to the adopted law. We will therefore support the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth in the Parliamentary Group, which says that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Vasja Klavora on behalf of the Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u79	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. The adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financing Education and Education, in July this year, has also regulated the status of teachers with the sixth level of education. The fact is that a three-month or short interruption does not mean an interruption of continuous work in the field of education and education. However, if the interruption is longer, because of the continuing professional education and additional training required to study in a nine-year-old, the worker can no longer perform quality work. Since the proposal for a novel regulates a problem that has already been addressed in our assessment, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Pukšič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u81	Once again a nice greeting from my colleague and colleague! Mr. President, Secretary of State! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, of course, we support the changes and additions made to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. These changes in the law protect workers and workers in education and education with completed higher education. Earlier, it was rightly said that some 6,000 and some of them were violated or violated because of the lack of clarity of the legal provisions. Also, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, proposed by the Government this year and adopted by the Coalition Members in the National Assembly in July 2009, did not eliminate the inequality mentioned above. With the entry into force of ZOFVI in 1996, the prescribed education for professional workers in kindergartens and schools was generally increased. This was based on the expectation that such education would certainly improve the quality of the educational process, since it in itself represents a higher competence of the educational process providers. The most extensive shift has been brought about by the new legislation in the area of pre-school education and primary education, and partly in the field of secondary vocational education. The new school legislation has found a significant part of the professional workers who did not comply with the conditions under the new law, especially after the level of education, but have met all the conditions until the law was implemented. In its previous provisions, the ZOFVI protected these workers by continuing to work in education and education, although they did not meet the conditions for education but met all the other conditions. In practice, however, this safeguard standard has been applied but has been linked to an uninterrupted working relationship. If a worker with one employer had broken the working relationship and wished to conclude it with another, in individual cases he had doubts whether such worker could still carry out educational work under the same conditions or whether the protection standard did not actually apply to him. Although an attempt was made in Article 42 to provide protection for the whole area of education and education in 2008, this has not been made in practice. This year's amendment to the ZOFVI has established that a three-month or shorter interruption does not constitute an interruption of uninterrupted work in the field of education and education. Colleagues and colleagues, now I'm asking you. For 30 years, someone completed his education every three months, but at this point he lost his job for three months and one day, and today you find here with the secretary of state that he simply no longer meets the conditions for working in school. Such conditions have not yet been seen by this world, let alone by the state or Europe. We've considered everything, we've looked into it, and something like this just hasn't happened before. In the event of a longer break than 90 days 1 day, it may still be understood that this is one year, after one year of interruption, it does not meet the conditions if in the meantime it does not additional education. But 90 days is completely unacceptable to me. In the event of a longer break than 90 days, these teachers lose the opportunity to work in education and education and are also no longer treated equally in determining permanent surpluses. We are convinced that teachers with higher education with these changes must be restored to human and professional dignity. That's the least you need to do. If there are any mistakes in marriage, let us accept the first reading, go to the second reading, and be able to amend it. There can be no 762 signatures simply rejected, sent to the Minister. These people are in danger. It is not true that it is those who have already left the educational species, but it is those who can do so. And a specific question, colleagues and colleagues. Not a single invitation to tender [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This year there were no conditions for teachers and teachers to apply with VI. a rate not exceeding 90 days apart. [[...]] That's the bare truth. In the Slovenian People's Party we will vote against the decision and we will correct this law after the next elections when we win.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Miran Györek shall have the floor on behalf of the delegation of the Slovenian National Party Group. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following the coordination of the positions of the members of the Slovenian National Party's Group, we have managed to bring various views on the proposed amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education to the common denominator and to form a position of the SNS party on this bill. No matter how many principals and educators this proposal concerns, I personally do not think that it is a question of 5,000 teachers, as should be provided by the informal data of SVIZ or Mr Pukšić. In the Slovenian National Party, we represent the view that in any case it is necessary to protect workers in education and education, as well as if it were only one worker, for example. In this way, with the support of the bill, we will follow this objective or moral principle and give our support to the proposer and in this way try to prevent violations of rights due to unclear or inconsistent legal provisions. We also understand the explanations and the fear of some that such a proposal for amendments should amend existing legislation to a greater extent, so that the new regime will inadvertently work on additional adequate education of professional workers in education and education and so on. However, when we place on the scale a violation of the rights of workers on the one hand and of the above-mentioned explanations and expected problems, we are in the Slovenian National Party, in any event on the part of workers, including administrators, and other employees in education and education, so we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the existing law and we will vote against the decision of our home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Travel to the Group of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much again, Mr President. All due respect! When we adopted the proposal for amendments to the Law on Financing and Organising Education and Education in July, I mentioned that knowledge is at the heart of all policies of the Social Democrats. From this point of view, that knowledge and education are of paramount importance, please also understand the position of the Group of Social Democrats, which I will tell you. When the Education and Education Financing Act of 1996 provided for higher education, it is said that the seventh level of education for professional workers has been worked in the school system by those who had completed their education, namely five-year secondary education, higher education and those who have already had higher education. From 1985 or 1987 onwards, higher education was also possible in the education system at the level of the teachers and teachers in question and later of the teachers. This means that 10 years was the time within which they started their education at the appropriate seventh stage. The additional time has been allocated to those, and several times it has been said how the Education and Education Financing Act 1996 protected those who, at the time of the entry into force of this Act, had an adequate education by that time and, under the new law, such an education with a seventh degree. It is therefore not true that education is being abolished or eradicated, since all those who, under the Education and Education and Education Financing Act 1996 have been taught or otherwise trained in the school system have maintained a working relationship with all rights, with all the possibilities of progress as has been explained several times today. The second question is how they followed all the different forms of additional education that all teachers and teachers have to carry out with the seventh level of education. He's really trying to settle two issues for the MPs. This is a question of teachers with a sixth level of education and a question of administrators with an appropriate seventh level of education, but it is not this educational direction, but this second issue is solved by an adopted amendment. In our opinion, too, the teacher issue is adequately resolved with the sixth level of education. On the day of teachers, the Statistical Office published information that about 30,000 teachers are employed at different levels of education in Slovenia. In primary school there are 97.6% of women. Women’s participation in the higher education programme falls to 35, which was also one of the reasons why women did not receive adequate education. Specific statistics on how individuals have been trained should be examined. But when we weigh the equality of entry into work, then let me also say that 97% of those with the sixth level of education are employees for an indefinite period of time. In doing so, let me say that around 80% of all new jobs are in education and education for a certain period of time. Which ones, then, are better protected when we weigh? Are those who have an appropriate degree of university education entering the labour market and have gained the latest knowledge in education, or are they better protected and right to be protected, those who have acquired work experience in addition to education? It is only right that we weigh and present real arguments. The Group of Social Democrats will support the decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a DECISION ON AGREEMENT TO AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF FUNDING RULES FOR THE FINANCING OF SPORT ORGANISATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. Changes and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia have been submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments and additions to the rules were considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother and drafted a proposal for a decision on consent. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Travel for further presentation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 11th session, on 6 October 2009, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth addressed the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia under Article 11 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 23 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly. A representative of the proposer, Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia Drago Balent and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. The legislative and legal service, in its opinion, had no further comments on this act with effect from 21 September 2009. The Committee also received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 2 October 2009, which gave a positive opinion on that act. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Drago Balent pointed out in the introductory explanation that these are changes that are in line with the Law on Property Transformation of Lottery Slovenia. The rules were previously in line with the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Education and Sport, and confirmed by the Foundation Council on 3.9.2009. The amendments and additions to the rules relate to the decision of the Foundation on the financial plan, the final account and the Rules on the terms, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Foundation by a two-thirds majority and the establishment of the professional function of the Director of the Foundation. In calculating the level of meetings, the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding meetings and reimbursements of costs in public funds, public agencies, public institutions and public economic institutions were taken into account. The status of the Complaints Commission is also being regulated and the consent to appoint and dispose of the Director is being agreed upon in order to improve the operationality of the new Yes Government and not more of the National Assembly. Following the conclusion of the applicant's opening explanation, the Committee adopted, without debate, 10 votes in favour and no objection, a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to amend and supplement the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 8. 9. 2009 The proposal is an integral part of the report and I recommend it for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Here you are, Mrs. Alenka Kovšta, State Secretary, Ministry of Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, chairman. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia shall be 8. 9. 2009 She forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia amendments and additions to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In these amendments and additions to the rules, the Foundation has taken into account the Government’s comment on the correct definition of the Commission’s complaints as the body of the Foundation, and the Government therefore agrees with the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Foundation’s Rules. The government has also prepared a new decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, whereby the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia has aligned itself with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia, but it has found that it is necessary to amend the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia in order to bring the legal acts of the Foundation into line with the actual situation. The law states that the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute for Sport, is one of the applicants of members of the Foundation in the world of the Foundation, with the Public Institute for Sport, the Institute for Sport currently in the process of forcible liquidation. Both legal acts, both the amendment of the law on the property transformation of Lottery Slovenia and the amendment of the decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, will be forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The first text of the amendments and additions which arrived at the National Assembly was replaced by the content which was produced in cooperation with representatives of the Foundation, the competent ministry and the legislative service. According to the Foundation's representative, a positive opinion on the amendments was also given by the Slovenian Sports Council of Experts. The changes are the result of compliance with the Property Change Act of Slovenia and relate to the decision of the Foundation on the financial plan, the final account and the Rules on the terms and criteria and procedures for the distribution of funds by a two-thirds majority. The amendments introduce the professional function of the Director of the Foundation, the addition also refers to meetings, participation in Council meetings, which take account of the provisions of the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the status of the Commission with regard to complaints that do not fall within the professional commission and is an independent body of the Foundation. Consent to the appointment and discharge of the Director shall be given by the Government and no longer by the National Assembly, which shall result in greater operationality. While we really want the financing of sports organisations to bring greater transparency and efficiency in particular, because it is a sport that not only means half the health in the transferred sense, we will really support the decision in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u93	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear Members! In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision of the parent working body that the National Assembly will agree to amend and supplement the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. These are changes that are in accordance with the Property Conversion Act of the Lottery of Slovenia. The rules were previously harmonised with the Legislative and Legal Service, with the Ministry of Education and Sport, and were also endorsed by the Foundation Council on 3 September 2009. The amendments and additions to the rules relate to the decision-making of the Foundation in the financial plan, the final account and the Rules on the terms, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Foundation by a two-thirds majority and also to the establishment of the professional function of the Director of the Foundation. The method of calculating the level of meetings shall take into account the provisions of the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning meetings and reimbursement of costs in public funds, public agencies, public institutions and public economic institutions. The status of the Complaints Commission is also being regulated and the consent to appoint and dispose of the Director is being agreed upon in order to improve the operationality of the new Yes Government and not more of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u95	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia under Article 11 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, the Foundation rules take into account the provisions of the amendment of the law and take due account of the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on how to pay meetings and reimbursements of costs in public funds, public agencies, public institutions and public economic institutions. The status of the Complaints Commission is also being regulated and the position of Director of the Foundation is being introduced. We have some concerns in the Slovenian People's Party's Group regarding Article 4 of the amendments and the addition of the Rules amending Article 20 of the Rules and amending it provides that it gives its consent to the appointment and discharge of the Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and no longer the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which may result in political candidature. In any event, rules should be adopted in the interests of an effective part of the Foundation. Despite our concerns, we will support changes and additions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u97	Your Honor! It took a long time, and the government was very embarrassed to give a positive opinion on these changes. It is more than obvious that there is a great deal of dust in relation to this foundation, at different times and even in the last period. Questions are always asked about how and how funds are shared, whether these funds are distributed correctly or not; we have recently read certain things. I think it's about four years since we discussed in this room how not to let the director be a professional, we now allow him. We also discussed whether it should be confirmed by the Government or whether it was agreed by the National Assembly; we are now changing this. Okay, well, times are changing, but there are even more doubts about what happens in public. As I say, at least those who follow the field of sport and developments in this regard, we know this very well. I do not know why it is necessary to define a single repetition and only two mandates if it is in management everywhere and elsewhere, depending on how successful you are, so many mandates you can be the director, because it is a management function and not one that is supposed to be defined as a functionary. But that's the way it is. It is time for some things to be settled in this area as well. Some changes have also occurred in the organisational sense when it comes to carrying out activities, both education, information technology and other things in the field of sport. I am talking about the status changes of some institutions, the abolition of two and the establishment of a third or one new one that is supposed to perform all those tasks that the previous institutions have. I suppose it's also legal, because that's what you both call it, right now. According to the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery, it is indisputably clear, namely, whose representatives, organisations, institutions and others participate in the foundation's world. No matter how much it is said that this will also contribute, which is not only due to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, but also to other circumstances, if this contributes to making the operation more transparent, that the funds will truly be earmarked and allocated to those who will best meet the conditions that will be confirmed in both national and local contexts by the highest possible degree of consensus, without the question of whether there will be too much for Planica, too little for the Maribor Pohorje, too much for a gym in Hrastnik or anywhere else too little. These are things that we always have ahead of us and we always discuss them not to talk about the various advisory services and the various activities they carry out, individuals or those organised in any organisation. We will support this position of the parent working body because it makes no sense that the National Assembly does not give consent because, after all, it only has a role to play in giving consent or not. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] not to supplement, to amend this act. In our view, it would be wrong if things were to improve, that some things were to be regulated more transparently, that we would ultimately exercise the responsibility of the Director and those who would manage this foundation in a more clear way, then of course this should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u99	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have closely monitored the procedure for adopting amendments to the Foundation's rules. The Foundation, which distributes more than €10 million annually through the call for sport organisations, is a key supporter of top sports in our country. Therefore, in January, when the first proposal was before us, it was not possible to adopt a text that had a number of substantive and formal shortcomings. Today we have a new proposal, which has also been unanimously supported by members and members of the home labour force. The proposaler, the Sports Foundation, has eliminated some disagreements with regard to sectoral legislation, in accordance with the powers he also has. The news presented by the amendment is based on the Property Change Act and therefore the proposal does not extend either rights or obligations. The content of the rules shall only be in accordance with the applicable legislation adopted in the previous mandate. The Law on Property Change introduced the following important novelties in 2007. Firstly, the professional performance of the Director's functions, and secondly, the decision of the Foundation on the financial account, the final account and the rules on the terms, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of foundations with a two-thirds majority, instead of a certain majority of all members so far. In addition, the proposal for amendments also adequately includes a complaint committee, which, given that the Foundation co-finances more than 600 programmes annually, is urgently needed by the body. It is a symbol that the rules are adopted only a few days after the Foundation issued a regular annual invitation to tender on Friday, which will allocate 13.5 million euros to sports organisations in 2010, which is 33% more than this year. Therefore, we are pleased that there is also a bright light for Slovenia's top sport at the time of the economic crisis in the operation of sport. We have been so proud of him lately, so it is appropriate to offer him adequate financial support in addition to the fine words. Together with the 2010 budget of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is increased by 10% on the sports line in 2008 and 40% on the basis of the realisation achieved, we can look optimisticly into the sports future. Therefore, accept these rules as our common, modest contribution on this path today. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the decision by which the National Assembly agrees to amend and supplement the Foundation's rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Petan, I'm sorry. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I hope you haven't kicked us out of Parliament yet. I accept your apology. The basis for amending the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport was the 2007 amendment of the Law on Lottery of Slovenia. Let me begin by saying that we will not oppose the adoption of these rules in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it is an interesting history. For the first time, we met this topic on 15 January 2009, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we had concerns about the content, two points on the Director's required education and the level of meetings. I can say that this meeting was also interesting on 15 January 2009 on the Committee, because the members of the Committee did not receive information that the Government was opposed to this content, which was then presented. And this also proved to be true at the next plenary meeting of the National Assembly, where the Minister for Education and Sport made it clear that the Government does not support such content. In view of the fact that it took quite some time for us to now, in essence after ten months, to meet the amended content, which is intended to regulate in more detail the status of the Commission for complaints, and in particular to introduce the professional function of the Director of the Foundation, which implies that the Director of the Foundation is no longer entitled to pay the meetings for participation in regular and extraordinary meetings of the Foundation Council. The content of education is also largely Solomonic. I and the Group of Members hope that there will be no different interpretations. Above all, we hope in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there will be no different interpretation or innovation in relation to meetings and awards. If the Government agrees that meetings and awards are managed in a uniform manner, as is the case with the regulation on meetings, reimbursements in public funds, public agencies, public institutions and public economic services, then this is logic. But it's up to the government to decide the height. What I would like to point out on behalf of the SDS Group is that Article 9 of the Regulation states that the Director is not entitled to pay the meetings, Article 8 and the Government's meeting regulations say that the President of the meeting authority is entitled to a meeting of 130%. Let us hope that people will not misinterpret themselves and that it will follow the hierarchy of documents, because it would be very irresponsible to play these rules and talk more about administrative matters, meetings rather than content itself. This is a significant resource that the Foundation manages and plays an important role in financing Slovenian sports organisations, especially for infrastructure and sport itself. This is why we draw attention to these two articles, Article 9 of the Rules and Article 8 of the Regulation on meetings and reimbursements in order to avoid misinterpretation and perhaps exploiting the inadequacies that may arise or at least in Slovenia we are masters for the conversion of certain things. It is strange, however, that the matter has been rolling for ten months by such or other authorities before we could resolve it and that the Government has also agreed to this content. Above all, it is incomprehensible that in the first reading, the real January government objected, but the content obtained the majority of the votes in the parent's working body. And what's even more embarrassing is that the members of the committee didn't get complete information on what the government thought of the content presented. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the adoption of these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We are really done with the presentation of the views of the groups. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement on amendments and additions, the Rules will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the votes, expected to be half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complements of the Higher Education Act, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Gregor Golobic, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u103	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of a decision of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education for Third Review and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration. The text included an amendment to Article 15 adopted in the second reading procedure of the National Assembly and proposes that Parliament adopt a law in the third reading. During this time, a new amendment was tabled in the National Assembly to Article 15 by Members and Members of several groups of Members. The government does not oppose this amendment. This amendment does not increase the number of members of the Agency's Council, as well as maintain a balance or relationship between different groups or between academic and non-academic participation in the Higher Education Council. It is too important to reiterate that this law is important to establish a new quality agency in higher education, which falls within one of the obligations that Slovenia has undertaken when it joined the Bologna reform. We are late here, we want the Agency to take full responsibility as soon as possible - the existing and new powers imposed by the law on accreditation and evaluation of higher education programmes and institutions. With the new year, we want the work to begin full or the work to begin. The adoption of the law in the third reading at the October session makes it possible, according to the complications, given the reality of the problems facing the current Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, an important task and we will be pleased to see more consistent, more precise and more effective quality assurance in higher education with other European countries or institutions similar to the other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Does Mr Matjaž Zanoškar wish to do so on behalf of the DeSUS Group? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav? On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Freedom of research, teaching and design is a fundamental principle of university life and governments and universities, each within their respective competences, must ensure respect for this fundamental requirement. Academic freedom must be accessible to the university itself and to individuals, in particular teachers, researchers and students who make up this institution. This is exactly what Dr. Danilo Türk, President of the Republic of Slovenia, said at the 20th anniversary of Magna Charta University of Bologna. And what about academic freedom in the Republic of Slovenia? There is always talk of mobility of students and university professors, but as if only cross-border mobility were allowed. God does not allow us to speak or even support the mobility of university professors or lecturers within our own country. Does that really not go with Slovenian character? Well, of course this is not in line with the wishes of the coalition for the centralisation of the state and universities. In our view, the Institute of Academic Freedom is the key element of every academic community that guarantees each member the right to research, to publish results and to adopt views orally and in writing. Of course, within the framework of the rule of law of the country and independently of its academic elders and the departmental ministry. This institution is the foundation of a democratic and plural society that allows opinions and opinions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that in every legislation governing higher education and research, a very clear emphasis should be placed on the institution of academic freedom, which must be the basis for all systemic solutions. This is not so much in the interests of the members of the academic community, but primarily in the interest of all the democratic public. And, of course, we miss this in this bill. Since every freedom is also linked to responsibility, this bill should also provide for this aspect. Balancing freedom and responsibility is a model on which successful academic institutions are based in the traditional democratic part of Europe, America and Australia. The bill also does not provide any solutions for the catastrophic sub-funding of Slovenian higher education. We can expect its financial collapse, and the situation has worsened the introduction of Bologna programmes. The seriousness of the situation stems from a comparison of the expenditure of the Republic of Slovenia's budget and the expenditure of other countries. For example, we receive €3,200 in Slovenia, €15 000 in Austria and $30,000 in the United States of America per year for a student of engineering. At elite universities, it's also between $75,000 and $200,000. We believe that the Ministry should urgently prepare a programme for the financial rehabilitation of higher education. The SLS Group also notes that there are no changes foreseen regarding enrolment based on the spatial and personal capacity of individual colleges. This orientation is not in line with the current and anticipated future employment needs of the Slovenian economy. The gap between the entry requirements and the employment needs of the economy is increasing, leading to social and economic problems as well. We therefore believe that it is high time for reforms in the public part of the academic sphere. However, reforms should be based on a democratic society whose economy is based on a private initiative and on the principle of academic freedom and the definition of the mission of Slovenian universities. Since this proposal does not provide essential solutions because it is conceptually flawed and because we would expect much more from the system law, we cannot support it in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General! The balance of freedom of the academic sphere, as the predecessor has already said, is urgent, and I do not know if this law will ensure this matter. For the law on higher education provides basically, without this amendment, which we have here today, worse working conditions than they have been so far, as the union also points out. In fact, the union or unions have sent an open letter to all parliamentary groups and in this letter they call for Article 15 to be amended. This amendment was fully summarised by the SD Group of Members. And if we are talking about putting an end to this injustice by giving the union the opportunity to participate within the Council of the Agency, then in some way this injustice, which was still in the previous reading, has been abolished. However, I would also like to draw attention to other facts that the Government does not want to see on purpose. I come alone from Primorska. Funding or rather avoiding funding, including legal obligations arising from adopted laws, is more than evident. The ever-increasing problems in this regard are on the agenda and universities point out that they cannot act in this way. If there are no administrative and technical conditions for work, if there are no adequate finances, of course it is difficult to talk about management, then this should be the Agency's Council, as we had previously organised management, is irrelevant if we do not have normal working conditions. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that he has already taken up European comparability and regulation of the matter with European standards in order to ensure that it is also in the European way of financing. I do not want us to adopt laws in the National Assembly that allow some universities to be indebted, and for this we issue State guarantees and others do not. That's unacceptable. This has been the case in the previous term. And when we passed such a law to allow the University of the Sea to be in debt with State guarantees, this could not have happened because the state did not issue these guarantees, even though the law did exist. Accepting and saying nicely how the Council of the Agency as the highest decision-making body will solve everything is, of course, blinding. I wouldn't want him to stay with those words. As has already been said, we will support the amendment and hope that the Minister will also provide the necessary financial resources in an equal manner to all universities in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that this is a very important law that aligns the quality assurance system of higher education with European standards, guidelines and recommendations. This is also the basic purpose of the law, as it is necessary to improve the quality of Slovenian higher education in order to successfully integrate into European higher education. In recent years, the number of higher education institutions and study programmes has increased significantly and the differences are high in quality. There has also been an increase in the distrust of higher education stakeholders in the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, which is intended to provide an independent assessment of the quality of higher education institutions and study programmes. Higher education partners have also repeatedly highlighted disagreements with the creation and functioning of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, so in our opinion we need a body that will take care of external quality assurance and will certainly have to be credible both in the public and among stakeholders as credible. Quality assurance is also one of the most important and visible areas of the Bologna process, and it will create a European higher education space that will not only become more attractive, but will also increase student and staff mobility and cooperation with foreign higher education institutions. The current regulation of this area in our Higher Education Act does not allow for action consistent with European standards and guidelines, which is an important problem in adapting the Slovenian Higher Education System to the recommendations of the European Union. It also does not allow for the inclusion in the European Register of Trusts of Deplorable Agencies, thereby risking a standstill in the international recognition of our higher education. The proposed law makes all this possible and ensures the proper enforcement of the interests of all partners, while taking into account the necessary principles of action, it is said that the involvement of all higher education partners, the involvement of academic and non-academic representatives, also covers the appropriate balance, independence and expertise of the members of the Agency's Council, which are not linked in their work to any guidance from the institutions that have appointed or proposed them. This is why we will support the bill. Of course, as has already been said, including the 51-hour amendment. the article that we have tabled together with the Social Democrats' Group of Members, DeSUS and Zares and this Article regulates not only the composition but also the powers and tasks of the Agency's Council. The LDS Group will be happy to support the amendment and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. In our vision, Slovenia is a knowledge-based economy, and this knowledge should be a source of higher competitiveness and high added value to the Slovenian economy. This is the way we want to give our people a better and fair pay for the work done, the prosperity and perspective of the whole community. We support the new law on higher education all the time and in the new national agency for accreditation of quality of higher education we see the key element to ensure scientific and research excellence, competent knowledge and greater satisfaction with the Slovenian system of higher education, including freedom and independent nature of higher education. The latter may be one of the key gains in terms of the current system when, through the independent character of the national agency, we ensure the independent first accreditation of study programmes and their continued impartial evaluation. We are well aware that there is still much work to be done in this area if we are to implement our strategic orientations, including greater budgetary support for the area of higher education and science, which we are also able to implement in the proposed budget for 2010 and 2011. Let us remind the Social Democrats that, in previous discussions, we have advocated greater involvement of both students and representatives of representative high education unions in the world of the national agency, as it is also necessary to strengthen the partnership nature in this area and to achieve the best possible results in the cooperation of all stakeholders. That is why we also today accept and support the compromise amendment that we have tabled together with other coalition parties to include in the Council of National Agencies the representative trade unions in the field of higher education. For ten years, Slovenian students, as well as the professional public, have been identified as one of the key elements for the implementation of Bologna reform, as well as other strategic objectives of Slovenia. Today, by concluding the third examination of the Higher Education Act, we will do a good job on this path. Social Democrats will also support the amendment of the Higher Education Act in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u113	All due respect! Minister, the president and the others! This is the third time we've talked about the amendment of the Higher Education Act. Despite the fact that no comments have been made by our Group of Members, I will, with the appropriate Sisyphus reeds, throw this stone at the top of the hill to go down again. Let's repeat some of the facts to refresh our memory. What is the point of this marriage? Accreditation, evaluation and habilitation have been withdrawn from the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education and given to the new national quality agency of the Republic of Slovenia. It's all good and good up here. However, the reasons for the adoption of the law, on the one hand, state that the current rules of the Higher Education Council are inconsistent with European standards. On the other hand, despite its reference to alleged European practices, it lists only four European countries: Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Austria. And what is a bit embarrassing is that these cases are much more similar to the current regulation of the higher education world, because the membership of the management is also called the government, not directly higher education partners, but to the agency's proposed regulation. In part, the Ministry can find a similar thing, as proposed, between those countries perhaps only in Germany, where part of the members are actually appointed by the Rector's Conference, but there is also a clear difference. In Germany, this conference is a major body, because they have many universities. With us, it's just a group of four people who are trying hard to make sure there's no other university in their circle. Let's freshen this up, too. It is claimed that the new agency's world should be more professional. There's no guarantee for that. The method of appointment allows higher education teachers and researchers to be even minority. No specific qualification shall be required for a number of Council members. The idea itself is contradictory. On the one hand, the justification states that they are experts and, on the other hand, they are representatives of higher education partners. There is no guarantee that it is compatible with each other. Let's finally freshen this up. The proposed law also provides for a decision by which the independent higher education institutions would award their own habilitation titles on their own by means of a new one. To date, they needed the consent of the Higher Education Council, which has rejected a number of applications for non-compliance with the criteria and thus protected the relevant standards. Perhaps the minister will reply that the Agency also controls this through evaluation procedures, but what would that mean in practice? Most titles last five years. Regular evaluations shall normally take place every seven years. This will allow someone in a higher education institution to teach for several years or even an entire mandate, and then the agency will discover that they have received a name contrary to the criteria. Then she'll cancel his name again? What will this mean for the students he taught during these years when it turns out that they were taught in the back by someone who was not supposed to by law and criteria, and that subject will be abolished? Or it will be taken into account that a specific person should not even implement it. Any solution will be poor and again we have no adequate protection. And last time, the amendment. This is the third one on this subject. The first is, if memory does not deceive me, signed by honourable Member Melita Župevc and was also voted on by our votes on the Committee on Higher Education. At the second plenary session, where this issue was addressed, the Minister's proposal drew a line and the deletion was voted on. At today's third reading, his clone comes to the table and, of course, there will be a vote. Dear Minister and honourable motions of the amendment, which once you vote in favour, secondly against, now you will be something third or you will be in favour again. We'll have to make a decision. And if we put this in the context of some 30 amendments and the strong efforts of the law enforcement service to put the bill in order at all, I can say that the Ministry has written its roof law slightly less carefully than it would have been appropriate for this issue. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we will wait for this law, which receives permanent amendments, to finally become such that it will no longer receive them, and then we will have little vote for it. At the moment, we will vote against both, against the re-amendment and against the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. President-in-Office, Minister-in-Office, Honourable Fellow, Honourable Fellow! It is clear to all of us that the higher educational level of the population leads to a higher level of development in society at all, which is also reflected in positive economic indicators. This link between education and active participation and economic growth is clear and clear, so we all share the belief that investing in education is a meaningful and significant investment. With the introduction of real reforms, we can make it possible to have such a successful and sustainable future in which there will be challenges in the economy, globalisation and rapid change. In the Lisbon Strategy, we committed ourselves to improving education and training and greater investment in education and research so that, of course, more people can take advantage of their potential, which will be good for them and for society as a whole. Such investments will make society more competitive, more attractive. These investments are, in particular, public. And if we invest a large part of public funds in higher education, we need to make sure that these funds are well used. We can't afford the funding of bad institutions and somehow study programs, that's probably clear. This would not lead to development, but to the capping of others, although even in our Group we really want to invest an even greater share of gross social product in science when that is possible and if that is possible. In some areas, we have also made progress in comparison with other countries of the European Union, and in many ways we are lagging behind the other countries in the Bologna Declaration, although of course we all share the belief that quality is the basis and priority that priority must be given to higher education under some minimum standards developing and improving. In the Zares-New Policy Group, we are convinced that this amendment of the law has been responding to the expectations and demands of both higher education partners and other stakeholders for a long time. The dissatisfaction with the current regulation and the new favour was evident throughout the process of adopting this law. The basic objective in drafting the law was simple, this is a quality higher education. In this context, we cannot go beyond its international comparability and dimension, as these policies, which are complementary to Europeans, allow Slovenian higher education and research institutions international credibility. We are just one of the 29 countries that we signed in early 1999 the Bologna Declaration, which is one of the most obvious objectives of this process, which aims at education, research and technology at a higher level. All of this is reflected in the adopted European standards and criteria, as well as in last year 2008 the European Register of the EQUAR Agency, which is now 9 national agencies. All of this was supported and recommended by the European Parliament in its 1998 and 2006 reports. The Slovenian national agencies are not there yet, because we do not have it, but what we do have is not, of course, complementary to the standards that are in force in the developed Europe. The current body for the external quality assurance system is the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, which is still carrying out evaluation, accreditation, habilitation and advisory tasks, although it is necessary to say that it does not actually perform them. If I refresh my memory, I remember that there should be a meeting of the Higher Education Council on 25 September, which was inconclusive. And, of course, this is not the first one that was inconclusive, but the former one was inconclusive, and there was one that would have been found. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education has not been concluded in months, so we cannot say that it was doing its job well because it was not actually doing it at all. This proposal, which is ahead of us, the proposal to create an agency, is its upgrade, a necessary upgrade, as we have heard. For the preparation of the proposal, a professional council was set up this February, with the participation of all partners, higher education actors, rector conference, community of higher education, conference of independent higher education institutions, student organisation of Slovenia, representative unions in the field of higher education and representatives of employers. The President of the Higher Education Council and the President of the Senate for Accreditation and the Director of the Secretariat for Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia were also included. Following this new bill, the new Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education will provide room for discussion for all social partners and higher education actors, and will advise the Government on amending or drafting higher education legislation and other strategic documents. However, we are setting up a new national quality agency in higher education with a view to ensuring quality in higher education. It will be an independent and independent, direct non-governmental budget user, with three bodies and a professional service. This also increases confidence in the quality assurance system. The amendment to which we are witnessing includes the last participant, the representative of the High Education Union. I see nothing wrong with the fact that in the process of enacting the law, it has been determined which are really those stakeholders who are essential for the Agency to function. At present, its composition is comparable to that of European students, the number of higher education teachers, trade unionists, all involved. We really support the proposal for a bill in the Group. We see it as a consequence of all the above facts, especially because we want quality higher education. If we want it, we need a good agency, we need an effective quality assurance system. This quality assurance agency in higher education is, in our opinion, essential for the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens, so we will also support the proposal in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Damian Perme? [[No, no, ……]] Matjaž Zanoškar? [[No, no, ……]] Sylven Little Man? [[No, no, ……]] Guido Kres? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Maja Potter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, colleagues, as many of you as you are. Complements and amendments to the Higher Education Act are now being discussed in the third plenary session of the National Assembly. And just as I assured the general debate that I would support the proposed amendment, I also guarantee it in the third. In the previous term, the Higher Education Act has had quite a few problems when we talk about how partners who are responsible for quality higher education have accepted it. The constant emphasis that quality assurance in higher education requires an independent body, which will be European comparable and acceptable to the European Higher Education Area, has been one of the constants. And the body, this is the Higher Education Council, which acted instead of an independent independent agency, was not an appropriate response to what the higher education ministers promised at European conferences. If we are looking at the establishment of a national agency of the Republic of Slovenia for quality in higher education, then we should all support this fact. While I know that the Agency will also have some initial problems in providing high-level tasks and objectives, but as set out and defined by its tasks, it will in fact be able to carry out its work as independent and independent in accordance with the principles of professionalism, impartiality, legality and political neutrality. This, after all, provides it with a way of funding, because it will be a direct, non-governmental budgetary user. And it is not surprising that, in fact, the majority of the opinions were written about the composition of the Agency's council. This is the highest decision-making body and standards will be set through the world of agencies for what Slovenian higher education should be like in terms of accreditation, evaluation, habilitation, and, last but not least, the register of experts. It is therefore understandable that it was precisely this question of how the world should be appointed, how many members the world should have, that it was a bit overwhelming to say. My view of the world was influenced by some information. One of these was that the Board of Agencies should be an 11-member, including an agreement to be able to appoint representative unions in higher education according to their trust criteria. This opinion, which I received and was adopted in the professional world, has strengthened me to believe that the 11-member world is what the world should be. Later, discussions on the composition of the Council also allowed for an opportunity to increase the number of members of the Council. And when we thought about it from this point of view, we didn't exclude anyone from the list of those who could name their members, but we added one of the union representatives. And for me, it was an acceptable proposal. In view of the majority opinion of those preparing the legal text, the matter was then given a different form at the meeting of the National Assembly, and now, with the proposed amendments in the third reading, the Agency's 11-member council offers the opportunity to appoint a representative of three representative unions in higher education. And this is what I have advocated since the beginning, and therefore I will have no shame in supporting the amendment tabled in the third reading, and I will not have any shame in supporting the law in its entirety. Once again, I stress that it is essential for me to have the Council of the Agency decide on such very important tasks; I have listed 15 tasks. These tasks range from the appointment of the Director of the Agency, the Complaint Commission, by establishing procedures and criteria for external evaluation, for accreditation, for election to the names of higher education teachers, scientific workers and higher education staff, criteria for the inclusion of experts in the Register of Professionals for External Evaluation and Accreditation, accreditation of study programmes. However, I will not list all of this, just to mention the set of tasks that are committed to ensuring the quality and potential of cooperation with the European Higher Education Area. Given how much we are stressing quality in higher education, how we are aware of competitiveness, how some of us live in those parts of the country where the outflow of students to other countries is already quite noticeable, I hope from the national quality agency that it will actually be possible to guarantee such quality that we can happily be among the best higher education institutions - but by any scale they will already be classified, by whatever standards these higher education institutions will already be classified as quality scales, in addition to the Ljubljana University and Maribor University. That quality is essential, in particular, at the time of the decline or decline in the school population, and that some higher education institutions are already confronted with the issue of the completion of enrolment quotas, these matters are of crucial importance. Mr Minister, I would like the Higher Education Act to be able to provide at least most of the tasks this novel has set itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel? [[No, no, ……]] Silva Nigga? [[No, no, ……]] Willie Rezman? [[No, no, ……]] Matovž Frangež? [[No, no, ……]] Franz Puksich? [[No, no, ……]] Miran Györek? [[No, no, ……]] Franci Kek? [[No, no, ……]] Franz Bogovich? [[No, no, ……]] Melite Zupevec? [[No, no, ……]] Andrei Magajna? [[No, no, ……]] The flower of Zalokar Orzam? [[No, no, ……]] Mirko Brultz? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u119	Dear Mr. Secretary, Vice President, hello! The Agency for the Quality of Higher Education is extremely important, with the establishment of responsibility for quality higher education in our country. The debate today was also here in the style of the primary school paper and the obvious that we are changing the amendments, etc. I think that's why we have a third reading to adopt a law that will have its weight and will be of quality. So that I do not accept these perceptions that we are changing decisions, but, as my predecessor has already said, representative unions came and got their place in this agency because of these discussions. Investing in education is, of course, investing in the future and if this does not happen and if we do not take big steps here, then our perspective is such as the situation in Prekmurje now, where, for example, they have neglected the field of education and now this educational structure is catastrophic, because they have satisfied themselves with some brass workers and workers in the conviction that there is still some land at home and will survive. Investments in research are also an important factor in development and if higher education institutions are closer to the economy and work for the economy, then I see only in this solution that what we are doing in material production and elsewhere will have greater added value. Therefore, the quality of the study programmes is of paramount importance. We must not be satisfied with the students' statements that they are satisfied with their studies, because most of the time or many times a student takes a double examination and goes through the matter, already expresses some satisfaction. We will be pleased with the knowledge acquired by our students and students and all others who are educated if this knowledge they acquire can be usefully used and will be satisfied by the employer or will be obvious in the environment. If we see in Europe and normally compare ourselves with European higher education institutions, at least there in Goriška also across the border, these boundaries are open, the transition from the programme to the programme, from the university to the university, etc., is now possible, and therefore the knowledge they acquire, and will carry with them and then, I hope, bring it back to the country, must be of great quality. The interests of the country and the local community are of course quality programs, without major duplications, because we know that there are two million of us, this is one small town, and that not every one of you can have a university, but we can have study programmes that are not competitive with some other programs in other environments. Therefore, it is also very important to direct young people to the deficit professions, to education to cover the deficit professions. For the case that happened recently, when a large number of traineeships are required in one industry, it is said, social, that the country is required not to do so, for example, by mechanicals or electronics or by other natural sciences, to indicate the situation, as it is. Of course, I will gladly support this bill in order to ensure that these 11 members of the Agency successfully carry out the tasks for which they have been elected and to meet our expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend. [[No, no, ……]] Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Victory, Jelinczych. [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Pavel Gantar. [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Luke Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Mr. Golobic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. This third reading concludes the long process of adopting this law, first of all the drafting of the text. Early this year, February, all higher education partners were invited to participate in the expert committee that prepared conceptual solutions for this novel. In it, we have limited ourselves to the problem of establishing a Quality Agency and in some small part to non-problemised solutions in the area of regulation of more precise transnational education. The law was transmitted to the National Assembly in a regular procedure. Many comments, opinions, support and suggestions were made during the three meetings. Relatively large, certainly not an average large number, the amendments would like to be understood primarily as an awareness of this institution and those who, through this institution, also express legitimate ambitions to pay particular attention to the area of higher education, taking into account expectations that are not small and that concern the future of this country as much as possible. I am therefore pleased that after this third reading we will be able to conclude this important chapter. One of the stones in this mosaic of a comprehensive reorganisation of society, if it is to follow the objectives of a knowledge society, will be behind us, and many are yet to be done. At this point, I would like to thank all the participants in this debate, both pre-parliamentary and parliamentary, for their attention and for their engagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 19. Ten. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment to this Article tabled by SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? I'm giving you a chance to report. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Well, hello, Minister and Minister. Indeed, this amendment is, in fact, kind of like a dot on the i or one of the pebbles in the mosaic in a long time, and man would also say quite a substantive debate that has taken place since the summer until today. A reliable area of the Council, an agency as well as one that is most important and "determinant" in setting up and launching such a quality and important agency as is present. And it will probably also show in the coming months or years of this area, which it depends on, if it also sounds quite pathetic or poetic, the fate of the nation, the education of all Slovenians and Slovenes and all those who will study in Slovenia. I believe and hope that, just as we have found common energy and power, that we have somehow rounded up the number of members in this world, we will also find energy and power to open up other areas as important as this area of agency creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Since Mr Magajna has not applied before, I am opening another report for discussion. Here you go. Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the floor. It'll be the third time, Mr. Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u125	Apparently, some people have a habit of technique. I did not intend to report myself to this debate, because it seems pointless for me to discuss something that has been decided. However, I would like to comment on this misleading and misleading of the coalition Members on this amendment. We have also supported such a solution on the Higher Education Committee with the help of the Slovenian Democratic Party because such an amendment or such a solution has received support. We are also of the opinion that the city also has a representative union, because this does not mean that this representative will deal with those things that the union represents for its purpose, but that they will propose an expert who will also be able to contribute something to the better work of this body in this area. And, look at the fraction, at a meeting in the National Assembly, it was obvious that, on the basis of some back-up arrangements, perhaps even pressure, the coalition that then supported, tabled a different amendment and voted on it. We then opposed this amendment because we advocated the original solution that we voted on the committee. And now, once again, a miraculous turn of events, turning to the original state of things that seem to me to be self-involved. As far as marriage is concerned, I don't want to comment or discuss much. It's a step back. What is said here will contribute to competitiveness, better quality of higher education - is not true! It'll close high school, they'll want to have the primate of an existing university here again. That sooner than later, it will be clear to all of us. I hope that this law will not have the opportunity to take that step back that has been done in recent years with great pain, particularly in the decentralisation of higher education, competitiveness and, of course, greater accessibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you. It's been a little technical, but sometimes it's good that I can replicate some of the prefaces. With all these complications surrounding the agency's composition, we have actually reached the starting point, despite the fact that we have now added a representative of the representative union, there has finally been some synthesis. In view of what the Ministry has repeatedly stressed, it is the authorities and the agency which will make competent and qualified decisions. And all of these environments that propose members of the agency are not actually a delegation environment that can influence these people, because these people will be experts and autonomous. Their autonomy means that they are independent of instructions, and this is also crucial in determining the number. However, in the case of numbers, operationality is a key criterion. Operationality for this expansion and enlargement does not mean an increase in quality and better work. In fact, increasing the number of members of the Agency would only lead to the fact that this body would become inoperable, inoperable and difficult to carry out its work. What I have already stressed, the autonomy of these people will in fact ensure some of the independence and independence in these environments that they have proposed. In particular, trade unions can also propose a person from the academic sphere or vice versa, the academic sphere of someone who is not employed there or directly bound. And I support this amendment, no matter what I said, only the number was not a key, key criteria for the future quality of this part of the body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 14. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on mandatory implementation of publications. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to Mrs. Majdi Shirca, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u129	Good-bye! Since we are this year, in the year of the so-called reminder of Napoleon and the Illyrian province, it is 200 years this year, when we present the amendments to the Compulsory copy of the Publications Act, I remind you that the mandatory copy was introduced by Napoleon's soldiers, literally. And during the French occupation of our territory, the principle of a mandatory copy was also established among many positive standards. This principle has been in force for several years, and until 2006, it has been very, very, very forgiving of the term, arbitraryly expressed in our legislation, which means that printers had to broadcast a large number of mandatory copies to libraries or depository units. Of course, time also brings changes and economic societies, which then became and were the successor of once-state printers and publishers, this was understood as a restriction on the flow and, in fact, the country recognized that a large number of mandatory copies to be put into storage by an old publisher or printer are too much of a burden. Therefore, in 2006 there was an amendment to the law restricting the mandatory transfer to depository units, according to which in 10 central libraries, Slovenian libraries, four to NUK or two to the Tržaška or Celovská bookstore, were restricted in a different way. But that's not the subject of this law. So much for the introduction of amendments to the Compulsory copy of Publications Act, which brings some improvements to the existing law, some very nominal, and some that provide an answer to the Chamber of Commerce or to publishers who were not satisfied with the obligation imposed by the State to engage in dialogue with the Ministry of Culture in order to exempt the obligation to issue fine print from the law and to introduce a single number of mandatory copies for all publications and to exempt all publications, including publicly funded publications, from the price database, that is to say that they would no longer have printed prices, loads and colophon. In preparing the amendments, the Ministry of Culture argued that all the proposals were not meaningful, even those on the price and burden of the collapse of the collophon, but that there was a need to find consensus on the changes to the so-called small print. Therefore, this subject is an exception to the regulation of small print to depository units and means that we have a change, that we retain the general obligation to broadcast small print and that we introduce a single number of four copies, including for small print, since it is stipulated that a smaller number of small print presses should be submitted even in cases where public funding of publications is involved. In fact, we have shown our interlocutors and all the others that by means of small print we understand many diverse publications that are very important for the culture and history of the individual nation. Their value grows over time and that publishers document their activities with fine print, which is of great importance for Slovenian culture. And this material is very important, it is said that it would be inappropriate to set it apart from the law and give it exemption and to the publishers, but not to the printers after the new ones, to grant exemption for the issue of compulsory copies. We are also addressing some other shortcomings in the law, particularly those that remove administrative obstacles. More precisely, we define what is the subject of a mandatory copy, eliminate tolars, introduce euro and also [[...]] [[End warning sign]] What is small print? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 11th session, on 6 October 2009, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Compulsory copy of Publications Act, following a decision of the 36th meeting of the College on 11 September 2009, following a reduced procedure, and therefore it was examined under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, made comments to Article 6. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. It expressed the view that in the new small number of mandatory copies, an important source of complementarities for library materials in other regional home libraries would be depleted. It supported the proposed supplement, however, that the method of collecting mandatory copies of publications so far should be reduced to the minimum possible number and the proposed reduction of additional costs in minimum cost publications. The oral opinion was presented by Councillor Anton Peršak. Within the prescribed time limit, the amendments were tabled by four coalition parties to Articles 1 and 4 and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on individual articles and amendments tabled. Representatives of the candidates, on their behalf Minister Majda Širca Ravnikar, Vojko Stopar and Tatjana Likar, representative of the Law and Legal Service of Marta Briška and the already mentioned representative of the Council of State, participated in the work of the Committee. Minister Majda Širca Ravnikar introductoryly provided a supplementary explanation and explained how to collect a mandatory copy of small press, internal publications, publications in lower loads and larger posters and proposed for them, as is the case with the law that the administrative obstacle found to the economy or other factors in society has been reduced to the least possible extent while maintaining the integrity of information on the important part of Slovenian cultural heritage. In an additional presentation, the Legislative and Legal Service also presented its comments to Article 6 and the proposed concerns were lifted by amendments. In the context of the discussion of the individual articles, the members and members of the Committee paid the most attention to facsimile. They considered that facsimile should be the subject of a compulsory copy, regardless of the number of copies issued, in view of its importance for the Slovenian written heritage. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, and 10 of the Act. He then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill following the conclusion of the discussion in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Compulsory copy of Publications be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you. Dear Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament. When we talk about removing administrative barriers, we are always prepared to support proposals in the Slovenian People's Party, which also remove these administrative obstacles. The amendments to the law were initiated by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In particular, it is necessary to amend and supplement the provisions on a mandatory copy relating to small print, on internal publications, on publications in lower loads, on larger posters, etc., which are also the National and University Library and also the Maribor Library as one of the recipients of these four mandatory copies to keep, bibliographically process and put into use. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Compulsory copy of the publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Compulsory copy of Publications Act in the Slovenian National Party. The preparation of amendments and additions to the Compulsory copy of Publications Act was made in accordance with the 2007 Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 14, which ordered the Ministry of Culture to draw up a law in accordance with the 2008 programme to remove administrative barriers that would reduce additional costs, simplify the operation and, in some ways, become European comparable. The main solution to the proposed amendment and the addition of the Compulsory copy of Publications Act is that the current method of collecting a mandatory copy, small print press, internal publications, publications in lower loads and large posters is to be regulated by reducing the administrative obstacle to the economy and other factors in society to the minimum extent possible. At the same time, the integrity of information on the important part of Slovenian cultural heritage is maintained, and we therefore agree in the Slovenian National Party that the proposer has proposed a good bill and we support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Mr President. Well, hello, Madam Secretary. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the upcoming amendment to the Compulsory copy of the Publications Act, which was adopted in 2007. The proposal reduces some administrative obstacles and is a small but important step towards the development of librarianism and publishing in our country. The book market is specific in Slovenia because of its dimension and therefore careful treatment by cultural policy and law-makers is urgently needed. In early August 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a new Law on a mandatory copy of publications to the National Assembly. It proposes a clearer definition of the basic terms and mandatory elements of the collophon and a reduction in the number of mandatory copies of certain publications issued by means of public funds, or they have been founded or supported by domestic public legal persons. The latter relieves the work of study libraries and libraries, which are always missing, given that we are publishing more and more books in Slovenia, there are also more works. Otherwise, it's about basics. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] However, I can say that it has now been very carefully reviewed, including complete terminology and consistency with the terminology dictionary of the library profession. [[...]] In particular, in order to protect the public interest, it is important to provide for pressure as the subject of a mandatory copy, provided that it together with the load exceeds 50 copies, and that provision also includes facsimiles, irrespective of the number of copies issued. This also allows for greater accessibility to publications that represent invaluable Slovenian cultural heritage and its accessibility in libraries. Even though a wider public was involved in the drafting of the Law, the Chamber of Publications, Bookkeeping, Graphic Activities and Broadcasting Media at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia expressed its dissatisfaction, in particular with the mandatory indication of the number of publications published and the price of only that in the cologne. We have examined the Social Democrats' proposal and concluded that both the price and the information on printed loads of information, which provide a high degree of transparency in the operation of the bookkeeping, and ultimately allow the publication as such to be covered as a mandatory copy. Without specifying the number of printed copies, they would not even know whether the publication is or is not the subject of a mandatory copy. The bill was unanimously supported by members of the parent’s working body, indicating a single focus on regulating the area. In the Group of Social Democrats, as we say, we will support the amendment and expect the NUK, as a national depositary, to draw up a regulation or implementing act for the operationalisation of a rather difficult law within three months. With regard to history and historical reminiscence in the Illyrian provinces, I would only point out that the mandatory copy, of course, contributed to the development of the study libraries in Slovenia, but not to forget that the mandatory copy was, of course, mainly and basically, back then in centuries, due to subordinate censorship and due to sightseeing and the possibility of reviewing all printed editions in the then province of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u139	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, warmly greeted Madam Minister! The amendment of the law is good, modern, terminological and urgently necessary, so we will support it. But let me add that they still forgot about the fax machine, which is very important for the study material. That is why in the SDS Group we have tabled an amendment that apparently impressed the Minister so much that she has won the coalition's signatures, which our amendment has been drafted, upgraded, and so is some kind of joint work. And that's why I congratulate you and we'll support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greeting, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! As we have already heard, the amendment of the Compulsory copy of the Publications Act is a result of the decision taken on the basis of programmes to remove administrative barriers for 2008. This was encouraged by the Chamber of Commerce, since the existing provisions of the law imposed mandatory dispatch or submission of publications to the Depositary Organisation in four or sixteen copies, if the publication was published by public means, which would result in additional costs and additional administration. The Chamber of Commerce therefore proposed that the request for the dispatch of booklets and small print be removed from the law. On the basis of this initiative, the competent Ministry of Culture has examined and prepared a proposal for a new Law on a mandatory copy of small presses, internal publications, publications in lower loads and major posters, which are stored by the National and University Library and the University Library of Maribor, bibliographically processed and put into use. As has already been said, the main solution to the proposed novel is that the current method of collecting a mandatory copy of the previously mentioned publications should be regulated by removing, as much as possible, the administrative obstacle, of course while maintaining the integrity of information on the important part of Slovenian cultural heritage. They also mentioned all the specificities of small print. When this novel is adopted, we will indeed support this bill in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u143	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, Your Honor. In the DeSUS Group we support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Compulsory copy of the Publication Act. In particular, we support the main solution presented by the novel, namely that the current method of collecting a mandatory copy of small print press, internal publications, publications in lower loads and larger posters will be set up in a way that will reduce administrative barriers to the economy or other factors in society to the minimum extent possible. At the same time, the novel maintains the integrity of information about the important part of Slovenian cultural heritage. Thus, the principles and objectives of the proposal do not deviate from the basic law, so, as has already been said, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u145	We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Proposal for a DECLARATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT'S RESOLUTION ON THE EUROPEAN CONTRIBUTIONS AND TOTALITARISM OF 2. APRIL 2009 At the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service, at the time of its consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Notification of the Resolution of the European Parliament on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009, pointed out that the amendment adopted on the home working body, by which the title of the act was converted from a resolution to a declaration, created an internal non-compliance of the act, as the amendment did not at the same time correct the reference giving the legal basis for the adoption of the act under consideration. The proposed harmonisation amendment was not adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly commissioned his mother's working body to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee therefore adopted the harmonisation amendment to the preamble to the proposal for a declaration at its 19th urgent meeting on 18 September 2009 as a working body pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee for the Complementary or Complementary Explanation of the Harmonisation Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. You've said more or less everything in the introduction. The fact is that, on the basis of the request of the President of the National Assembly at its urgent 19th meeting, on 18 September 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy adopted, on the basis of Rule 140(7) of the Rules of Procedure, the harmonisation amendment to the preamble to the proposal for a declaration, namely, the number 109 being replaced by the number 110 in the preamble and the internal non-conformity of the act being established by this harmonisation amendment. This gives us a basis for our further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate, namely the harmonisation amendment, to the preamble. I am putting forward a preamble and a harmonisation amendment to the debate, asking Members and Members to discuss only the content of the harmonisation amendment, which reads as follows: In the preamble, number 109 is replaced by number 110. Anybody want to talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u148	[[...]] [[From the bench.]] Procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u149	Procedurally, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand that very well. How can we only discuss whether 109 is replaced by 110?Oh, my God! Because in this case, if we discuss this, I'm going to say for three minutes that maybe 109 would be better replaced by 119. For if we do not discuss the subject on our own, it is so meaningless that we only discuss two numbers. Therefore, I think it makes sense to discuss other matters and I ask you to convey to our National Assembly this opportunity to discuss the subject on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u151	Your Honor. When I was preparing for this point, I was a little embarrassed, too, but I tried to read all the things and read them and realized that we were only talking about the preamble, the number 109, which is replaced by the number 110. Everything else in the material says and please, once again, who wants to discuss this amendment? Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u152	I laughed spontaneously, but it's a great sadness.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u153	It's not illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u154	It is a great regret that such a topic is brought to such a point. And I also think it is a shame that the text of which one act of the National Assembly says that it has become familiar with it is not an integral part of the act itself. This is thus a humiliation of one of the most important and even pressing matters of the European past and the future, which is not an honour of politics in the Republic of Slovenia. This resolution contains concepts, containing a way of dealing with the atrocities that marked the 20th century. This resolution is the basis for telling new generations this. It is the basis for thinking and acting in a direction, and I will now say the word that has been misused, in the direction of reconciliation within European countries and between European countries. It's a resolution on a new consciousness, I'd say, about a real consciousness. And the fact that the matter is brought procedurally to such a point is something that will remain in memory as a major mistake, as a major burdensome mistake that has been made. Given, of course, the sovereignty of all parliaments to deal with certain issues in a sovereign manner with their own texts and so on [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u155	Mr. Battelli, I must remind you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u156	but [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u157	we are discussing the amendment, and everything that has been done before [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u158	It's me. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u159	What was done and done before, I read it. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u160	I express my opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u161	Then please proceed to the amendment. Now I've given you a lot of time, but you've been arguing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u162	This will remain in memory as a big mistake and a great missed opportunity for Slovenia as a European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u163	Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. I'm sorry, Mr Victory Jelinčič Noble, I thought you might have some kind of procedural, but Mr Jerovšek came forward for the debate earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u164	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u165	Procedurally, even. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u166	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly adopted a proposal yesterday. My procedural proposal was based on the government's representation, and now I see it coming. I was just about to propose what we adopted yesterday as a binding decision that we cannot address the points without the presence of a government representative. I see that the Secretary of State is now here. Although I believe that, on a matter of such importance, where we touch on the foundations of European consciousness and European relations and democracy, the Minister should sit here with all due respect for the Secretary of State. This is a fundamental issue in Europe and the fact that it is trying to reject the memory of totalitarianism as something negative, already reflects the consequences of the world, because Slovenia is considered a soft belly of anti-democracy, where different ambassadors can send and so forth and is already vengeful [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u167	Mr Jerovšek, your procedural proposal is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u168	My procedural proposal is that, Mr President, you also invite the Minister to participate in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u169	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much. I agree with you about what we said yesterday, about representing the government, or about the participation of government representatives at meetings of the National Assembly. I think the representative of the government came, if he's a little late, I forgive him, because with the agenda today we've rushed extremely fast and we're early, really early, underlining, we've reached this point. So the government's presence is assured. Who else wants to discuss it? Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Mr President. The fact is that this amendment changes the word "resolution" to the word "declaration". However, I do not know what is so important here that we are talking about this, after all, the main feature of this act is that it completely and completely ignores the genocidal violence against Slovenians by Italians, Austrians, Hungarians, Croats and, of course, Yugoslav authorities after the war. In comparison with what is said in the case of the Katin Forest, Slovenians have paid significantly worse for totalitarianism than any other nation in Europe. And yet they're kind of pushing us away. Equally all the violence committed by Croatia over Slovenia in World War II [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u171	Mr. Victory Jelinčič, I must be consistent with everyone. I have to stop you. We're discussing an amendment. Please, if we are discussing, not other matters relating to this, but only the amendment. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u172	I explain, Mr President, why we cannot agree to this change to me or in our Group of Members, even because we do not agree at the beginning either with the number 109 or with the number 110, and I explain it. But I have to explain it a little bit wider, because otherwise it just doesn't work. For this declaration, in itself, speaks of the Ribbentrop-Molotov agreement, but is calmly avoided by the Munich Agreement between Chamberlaien, Daladier and Hitler. In short, despite this harmonisation amendment, domestically speaking, it sucks. And there's no way we're gonna back her up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u174	Even in the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot agree in any way on how to deal with this document. We completely undermine Mr Battelli's debate and this valorisation at 109 and 110 is the final reflection of what will be adopted in this House. We think that a basic resolution without major debates and without actually having to do with this declaration of familiarity with the Resolution of the European Parliament should now be a conversion of words and a political party or a political party interpreting this matter on its own. We are talking about the European resolution and Slovenia as a European country with all the horrors that totalitarian systems have brought, without much debate, without much condemnation and, in my opinion, one of the most important lines in this resolution, that without the truth, without the memory of reconciliation, it has also taken this into account and adopted such a resolution to a large extent. I am also bitter about the way we are discussing today. Certainly such a document as is proposed, and with this amendment is now ready, I will not support it. Similarly, I think other colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'd like to warn you one more time! I have read everything that has happened so far, what has been said at the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, what has been at the home work, what has been said by the Legislative and Legal Service and on us today, so we have a procedure to discuss the preamble with number 109, to replace it with number 110, so on the harmonisation amendment and regrettably nothing else. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I am also appalled at what happened in the Slovenian Parliament, that the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism has been so "flagrantly" rejected, and that procedural manoeuvre has led to the end of this resolution. By doing so, Slovenia has sent out strange messages throughout Europe and around the world that human rights violations and the worst crimes against humanity in Slovenia have even received approval. In this way, when Slovenia rejected the celebration on 23 August as a day of remembrance, it "reaffirmed" the Ribbentrop-Molotov or Hitler-Stalin agreement, which it already reflects throughout Europe. I must conclude that the bad consequences of this are already present. Slovenia has become a country in force, I would say, a'soft belly' regarding respect for human rights or respect for human rights in the past and also in the present. And we have already received concrete responses from other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u177	Mr. Jerovšek, would you excuse me? That's how I have to be consistent with everyone else. There's something else I'd like to tell you. I have read about all that you say, most of the other Members, including history, and also what has now been written. Once again, we are talking about the harmonisation amendment because we are taking the process forward and we have not yet voted on this resolution. But you talk like it's already done. Please, the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u178	Yes, Mr Vice-President, we are talking about the harmonisation amendment. The coalition wants to confirm with this harmonisation amendment that in Slovenia the Resolution of the European Parliament does not apply and will not be respected. And that's why you're giving her a business cover. I am in favour of the recognition of the European Parliament Resolution in Slovenia. For this reason, I cannot accept that this is being renamed a declaration, because it is a violation of some of the fundamental principles, namely the non-recognition of the European Union as a relationship that we have also entered into on the basis of some principles and certain values. We're trying to deny all of this now. We have before us an amendment that wishes to confirm the coalition's behaviour in the final stages. This is unacceptable and unacceptable because it is more than just a big mistake, although I agree with my colleague Battelli and the European Parliament Resolution. The resolution from the European Parliament would also be confined to all totalitarianism, including fascism and crime on behalf of fascism. However, it is painful in this country to see that some totalitarianisms existed and others did not exist. True, we are witnessing the praises of one totalitarianism in this country. At least in Parliament, however, we should be aware of the sharp limits to which we can go. Germany has legally banned all propaganda of Nazism, has "denified" the country. We know how severe the consequences for our minority have been that Austria has not done so, that Italy has not formally condemned its crimes. And now we want to give it, I would say, to cover the conduct of Austria and Italy, which did not condemn fascism, which did not condemn anyone for fascism. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u179	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u180	We give cover to this and to all [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u181	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u182	the consequences for our minority and for all that has happened in fascism also on our soil. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u183	Mr Jerovšek, I'll have to interrupt you if you won't listen to me. I'm in charge of the session. If your words were intended to tell me what was done with regard to whether it was a declaration or a resolution, then you must turn to the Legislative and Legal Service. The legal and legal service was the one we believe in, and we trust, who said it was necessary to make this harmonisation amendment. If you want to hear what the resolution means and what the declaration means, read the Rules of Procedure, Articles 109 and 110. However, I ask you to speak only of the harmonisation amendment from now on, otherwise I will force you, given that I have done so before, to take away the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u184	I'm talking about the harmonisation amendment. I am talking about the need to adopt a resolution in this House. The text written by the coalition parties could be a proposal for some transitional provisions or an additional decision not proposed by the applicants. That's true. However, the declaration seeks to affect the purpose of the applicants, as well as of the European Parliament and the European public. It is reported that Slovenia will not be subject to what the European Parliament has decided, which the European public are committed to, and this is a devastating, terrifying message you wish to send from this Parliament. Such a feast, such rape of a resolution of the European Parliament cannot be established.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u186	If you take my word for it, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u187	I didn't take it from you, but I thanked you for your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u188	Mr. President, I'll thank you when I'm done. Mr President, I see that you are under great pressure from the leader of the Group of Members, Mr Kontić, who was hiding with his hands. The last time I started talking to the Committee on Petitions about how the ombudsman, to which this topic belongs, will be discussed exclusively, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u189	Mr Jerovšek, I ask you very much to talk about the amendment, not the pressures to be exerted on me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u190	The second year, we mark August 23rd, when Mrs Potrata almost fell from her chair with her face and movement.I do not know whether this House is allowed to talk about these things which are universally recognised in Europe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u191	I would like to be in this House [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u192	If you don't mind, Mr President, if you've made it clear that you've taken a stand on some side, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek, for listening to me. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. All European Parliaments have their own rules and chairs, and as much as I am informed, the rules of procedure and the Presidents follow, it is only with us that this is happening more and more rarely. I support the proposed amendment. If we do not accept the proposed amendment, then - please read the Rules of Procedure - the declaration we are proposing will also be rejected. The proposed amendment is a logical consequence of the content we have adopted. And I, as well as my colleagues, support her without any bad news and without any shame. During the preparation of this declaration, we have found that most European countries, not to say everything, each in its own way accepts European documents. There has also been an attempt to degrade the decision of the Slovenian Parliament in the European Parliament, and it is with the clear statement of the President of the European Parliament that the national parliaments' decision will not fail, that attempt has failed and has failed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us decide on the proposed amendment. If we adopt it, the procedure on the European Parliament's resolution will be completed in an appropriate manner, even in the National Assembly, otherwise the resolution will not be adopted in the form of a declaration and the procedure will be completed. I think you're aware of that. I'll back her up. I'll back her up. I'll back her up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich. [[The ad in the hall.]] Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u196	Mr President, I have listened attentively to my predecessor, Mr Potræ, and I must say that I was dismayed by the simplicity of recognition when he said that in the European Parliaments the rules of procedure are being respected, only with us the respect of the Rules of Procedure is becoming increasingly rare. Mr Potrč confirmed that such work, such a mutilation of the European Parliament's resolution, was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I must say, I did not expect such a simple confession, but I am grateful to him. All that is happening this time is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am firmly convinced, but because he said that the Rules of Procedure are very rarely respected in this National Assembly, I suggest that the Business Commission meet to find that what has been done is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it also takes all the necessary steps to prevent violations of the Rules of Procedure from taking place at other points. With such an experienced policy here freely admitting that the rules of procedure are very rarely respected, you must act as chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. If that's a replica, please, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u198	No, it's just an explanation. Mr Jerovšek did not listen literally and clearly to my debate. I said that in the debates and in the respect of the Rules of Procedure and the President, there is increasingly little respect, and I thought specifically of you and all the others who have spoken about it today. As for the adoption of the resolution, I have said how I feel about it. Mr Jerovšek has heard this and has spoken only about half of my claim, which is also the usual practice in this House and may require that the Business Commission find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u200	This amendment would not be considered today if the party requiring consideration of this item on the agenda did not behave improperly in relation to the Rules of Procedure and in relation to the National Assembly. After all, we have already had the harmonisation amendment, which the proponents have proposed, but it has gone far beyond what was meant to be harmonisation and therefore could not be adopted. According to the procedure, it is only normal for the mother's working body to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Of course I'll back him up. It is unusual to deal with resolutions in this way, but since it has been done so, I agree that on a business committee, and perhaps even urgently, we are considering how these things can come on the agenda. For we have in fact made a serious shift from democratic practice in Europe through the way and then through the whole procedure for dealing with this resolution. We have also received a comparison of what this is like in the other parliaments in Europe. No matter how many take this harmonisation amendment or this resolution, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament is also valid for citizens and citizens of Slovenia and for all others in Europe; as one perceives, it is his business. I myself, as it is said, support this amendment, because this will round up the procedure on this resolution. Is this possible to conclude, as we will conclude today, the answer is yes. For, like there is no obligation to consider the resolution, it is an obligation to adopt the amendment and to conclude the procedure or not to adopt the amendment and also to conclude it. That would be even worse than not accepting this amendment, so I will support it. Finally, I would just like to thank Mrs Cizelj Jordan, Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj, who, already in Europe, is of the opinion that some of us think it is only right that the Slovenian Parliament is free to decide its own destiny and, of course, that each Member can have its own opinion and opinion, I will not go to Canosso and also Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj will not send me there with the help of Mr Busko. And that's one of those things that comes back to you with things like boomerang. I will support this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u201	Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President-in-Office. I absolutely agree with you that you should talk about the item on the agenda, it is said, of the harmonisation amendment, but Mr Anderlic you did not warn anything when he spoke of Mrs Romani Jordan Cizelj, who is absolutely not the item of the agenda. I'll stick to it. This is an editorial correction because the proposal for an act has been amended during the procedure as set out in the resolution into a declaration, so today we have a harmonisation amendment before us. I must say that such an amendment has already been proposed by us on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and at that time the coalition has simply overheard this fact, probably because it has instead dealt with how it will destroy the resolution or make it null and void, which they have finally achieved with the preamble. So today we are not talking about a European resolution, but we are talking about and adopting a resolution or some harmonisation amendment to a resolution that is not actually there. And that is what is most horrifying, and here I agree, absolutely with Mr Battelli and also with Mr Bogovic. Both said the same thing, that we should talk about the basic resolution, but this coalition simply overcame the basic resolution, despite 89% of European Members voting for it in the European Parliament. And that is when I myself thought that this single vote of all European Members would give hope that Slovenia could, however, overcome this division and establish such a way of action, including political one, to condemn all totalitarianism: fascism, Nazism and communism. But the worst thing about it is that some European Members coming from coalition groups or their clients are very democratic on foreign soils, very open, they supported the resolution when they are at home, in safe haven, when no one is able to do anything to them, and they simply destroy it. And that is the main problem, and that is why we should discuss this today, not the harmonisation amendment. Because there is no resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I didn't interrupt you either, Mrs Irgle, when you were talking about other things, not the harmonisation amendment. Anybody else want to discuss the harmonisation amendment? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the decision on the harmonisation amendment will be made in half an hour, that is to say at 2.50 p.m. At 2.50 p.m., we'll begin the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u204	Dear colleagues, Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We continue the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the Bill on Funeral Activities and Management of Cemetery in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on funeral activity and funeral management is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 26. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 9th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act in the context of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade Reserves in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on Trade Reserves. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education within the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. I propose that we vote against such a decision read by the President. So the law is not suitable for further consideration. The reason why I propose that we vote against such a decision is as follows. Over 6,000 teachers and teachers who have completed their sixth grade and are in service for about 25, 28, 30 years or more are in an unequal position towards teachers and teachers with completed seventh grade, although they have been educated all the time. It is these teachers and teachers who have also taught us to a great extent those who are sitting here in Parliament, and today, by rejecting this law, we deprive them of their professional and human dignity. The fact is, if any of these teachers or teachers have a break in their working hours, the job for 3 months, that is 90 days plus 1 day, under the law, the applicable law will no longer meet the conditions for further work in school. That's discriminatory. The amendment of the 1996 law gave those who had fulfilled all the requirements and, of course, the rest of what was necessary, the teacher’s, andragogic, etc., were able to do this work until they had a broken working relationship. Even more, it was so cruel that they could not move from one public school to another. Now I can, but in a period of only three months. If they did not do so in these three months, the ruling coalition today said that they were no longer able to do this work, because, of course, the procedures for education, education, general completion had been interrupted. I ask you which profession in this country has completed for three months and if within three months it stops, I could no longer do my job. Let's not do this or support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 39, against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the Council of State has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 23rd item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for Decisions on Consent to Amendments and supplementing the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly agrees to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 8.9 2009. We're voting. So, we're re-voting. Be careful. It's an important item in the agenda. We're voting. Allow me to read the outcome of the vote. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the National Assembly has given its consent and thus conclude this item on the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that Members and Members of the opposition have not already voted at the previous point, I propose that they be cut off from their salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u208	Mr Levanič, the proposal has been formally formally drafted, but I suggest you read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Peace in the hall! We continue to end the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. Peace in the hall! We are in the voting process, so I expect a certain amount of attention and concentration. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 15. We're voting. We don't have a concoction. I repeat the vote. We'll vote next time. There are 46 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 4. (The vote was 41.)(against 4.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 29. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 14th item of the agenda - consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Compulsory copy of Publications Act, reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 22nd item on the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on familiarity with the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2 April 2009. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. The Group of Members will not vote on this amendment because the whole document is distorted and has completely reversed the purpose of the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Indeed, we have tabled a declaration on this resolution in order to form a value-added attitude towards this resolution, a value-added attitude towards the totalitarian regimes of the previous century, a value relationship given by the whole of Europe in the sense that, in terms of the victims, it does not matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or killing them for any reason. Instead of this valuable relationship, which we expected to be a starting point for the Slovenian Parliament to discuss these issues, we have received a declaration that we have only become acquainted with this resolution and that our communism has not been so severe, especially in recent years it has been very human. Far from being recognized as such, since 15,000 political prisoners were officially recognized in the postwar period, their status has been confirmed, and many other matters. This is the relationship that we have only become acquainted with these problems, as if the debate on the crimes in Srebrenica had ended with the conclusion that we have come to know each other - but what. Or the problem of concentration Nazi camps or Italian fascist camps - we just got to know each other! Such an attitude toward these problems is humiliating for all the victims who are still alive, abusive, and humiliating. That is why we will not support this amendment, nor will we vote on it, because it is not worth the document you will vote on, any attention and shame to Slovenia and all those Members who feel with the victims of any totalitarianism that has so bloody marked the last century of Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, Jakob Presectnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u211	Therefore, given what has happened with this resolution and that we have agreed on a declaration, I declare in advance that the Slovenian People's Party's Party's Group will not participate in this decision. We are of course convinced that we should move forward with Europe and condemn all totalitarianism, so, as we say, a declaration has emerged from the resolution, some confusion has arisen, and the parliamentary group, as it is said, will not take part in this confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u212	Dear colleague Presečnik, have you just stated your position that you will not participate in this vote or have you announced obstruction at the point? Obstruction at this point. Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like an explanation of vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please. I have understood that Vice-President France Tsukjati will not take part in this vote. You want No, I've announced obstruction. [[...]] That's it. I understand you correctly, so Dr. Vinko Gorenak has every opportunity and right to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. So, we're talking about the amendment. The amendment actually means - what? When we buy someone a present and wrap it in a nice piece of paper, we usually put it next to a bow tie or a flower. This is actually this amendment. But, look, this amendment was prepared by us, in the SDS Group, at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which I run. But what happened? Voting after Automatism. A full vote after automation: because it says: the SDS proponent, my finger goes "against". That's the logic of the coalition. And that's why we're adopting this document and this amendment today, and we're talking about it today, instead of being at the September session when there was no debate, but that's what you wanted. But there is still a problem in all of this - that we are talking today about this amendment, which represents a ribbon, a gift that was intended for the Slovenians, who should be here for this resolution, but you have stolen. This means that you offer the Slovenians a gift in a nice box, a valuable gift, and you stole the contents. This content is a resolution condemning all totalitarianism. Why did you steal it? You probably know that. But now we're voting on a ribbon on a gift to the Slovenes. And we bought that pint, and you didn't want to put it up at the board meeting. And that's problematic. Of course I don't intend to vote. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, did you want to explain your voice? No, no, no. You don't have to. You raised your hand earlier. Do you want to or don't you want to?Oh, my God! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Because you've looked at me so nicely, I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u216	You don't have to, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u217	I will, I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u218	I can also interrupt you if I can watch ugly. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u219	You're not so kind again. You seem to be in a slightly better mood today. The Honorable President. It is difficult to vote for the third time on the same content in the National Assembly. I must say that we have already drafted an amendment for the working group to remedy all these inconsistencies that have arisen in the procedure in the process of addressing this resolution in the National Assembly, but the coalition is so strong, so arrogant, so full of itself that it did not want to support these matters a month and a half ago. We have also prepared a harmonisation amendment for the previous meeting of the National Assembly, which would solve the exact same problem and also align the content of the title with the content of what you have accepted. Nor did you attract this and at least what it is, is that in such a way of working as you have now set it up in the National Assembly to solve problems, correct mistakes, arrogantness and force the National Assembly into some decisions, you have forced me not to vote on this amendment because you have so awkwardly failed and made it. I would suggest that you establish a culture of dialogue in the National Assembly, including a culture of decision-making. Unfortunately, we've been missing all this lately. Everything is somehow done by force, past the rules of procedure, past the rules of the National Assembly, all as the President has imagined, usually the President, or the coalition in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Explanation of Eva Irgle's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. I have already said in the debate what I think about this harmonisation amendment. And yet I want to explain my voice. I will not vote on this harmonisation amendment, but not because I think it is bad, after all, it is just an editorialism, an insignificance, but I will not vote on it because I simply do not recognise the way it is portrayed and used by the coalition in adopting this resolution. I do not agree with this way, because with the preamble, the coalition has achieved that it has completely falsified the European Parliament's resolution and has eventually completely erased it. So today we are coordinating something that is not, we are voting or you are voting on something that is not, that does not exist. In my opinion today, we should act differently, support the European Parliament resolution, as it was written in the European Parliament, and as supported by 89% of Members of the European Parliament and with them all Slovenian European Members, including Members from a number of coalition parties. And here is some great duality - when we're abroad, then we show our openness, democracy, we know what totalitarianism has done, and when we're home, we're safe when no one can do anything about us, and we just delete this resolution. And that is the main problem, so of course I cannot vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Since it's obviously still an interest in explanation of vote, I'm asking you to apply. Voice explanation, Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment and against the way the coalition has crippled this resolution. We have to name things with the right name and more polytologists have historically dealt with the phenomenon of totalitarianism, there have been several different models, but all of these models have something in common and there must be at least 6 characteristics for totalitarianism. The first is this legal ideology - the official ideology in the former Yugoslavia existed. The second feature is one and the only party - the Communist Party was one and the only party. The third feature is police terror - in Yugoslavia there was police terror. The fourth feature of totalitarianism is a monopoly on armed forces - the Communist Party had a monopoly on armed forces. The fifth feature is a monopoly on the media - also one and the only party had this monopoly over the media. And the sixth feature is central management and control of the entire economy, which was also the case in the former country. And we had all of this in the time of communism, and because of this system it is not possible to call it totalitarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of the resolution declaration. I mean, like... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u226	Kek, first the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u227	for the amendment. [[...]] Thank you for the note. Like all European parliaments, ours has also been informed of the resolution mentioned, and it has not been debated or voted on in any Parliament. The opposition wants us to do this. They're nowhere else. And in this way, it is as if we are against this resolution. That's not true. And this declaration does not put this resolution on the head, this declaration condemns all totalitarianism with communism, without concern!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u229	Good-bye to all of you! With this harmonisation amendment, you've obviously decided to bring things to absurdity. Okay, so that's your decision, but you forgot something. In Slovenia, once things get to absurdity, people start to think. And in this case, the situation will be clear. The question will only be what is the European value space and now the whole truth will be revealed: that you, in this European space, do not judge by your thinking, that is what you have decided. You are exposing this to your harmonisation amendment and this is witnessed by yesterday's or yesterday's statement, which we watched on television by one of the key ideologies of the transition left, who roared and shaved a fool. Be careful, he was making fun of the notions of Europe, European consciousness and shouting, what European consciousness is that. That's it! We have a declaration of European consciousness, which has been adopted by a very high majority in the European Parliament. And that is not a coincidence, there is also a statement by one of the key people of the longstanding leader of the SD Group of Members who even murmured at the committee meeting that he forbids us not to let us talk about what is European [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u230	Comrade Grimes, you're politicizing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u231	I'm just talking about it, Mr. Gantar, as a witness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u232	You're paralyzing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u233	on a purely different period. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u234	and I am obliged to warn and interrupt you if necessary. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u235	Basically, Mr. Gantar, if you've taken away my precious time, you know very well why - because it spoils things. So that's the situation. When I suggested in the spring that this should be dealt with in Parliament, and the SDS Group supported me in this, we wanted to do something good to end some controversy at the European level, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Which would be useful for everyone. [[...]] Now you've done the opposite, and you've just exposed yourself like a non-European. And let me be honest with you. By the time you've exposed yourself, you've drawn [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Procedural - Miran Run. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u237	Mr President, thank you so much for your intervention, not for me. I'm used to being told lies and untruths. But it's something else. When I explained to Mr Jerovšku earlier that the rules of procedure were becoming less and less respected, I thought precisely that, for example, Members and Members were trying to talk about what should be my or the opinion of the opposite sex when they explain their voice. I would ask that everyone get used to it, that when I explain my voice, I will tell my relationship, why I will be in favour or against or abstaining with a solution, but not that either on my knees I beg or threaten someone else, how I must vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much. There is no debate on this, not procedurally procedural, Mr Grimes. [[...]] Please. Only if you make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u239	Procedurally, I propose that the magnetogram of that meeting of the committee at which we addressed the so-called harmonisation amendment, which also contains Mr. Potrč's exact statement, be printed and distributed to all on the table in writing, so that they can be sure themselves [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u240	This is not a procedural proposal, Mr Grimes. The issue of voice explanations is over. I must say that I agree with what Mr Potrč and the Vice-President of the National Assembly have said, I am doing my best to explain my voice, but, unfortunately, some would like to continue with the controversy of all kinds. Explanation of the voice of Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The European Parliament's resolution should be adopted and confirmed in this Parliament by acclamation. With this I would [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u242	Mr Jerovšek, like with colleague Kek - explanation of vote on the amendment, the harmonisation amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u243	I will not vote on the amendment because it destroys the resolution. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. If we wanted to send a message from this Parliament that Slovenia has renounced totalitarianism forever, then that would not be a dilemma. Now that we have not voted on the resolution, but we have voted, you have voted that the resolution in Slovenia does not apply, and you are sending a message that there is a real place for human rights violations and the worst crimes caused by totalitarianism to be repeated in the future. European Ambassador Mojca Drčar Murko is like the majority, and all Slovenian Members voted in favour of the resolution in the European Parliament. But when she was called home, apparently by some other living communist tripods, she declared that it had collapsed. It's a disgraceful act, such a duality. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u244	Dear colleague Jerovšek, please do not judge in this way [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u245	Not just that. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u246	Because they can't defend themselves. [[....]] It's perfect. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u247	You're stealing my time, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u248	Mr Jerovšek, please limit yourself to the explanation of the voice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u249	Stop time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u250	But not to dispute with people who are not even present in this National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u251	You are also giving up the Sahara Prize, which is a twin of this resolution. [[...]] The European Parliament has voted and is in favour of human rights. You give up this, and destroy it, and disgrace the Saharan reward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We're voting on the amendment. There are 44 Members present. Well, the vote was inconclusive. We are going back to the vote. We're voting. Peace in the hall! 42 Members are present. The vote was not final, so I am putting an end to the vote for 10 minutes after the third vote has been carried out. We continue the meeting at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u253	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Please take your seats. We are ahead of the third vote on the harmonisation amendment. Please take your seats! So we start with a third vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group; Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, the coalition has actually brought us into a very awkward situation, the whole Slovenian state. A few months before this resolution, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Srebrenica, and at that time the President of the National Assembly marked that memorial with a minute of silence. Three months later, this European Parliament resolution on the condemnation of totalitarianism was once again. We have in writing proposed that we similarly mark this celebration, or this memory, with a minute of silence, but the President of the National Assembly has quietly ignored it. I must say, we are actually in a very awkward situation. More than 100,000 people have the status of victims of war and postwar events, war violence, pensions and damages. Through some town you will vote for the law, because we will also give these victims a monument in this country and the President of the Republic, if I understand it correctly, the Prime Minister of the Government will come to open this memorial mark to the victims of war, post-war violence and revolution, that is to say, some totalitarian regime. However, when we discussed this resolution, you did everything you could to destroy the content of the resolution, which is not in fact in this text, and the National Assembly, which is very open, did not take note of the resolution of the European Parliament because you deleted it. We accept something that is not today. And worse still, for all these many victims who are eligible, now after so many years there are almost 100,000 of them, we will not have a memorial day, we will build a monument, we will have a great state celebration, and we will not have a memorial day for these victims of totalitarian regimes that have also struck Slovenia. That the matter is even worse among those Members who supported the European Parliament's resolution, there are three in the European Parliament who belong to those political parties in this National Assembly representing the coalition and who oppose the adoption of the resolution in the original text of the European Parliament. Perhaps Mr Kacin, Mrs Drčar Murko and Mr Juri were not mistaken, or perhaps they were not misled, voted consciously - or maybe they were also misled. And now we are in a situation where the coalition has decided that a resolution of the European Parliament, supported by all Members from Slovenia, must be ignored and extended. As a result of such deformation in this process and the treatment, I predict the obstruction of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's been an obstruction. At the same time, I must also say that in this place I cannot and must not dispute with certain positions which also concern me. I can only say that they are completely and completely unreal. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you, Mr. President. After all, it is a question of what to vote on and what to conclude, when we are merely familiar with the matter. The matter is not relevant and we do not need to vote on it, but if you have decided to do so, you have decided. I think, and in our party, we think that this declaration is inappropriate; it is inappropriate, in particular, because it tells about everything else, not words about devastating massacres on Slovenians. Not a word of Fascist crimes against the Slovenians are mentioned, Nazi crimes by the Italians, Nazi crimes by the Germans and especially by the Austrians, Nazi crimes by the Hungarian merciful, Nazi or Usthar crimes by the Croats, and there is no mention of crimes by the Second. The world wars that were fought over the Slovenians over those who were willing to fight for the Slovenian land and who did not allow the Slovenian land to be stolen as it was and joined to the Croats, there is not a word about it. For this reason, I believe that this resolution or declaration is essentially worthless. We will not predict obstruction, but we will not vote in favour. We're gonna press the quorum, and I think that's enough. The European Parliament looks at everything very strangely, and I think that the red-brown massacre across Europe is significantly smaller than the black-red massacre on Slovenians. And if we compare the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, this pact is nothing compared to the Chamberlain-Daladier-Hitler Pact, which triggered this murder in World War II. Therefore, in such declarations, I think we must have one historical distance. Above all, we must always look at our homeland, our people and our victims, and all of this is forgotten. Our MEPs are doing absolutely nothing to ensure that these things come before the European public and that the European public is aware of something other than their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u257	Voice explanation, Roberto Battelli. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u258	Mr President, I am also announcing obstruction in this vote and I do not have much to explain why. The public knows why. I can also add that a declaration of familiarity with the resolution is now to be adopted, which is not an integral part of the text, but is being sent to the European Parliament's website. I think it's more than a heads-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, you predicted obstruction. I understand that. Since the obstruction of an individual Member is not possible, only the Members' Group, I understand that you have announced the obstruction of the Group of Nationalities. Otherwise, I can't understand it by the rules of procedure. You can do that, too, no problem. You want procedural? Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u260	I'd like to explain in a procedural manner. I knew you'd hunt me down. I haven't been since yesterday. But you know, this Parliament also has double criteria, because once it was true and it was considered that we were in fact a single parliamentary group, but in fact there are two. But when it suits someone, there's only one group of Members. You decide for yourself, you can tear me off my salary, you know, it's not. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u261	No, Mr. Battelli. The Rules of Procedure know as well as you do, and I will not discuss it again. Good. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote was not final. We're re-voting. We're voting. The vote didn't run. The vote is under way. 43 Members and Members are present. So we're not concluding. The third vote will be repeated in 10 minutes. There will be a third vote at 15.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u262	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, we continue the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and the 22nd paragraph vote. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. We have a third vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm guessing the National Assembly isn't concluded. As a result, I also interrupt the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. The 22nd item will be voted on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
