ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! I suggest we begin with the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Rado Likar, Roberto Battelli, Franz Jurša. So the Members themselves, no MPs. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on with our work. We're moving to seven. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. I'll be very grateful if you'll sit down and start monitoring the meeting. The first mutual greetings are probably done, but now we can give the floor to the bill's proposer to present an additional explanation. Here you are, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Boštjan Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to introduce you to a proposal for a law amending the Law on Land Book and amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Book. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act was adopted in 2008 in April. Among other changes, it introduced a new option for electronic submission of land-book proposals and established the general local authority or the abolition of local jurisdiction for decision-making in land-booking matters. With regard to these two provisions, the law also set a time limit for the application of those provisions on 1 May 2009. With the bill under consideration today, the Government proposes to postpone the application of these two solutions from 1 May 2009 to 1 May 2011. What are the reasons for such a proposal? A two-year postponement of the application of these provisions is due to the fact that, in order to implement these solutions, it is necessary to introduce and introduce into the judicial system a number of technical solutions related to information. It is therefore a matter of introducing new information solutions and, on the other hand, it is also a matter of developing new applications to provide information support to those judicial procedures that have not yet been informed. Of course, it takes time for all of this. The Centre for Court Information in the Supreme Court has been heavily burdened over the past period by a number of tasks resulting from the number of regulations adopted in the last period of the previous government. Thus, the Centre has recently been preoccupied with supporting enforcement procedures on the basis of a credible instrument. As you know, a special new department has been set up for this purpose, which is fully updated, all of which required great time and financial resources from the Supreme Court. Support for registration procedures was developed on the basis of a novel on the Court Registry, which began to apply on 1 February 2008. A number of technical improvements and innovations were also needed to support the new charging of judicial fees under the Law on Judicial Fees. As a result, the Supreme Court was not in a position to prepare all the necessary applications for the introduction of electronic land-booking proposals and the introduction of general local jurisdiction. In view of all this, the Government considers that the only responsibility that can be done at this time is that the deadline for the application of these provisions is to be postponed for two years. The reasons for the need for such a long time limit for the transfer are as follows. It takes three months to produce detailed functional requirements. Harmonisation of functional requirements with user groups and preparation of invitations to tender for the submission of part of the application requires an additional three months. The tendering for the award of part of the application shall also be carried out for three months. It takes between 9 and 12 months to produce the apps itself and its developmental testing. If we add to this the three months needed for user testing and education, we see that it is not really possible to realistically count on such a project to be implemented and completed earlier than in two years. For this reason, the Government proposes that these amendments and amendments be adopted by Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, to present the views of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much. At its meeting on 11 March 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Land Book Act. It was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the College decided at its 13th meeting on 13 February 2009 that this law would be dealt with in a simplified procedure. Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. We have, of course, listened to the representatives of the applicants who, in their supplementary explanation, announced that by the proposed law for two years, that is, by 1 May 2011, the date of entry into force of the individual provisions of the Land Book Act. Although the law has been adopted, those provisions relating to the submission of electronic proposals and the elimination of local jurisdiction to determine in land-book proposals where the conditions for information have not yet been met. These are the conditions to be met by the Centre for Court Information at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Justice. In 2007 and 2008, as the proposalr's representative said, all necessary preparations could not be made to make the law work. The representatives of the Council of State expressed support for the proposed law. The members of the Committee discussed the amendments tabled. The representatives of the coalition parties thus said that they had followed the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services with their amendment while taking into account the proposed suspension of the provisions for two years to ensure the quality of legal regulation in this area. The representative of the SDS Group, however, considered that the shortening of the deadline was unjustified and that is why their amendment or the SDS amendment shortens the deadline by one year, still following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee then adopted the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 3, thus making the SDS Group's amendment irrelevant and did not vote on it. On a scale of 128th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles together and also adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The updated proposal, however, was an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franci Kek will be the first to present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. At its meeting on 25 April 2008, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Land Book, which, inter alia, regulated the submission of electronic proposals, abolished the local competence to decide on land-book proposals. The exercise of the abolition of local competence is not possible without the conditions for the submission of electronic proposals being met at the same time. However, it takes more than one year to develop and launch new information solutions, and we really believe that it is necessary to postpone the application of those provisions of that law, amended or supplemented, relating to the submission of electronic land-book proposals and the related rules on the elimination of local jurisdiction. We also believe, and we agree with the proposal given, that it makes sense in Article 33 of the Law to write down what regulation is applicable in the meantime, so that the provisions of the 2008 Land Book Act apply to the local jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u8	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Desus' position on the proposal for a law amending the Land Book Act is, of course, positive. We will support this proposal, as we see that the new law on the Land Book adopted last year is the reason for the creation of this novel, and this has legalised solutions to the introduction of electronic land-book proposals. At the same time, we had some concerns. The first thought is why this period is postponed for such a period, that is, from 1. 5. 2009 to 1. 5. 2011, but today the applicant has already given this explanation and we somehow agree with it. The second point was that when proposing new legislation should also provide for the effects or consequences of the implementation of a new novel and also take care of all the technical and human resources conditions required by the introduction of the Land Book novel. Let us say, as a bit of a criticism or a warning from the DeSUS Group, that the competent Centre for Court Information at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia would be expected to prepare for this realization of the novel in such a way that it would not be necessary to postpone this deadline or that the deadline would be shorter. Nevertheless, we want all legislation and novelties to be brought into line with technical and human resources options in the future, so that it is not necessary to discuss and waste time on extending the time frame for individual executions. As it is said, the DeSUS Group supports a novel on the land book.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the guests. Dear colleagues! On 5 February this year, the government adopted a bill amending the Land Book Act. It proposes what we have already heard to suspend the implementation of this law, which was adopted on 25 April 2008 to 1 May 2011. There is almost no household in Slovenia that would not need such a service, respected colleagues and colleagues. And it is unreasonable that we do not introduce such a good, simplified way of keeping an electronic book as soon as possible. We had quite a time until today, but today we find that we have not done what we should have done. We have not created new online applications, we do not have computer support, according to our own words, and, of course, we have not been able to do a test system, but to properly conduct education for use. The general local authority has simplified this type of management of the land book and upgrading it would be electronic governance, which would also allow for better transparency, transparency and day-to-day use of the home computer. It is unreasonable that nothing has been done at this time, and it is unreasonable that no one will be responsible for this again because nothing has been done. If workers were to do so in direct production, many of them would probably have been fired because of their irresponsibility. We have no choice but to support it and to wait for the government to do so by that date. In short, we support the law by force of opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The views of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, everyone else here! The proposal for this Act should only extend the time limit for the application of those new rules of the Land Book Act relating to the submission of electronic land Book proposals and the introduction of general local jurisdiction or the abolition of local jurisdiction to decide on land Book proposals from 1 May 2009 to 1 May 2011. It explains that solutions to the submission of electronic proposals and the elimination of local decision-making powers in land-book proposals are inseparably linked, so that the elimination of local competence is not possible without the conditions provided for the submission of electronic proposals at the same time. The bill also explains that it takes two years to develop and start using applications that enable the desired functions. It is said that in 2007 and 2008 it was not possible to begin preparations for the introduction of new information solutions, since the available staff of the competent functions were fully engaged in the introduction of other information solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill because it is probably not a real date on 1 May 2009. Perhaps they themselves would propose 2010 to start using new information solutions. However, if it is said that it takes two years, we will support the proposed solution in the hope that by then a truly high quality of legal regulation will be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u14	Dear Mr. Vice President! Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal for amendments to the Land Book Act and adopts the reasons for the Government to postpone the implementation of individual provisions when it comes to the Land Book Act and amendments to the law and amendments to the law. Therefore, for two years, on 1 May 2011, the time limit for initiating the submission of electronic proposals and the elimination of local competences for decision-making on land-and-book proposals shall be postponed. The reason is that the conditions for information are not yet met. It considers whether the competent institution, the Centre for the Informatics of Courts at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice were not able to initiate preparations for the introduction of new information solutions, not a matter of lazi assessments or political assessments, but an extremely professional question. The amendment that shortens this deadline, for example, for one year, is in itself attractive. But the question is, how real is he? All users want or want to implement new modern applications, but the conditions for information support are obviously not yet met. The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposed bill and rejects all unrealistic deadlines, because we need to ensure that there are really good professional grounds, quality regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are concerned that solutions that are favourable to citizens are stalling, as is the proposal for amendments to the Land Book Act. At the April meeting of the National Assembly last year, a package of four was adopted for citizens of important laws, namely the Land Book, Geodetic Activities, Notariat and the Establishment of Floor Property. This package was the removal of bureaucratic barriers to the integration of real estate records and the establishment of a legal framework, the basis for e-relationships between individual mobile records. The proposal for the Land Book Act, which was adopted in 2008, introduced the possibility that applications could be submitted anywhere in Slovenia, as a general local jurisdiction approach had been introduced. This solution, which was adopted during the government of Janez Janša, has also increased the number of investment cities. Last year's amendment to the Land Book Act brought solutions that are now being postponed. The aim of the solutions adopted by last year's amendment to the Land Book Act was to remove the long deadlines necessary for entry into certain land-book courts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we consider it unreasonable to postpone the application of the law for two years in works relating to the submission of electronic land-book proposals, as well as the abolition of local jurisdiction. The amendment to the Land Book Act proposed a solution that meant removing administrative barriers, and it is therefore unreasonable that such a solution was not given priority in implementation under the new authority. Today we have before us a proposal for a amendment to the Land Book Act, which aims to move the deadline for the application of those provisions of the Land Book Act relating to the submission of electronic land book proposals and thus the abolition of local jurisdiction on land book proposals, from 1 May 2009 to 1 May 2011, for two years of deferral. According to our assessment, the justification for the delay of two years is that information solutions need to be initiated and tested under the given deadlines too long and not really justified. The proposed postponement of the deadline seems to us in the parliamentary group, so we have tabled an amendment proposing that the deadline should be postponed to 1 May 2010. The proposed deadline of 1 May 2010 seems more reasonable because the proposed two-year period for the development and launch of information solutions is too long and really unfounded. In this respect, we stress that preparations for the introduction of the new information solutions necessary for the investment of electronic land-book solutions could be initiated earlier, and that this also entails the abolition of local jurisdiction. This delay under the new authority's tactics is not merely a result of technological, professional and logistical problems, but is also linked to a clear interest in maintaining disorder, opacity, fog and swamps in the land book as long as possible. In the mud water and fog, Slovenian tycoons and crooks with real estates and their lawyers, who have good connections with the current government, are well and better found than other citizens, which is why the solutions proposed by the government of Janez Janša need to be implemented as soon as possible and the solution from our amendment is the maximum possible silence of the current power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. An amendment to Article 3 has been tabled in the draft law, and we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 26 March 2009. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Secretary of State Skrlec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment of the SDS Group, which shortens this transitional period by one year, it should be stressed that such a reduction is not justified. Such a reduction would not lead to the desired result, which is an operating system that will operate during this time period. It is not true that such electronic solutions relating to the operation of courts, in this case the Land Book, are not the priority of this government. They are a priority, but it is true that technological solutions related to information technology urgently take time. Time is demanded for a number of reasons. Appropriate applications need to be developed and the specific needs of each procedure need to be determined. Then such applications should also be programmed and, most importantly, should be tested in practice. Test in order to establish and confirm that they operate in all necessary conditions and ensure all necessary compatibility with other existing information systems. All this, of course, takes time. In my introductory presentation, I explained exactly how many months it takes for each of these stages. And the sum of these times is two years. For this reason, the Government is convinced that a hurry by setting unrealistic deadlines would not lead to the objective that we are pursuing is the introduction of a system that will actually work and that the funds invested in it will be used in an efficient and rational manner. In this regard, it should also be pointed out that, in the case of a set of proposals or laws which have introduced obligations for the Supreme Court, the obligations relating to the introduction of new information technologies were lacking in the funding component. This component of funding has been particularly absent in the case of the land book and the procedures we are talking about today. And this obstacle is now over. At its 1st meeting, the e-Justice Programme Council addressed all e-Justice projects that will receive funding in the future. The Land Book Project is included in this list of projects approved as a priority. To this end, cohesion funds will provide more than €1.7 million or more. It is a major project, a demanding project that requires a lot of time and resources, of course also human resources. As a result, we find it unacceptable to set a deadline that is already unrealistic at first sight. For this reason, the Government opposes the amendment tabled and proposes that the National Assembly adopt the original text, i.e. a postponement of two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Snack. I've seen a few wishes before, so I'm giving time to start applying for the debate. The first one has the word, Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to reply to the distinguished Secretary of State on what he refers to as arguments. The law enabling this was adopted on 25 April 2008. Dear Mr. Skrlec, what has been done so far on this project? How much money have we paid for this project and how much money will we spend on this project? And why are we not European in this context? The amendment we are talking about is completely acceptable, because 2010 is a time dimension that is sufficient, if you have done anything to date on this project that is sufficient to bring it to life. As I said before, there is almost no household in the Republic of Slovenia that would not want this kind of simplification; we are all dealing with the land book as soon as possible. And if we're going to do that, we're going to put the problems down for two, three years ahead, then that's, let's put it mildly irresponsible. I would like you to tell me today, now here, how much money we have spent so far for this project since 2008, it is said that on 25 April we have given this legal basis, and until today, when the Government has observed that it is not possible to do so, there is probably something well done in this time period. And finally, where did they ensure that this project will really come to life by the time you insist on it? I'm missing a more detailed assignment with the government. Each task should have a responsible person and not only a deadline, but also a transfer and request for a second period of time for that period, but also an actual responsible person who would respond not only by his/her position, but also by his/her place of work if something is not done. Today we place this in another time dimension, but there is no responsibility. I'd like you to answer these two questions. Who will be responsible if this is not done on 1 May 2009? Why can't you do what needs to be done by May 2010? But first of all, I want to know how much money we've spent on this and how many people are "passing" at home on this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The matter we are talking about, or the provisions of the law we are talking about, is part of a package of so-called elimination of administrative obstacles in this country. Just remember the period, six, seven years ago, how long some of the procedures in administrative units, ministries and elsewhere have lasted. Also because officials sent citizens from window to window. At Window A, you had to obtain, say, a travel document, and an official sent you to Window B for a birth certificate so that you could get a passport. It's just like an example. All of this was the case for the time of the previous government in a package of so-called administrative removal obstacles. And this law was also passed during the previous government with the aim of simplifying the procedures for obtaining permits or things relating to the land book. I remember, of course, every meeting of the previous government, at which Minister Virant played an important role in the consideration of every law relating to this issue of removing administrative obstacles. Of course, I couldn't exactly say that the current government is entirely to blame, because time has been a little bit higher in our country, but it is happening in our country that individual ministries, individual services within ministries know exactly what kind of law has been passed and it is past the year, that it takes two years if such a transitional provision is of course and nothing is done. You just don't do anything. Then the minister is forced to bring into Parliament a law that we are now considering, and of course we are happy to say, "Yes, no, no, no, no, no, we are going to extend the deadline." This can also happen in 2010, 2011 - depending on what we accept, whether amendment or not - even on this matter. Hypothetically, of course, I'm asking one question. If this Parliament adopts a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act and there says that the penalty for traffic offences is, say, a speedy ride, such as one. What we will do if something 10 or 100,000 signatures are inserted into this Parliament, the citizens will say, "Yes, you know, we're not ready to drive 50 kilometers an hour on 1 May, but we'd still be driving 60 kilometers an hour." Or will we also listen to 100,000 citizens say: "Would we not extend this deadline a little longer to prepare the citizens? After all, we are doing the same now because a group of people in some ministry have not done their job. And it's probably a smaller group of people, and there could have been other reasons. And we're changing the law. I'm asking if we're going to drive for 100,000 citizens who are going to say that we're going to drive 60 miles an hour, not 50 kilometers an hour. In short, it seems to me that this is the case, but I am not just thinking about the Ministry of Justice right now, I am speaking very in principle, because we are probably going to be in a very similar law. For this reason, I would say that it is imperative for each minister of each government to propose such laws as are enforceable. This is, at the start, to ensure the conditions for the implementation of these laws and that people who are obliged to carry out individual procedures, in this case the Information Centre at the Ministry of Justice, also find out that we will not postpone this thing from today to tomorrow, from tomorrow to tomorrow, and people will jump from window to window. That's not good, and we should have it in front of us when we press the keys for or against. That is why we have also proposed the amendment that we are talking about, and we are convinced that only 15 months, virtually until 1 May 2010, is enough to bring these procedures together and it is not necessary to provide such a large reserve, which is practically now nearly 27 months long. That this matter should probably be done sooner, I'm sure of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Is there still a wish? I'm giving you time to report. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, things can be discussed from different angles, the question is whether these angles are comparable and adequately set. It is a matter of amending the law and setting a time limit within which the Government envisages normally necessary time for the procedures provided for in another law to be carried out. And I find it rude to compare this matter with, say, the Road Traffic Safety Act and what would be good and what would not be good from the point of view of people. I would expect then to ask what would happen if 100,000 citizens and citizens of Slovenia collected signatures and said that we did not need the Land Book Act. This would then be an appropriate comparison of this. With regard to the appropriateness of the deadlines laid down, however, it must first be asked whether the laws we adopted in the previous term were laid down in such a way that they were also feasible at that time. And a lot of things will have to be done, unfortunately, by this government to correct because the solutions have been underthinked, and of course we will always be able to see that we do not accept certain things. I think that all the things that have been adopted in the legislation so that they cannot be implemented within the time limit or within the prescribed time limit should be extended to a period that will allow the law to be feasible and enforceable. The problem in a number of cases is that we have legal provisions that are good, but unfortunately they are not being implemented. And this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is one of those that allows us to discuss who is responsible for what and who puts what as a priority. Once again, talking about changing what's good for citizens and citizens, and we're so ugly in the coalition that we don't want to see it, it's a simple deception because it's unreal. What benefit citizens and citizens will be able to enjoy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u26	Your Honor! The assessment of when it is possible to bring a technical application to life is indeed an extremely professional question; I do not see any conflicts of interest here. In the end, the administrative workers themselves will have a great relief and help in their daily work. We are all users at the end of these services. In every matter you already see the theory of conspiracy, and this on purely technical issues. You know, this constant emphasis may also take credibility on these cases, but they do have backgrounds, if there is talk of conspiracy all over the place, of bad intentions, of who is behind the person who has the interests here. We take credibility with this. We have professional institutions for this: the Centre for Court Information, the Ministry of Justice. I think they are competent to determine the hands, when it is possible to perform something, when technical applications are possible, not that we are laying hands on politicians.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much again. Your Honor! What was the intention of this law, which Minister Šturm submitted, and which was adopted in this House, is the intention or solutions that are important to citizens. They are also important for students who accompany those who will one day solve their own affairs. And now we are listening here to the fact that the government is stalling here, absolutely stalling and, once again, insisting, is stalling because it advocates that as long as possible there is disorder on the land book, fog, swamps, and in this swamp, your lawyers, who today, by law, will then be on the same page, support and give them again those powers and those tariffs that Minister Sturm has abolished. Those in this fog are better placed than citizens or students who don't have the money to pay their lawyers. And Mrs. Potter used to say that our laws are unfulfilled. Mr Šurm, Minister, has enforced the Notariat Act, reduced tariffs and your parliamentary groups have said that it is impossible for notaries to fail. The students are now cheaper to certify certificates thanks to the previous government and Minister Sturm, who have been flung under his feet in every way possible. The current Minister of Zalar, too. So I'm not surprised he's not here because he's a little cold in the eyes of Minister Sturm. And these practical solutions are not of interest to the current authorities. You've got backs elsewhere than us, which we've had in ordinary citizens. And that's why everything was made to make these practical solutions, so that people from home could invest land books, that they didn't have to go to that exact court to put it on as late as possible, never on holy ground. That is why I absolutely do not accept the debate of Mrs Potrate, who is talking about non-reality. This can be practical, and there is also a component of the European Council that requires such things, and we must be aware of that. However, if there is no political interest, nothing is realistic. Last year, I realized that we got extra money for the school in Macola and that the investment started. Ms. Potrata walked around the Makolahs, promised as president of the Education Committee that this year the investment would continue [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u29	Mr Jerovšek [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u30	It's yesterday. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u31	Mr Jerovšek, I know that there is no hope, only kindly please discuss the amendment, not everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u32	This is related to this and the current authorities do not accept any objective responsibility for their conduct. That's also the problem. They do everything that is against the interests of some average citizen, but they are guilty of others. I'm talking about this when it's said that there's no technical possibility that this is, I don't know, so difficult. It is an interest, I also know that now the other companies involved in this information technology will take into account the contracts so that the new Ultras will enter into the processes. This objective responsibility - no one will answer. As Mr. Resident says he knew about the massacres, he's not guilty. Of course he's guilty if he's covering up crimes, of course he's guilty by law. Therefore, from the Justice Ministry, we should be aware of the Institute of Objective Responsibility, of the interests of citizens and do everything possible to bring such things to life, to prevent citizens from always being harmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-welcome present, government services, colleagues and colleagues! I believe that everyone has a view of how certain things can be resolved. The speed of dealing with these matters, in particular the resolution of technical deficiencies or adaptation, depends also on the different locations. Today's law, which is passed or supplemented by the Land Book Act, understands clearly that some things are adapting to the real state, because at the stage of the adoption of the original law they simply did not have sufficient technical knowledge and not information on how and how this law could be implemented. I think it is certainly necessary to welcome the view of Comrade Gorenak, who sees in every matter how and how administrative obstacles would be addressed. I think that this and today's solution, which has been proposed, is actually on the right track and on the right path, how and how citizens and citizens will actually come from every city and space and the land book will also be accessible to them electronically. If it is in our interest to make this possible, I think it is right that this law and the amendments to this law should be adopted and that we try to see the light on the table in the texts we get, not only bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u35	Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I am very pleased to say that you have recognized the good intentions of my previous debate, even though I see that your colleague has seen some evil in my debate. I'd say that. It's hard to agree. My debate went, I think in a positive direction, to the Secretary of State, who didn't write anything because I felt he had nothing to say about it. That's how I figured it out. Look, there's one thing, it's very difficult to agree with, we're talking about the Ministry of Justice's IT centre now, it's very difficult to agree that there will always be government officials in any ministry that will make a competent, clear and responsible decision when they can do something. Then we don't need ministers. We need ministers, and the management in ministries, whatever, past or present government, will force these officials to act under objective circumstances, while providing material and other conditions. Because after all, if you always ask officials whether you would do it, they'll find a thousand and one reason not to do it until one day. That's what I think we need to keep an eye on. Of course, that comparison with hundreds of thousands of people for my terms was a real comparison, because, after all, every citizen is important, and 100,000 more, because, finally, if I gave a slightly different comparison, I could say otherwise that 100,000 citizens would decide to say, "I have a little pay, and I will pay a little less for road traffic offences, and now let you vote it in Parliament. These are things that are not good, and our amendment is nothing bad, our amendment is in this context that we want from the Ministry of Justice to simply accelerate. If you ask only officials at the Information Centre, they will say that even in 2014 it is not possible. However, if you take them in, ensure their terms and conditions, it will also be possible in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Skrlec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Maybe some further clarifications from the government after all. This law, which is before you today, is not your wish and does not arise at the request of the Ministry of Justice or the Government as such from your own inclinations. It is simply that the Centre for Informatics, which operates at the Supreme Court and at the Ministry of Justice, has simply shown that the implementation of such a project is not possible until 1 May this year. The Earth Book, I cannot agree with the assessment that this is some sort of "wetlands" that is out of order. This is a fundamental record to identify one of the constitutionally guaranteed rights, this is property rights. The Earth's book is very neat and clear, and certainly we must not interfere with such an instrument with thoughtless or incomplete information solutions. In this regard, it is also necessary to state that the Supreme Court did not meet the deadlines last year, and it was bound by the six laws which all imposed the introduction of new technological solutions. Let me mention just two of these again. These are: enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument, where a special section is established at the District Court in Ljubljana, which is the central department for the whole country, where the entire enforcement is carried out electronically and electronically on the basis of an authentic instrument. Another such solution, which in practice took two years of work during the previous term, when I believe that they have worked with full force by summarizing the words of Mr Gorenak, which somehow indicates that users themselves do not have sufficient motivation for such solutions. It took two years to establish an electronic application for a court registry. The Court Register, which is something similar for legal persons and businesses such as the Land Book for Property Rights, makes the difference that deposits in the Land Book are no longer appropriate, since any natural person can own property and is often the property owner. It should therefore be pointed out that in the past period all the capacities of the Supreme Court have been occupied with all these projects. And if I answer a question from the Member of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, so far no money has been spent on this land book project. This project just didn't come up. This project has come to order now. And now it's working 100 percent, and that's why it takes time for this project to be implemented. However, I must say that the Government has not been performing its duties since the end of November, of course, and cannot be held accountable for everything that has been done before. These solutions, which we are proposing today to introduce later, or this law will not mean that all the solutions introduced by the Law on the Land Book adopted in the past will be reintroduced. We are not prejudiced to the right that notaries will be able to directly submit land-book proposals. That's what's left. We also do not interfere with the arrangements of the system, which allows automatic and automatic updating and updating of data between the disaster and the land book. This solution remains, too. We only intervene in those applications which, for technical reasons, are really unrealistic earlier than in two years. We are taught about this by the experience of successful projects from the past, which have shown that technical solutions to such an extent simply cannot be forced over a period of less than two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Can I find out that there's no more interest in the debate? Mr Jerovšek is still answering. Please, I will open the application for notification, but let's be collegiate with each other and report to each other - this time I do this for the fourth time and don't mind my assessment, everyone has a point of view, but Mr Škrlec has explained professional things. I am therefore opening applications for the opening of a notification to the debate. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to respond to the statement made by Mr Škrlec, the Secretary of State, which I have heard here, that the land book is very orderly; that is what you said. I can agree that it should have been that in the time of Mary Teresa was, but I don't want to praise Mary Teresa now, it was, and it was, long ago, that in the time of World War II anything she wanted could have been brought in, and that until now it has not been regulated. Yeah, listen, if the citizens listen to you, and the justice department says it's very arranged. I know some stories when citizens, including my colleagues, bought an apartment, paid in good faith, and now they're suing after a few years because he was another owner, because they didn't even buy from the right owner, and they're gonna lose all their assets. Is that the order of the land book? Don't spread them like that! Because of the irregularity of the land book, citizens have also lost their assets. That's where the cheats "belong" on the irregularity of the land book. And if you say that, you support these frauds, in fact, you support disorder, you support swamps, I say again. And I must say, there is some objective responsibility of the current minister who has been instructing judges how to strike, and the courts have a hand over the land book. You know, he was giving instructions on how to strike as successfully as possible, how to successfully oppose Minister Sturm, who was trying to make positive changes. Unfortunately, this is the reality. Such is the reality, and here you will have to accept this objective responsibility, the current authority and the current resources. It is not without objective responsibility, but many are also subjectively responsible for such a situation. We know about the personal connections between judges and people on land books, etc. It was a cover-up. If we take a two-year decision, it's a dead end. It is a deadlock for the non-regulation of the situation that the legal security of citizens will be postponed as long as possible so that it is not clear. I'm asking you where they should go, who's gonna pay the damages. Formal state, but through judicial proceedings, due to the irregularity of the land book. I personally know the case when a colleague bought an apartment, but now it turns out that there was total confusion in the land book, everything is wrong that that stranger is abroad and that he's going to get a hold of the apartment through the court, even though he paid. It's an order of the land book. That's not orderly, I'm sorry. It was supported by this disorder. Minister Storm and the previous government were the only ones who wanted order done here. But throwing pollen was so much and today's laws are actually throwing pollen at such trends. You can do this very sophisticatedly in order to preserve this swamp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Collaborators and associates! This change of law, of course, does not cheer anyone up, but reflects the present situation. I know that in recent years it has been customary to pass laws for them to be written on paper, but then they were not realistic. I will give you two examples - a warm student meal, a warm student meal - which was accepted and enforced, faced a situation where schools were not even able to provide such a meal and caused chaos and the search for temporary bad solutions. Or a point, VEM, Minister Virant, a great project and Mr Minister, when he did so, proudly announced that it would now be possible to set up a company within three to four days. Turns out it wasn't true because everything wasn't ready. The VEM can, of course, be set up in one day, but this is recorded in the Court Register for weeks, weeks and weeks. So bad preparation, bad foundation. The same applies to this law. As a result, this change only regulates the real situation. While the previous practice was to write something, it is only that, even if it is not true, it is now the custom to write what can really be accomplished. After all, we could write in the law that elephants fly in the air and still not fly in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I am confident that this government will arrange the land book as it should be, and that this arrangement will hold for some more than four years, just as it has held the many things that experts from the previous government have been preparing. Let me just mention the closing account, how excellent it was, and then we were playing bats to figure out that the plus is a minus and that the minus is not a plus and then in the end it was not clear to anyone what is what. Someone has said today, I think Mr Magajna, that the regulation of the land book must be left to experts and not politicians. I would be very happy if at this point we really let the experts arrange the land book for a long, long time, as many countries have arranged it for a long time and do not change it in their own image, or they do not change it as they think it would, for a certain period of time, just to be regulated. Today, I have heard so many untruths and so much nonsense in this House that it is no wonder that so low a level is accepted by our citizens when we talk about the land book we start talking about swamps, about postwar conditions, oh, I don't know what it is. You gentlemen must be tired of sitting in this House. And please be more original and say something smart so we can understand what you're saying. Not to talk about things that have nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I find with some optimism that there is no desire anymore. So, even though we've asked everyone to sign up earlier, you'd like to apply again. Check in. I'd ask you nicely if we could at least let the public know what we're discussing. We are discussing whether the information of the land book should be implemented a year earlier or a year later. We have so many different opinions about this. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u46	First of all, I'm not tired at all. I've been sitting here for 13 years. And even in the first year of my term, I discussed more than a colleague who told me so. So much for that. I wanted to respond to what my colleague Yuri said was different now. The former government had the intention of writing something that it doesn't hold, and now we write down what it holds. Mr. Yuri, what are you talking about? The reduced notary tariffs are maintained. And you're going to change them so they won't hold them up again. Reduced, some things could be held by lawyers' tariffs, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek this debate I have nothing to do with the date [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u48	There's, there's, there's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u49	the implementation of the Land Book. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u50	Your Member has made this clear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u51	I know that I warn you for free because you always violate the Rules of Procedure, just be more friendly with your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u52	Your emissary has read it. They're holding matters and they'd keep them here if Minister Sturm was still Minister. Well, you've convinced people that he may not have worked for them, but this government, and now they have consequences. The things we've put in this government's time, they hold what's right, but you're changing everything, I stress once again, you're changing everything, everything that's been positive for citizens, you're changing, you can't hold it, it's the intention of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you, Vice President. I'm answering without purpose to talk about post-war killings or anything, but I'm gonna stick to this darkness. I'm just asking what digitisation or informationation of the land book brings to those areas where there are many problems in registering parcels because the property situation was unclear. I'm talking about areas at the border where lots of plots and apartments are still not listed in the land book because of the complexity [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u55	Mr. Yuri, please, you haven't had time to report, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u56	All I'm interested in is the connection to information. Will that make it easier? [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u57	Mr. Yuri, please. Thank you very much. You've closed the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u58	If there's no answer, I'll be another way. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u59	Anybody else want some? I conclude the debate on the third amendment and the amendment to Article 3. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.10. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to eight. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Enforcement and Security, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jakob Preseknik. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Guid Kres, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, remain present. With this bill, we want to add a piece to the mosaic of social pressures and problems, which is particularly current in the current financial and economic crisis. Respectable. You have before you a proposal for a law proposing to supplement the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which proposes to supplement Article 101, which lists in the indents the benefits exempted from enforcement. We propose a supplement with two new indents, which would provide that benefits granted by aid to the necessary humanitarian organisations and institutions established in accordance with the laws governing their establishment are also exempted from enforcement. The aim of the law is to enable individuals to obtain assistance in distress, and to enable humanitarian organisations and institutions to achieve the objective of funding and other assistance. We want to help put out social distress and make it easier for us to survive, and that these targeted aids will not be subject to enforcement. This problem was highlighted by some humanitarian organisations that help with money and material, and later they found that such individuals could not apply the exemption under the third indent of Article 101 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance in order to remain such families or persons completely without the possibility of survival. The law is based on the principle that humanitarian organisations and institutions are autonomous and independent, independent in their decision-making to whom aid is granted, independent of the criteria set by the State for the granting of monetary or other social assistance. The purpose of the law is to exclude from enforcement the funds that contribute to the relief of social distress to individuals or families of the humanitarian organisation and the humanitarian institution, that is to say, to include in the exemption from enforcement all the funds they receive from such organisations. Although the general principle of taxation of all incomes is applicable to taxation of income and personal income, humanitarian contributions are exempt from tax, so the contributions of aid to the needy should also be exempt from enforcement. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a legal and social state. The enforcement of a court decision issued by any court should also be dealt with in the light of respect for human dignity and its fundamental right - the right to a dignified survival. At the meeting of the home committee, our proposal to exempt the benefits of humanitarian institutions from enforcement was not supported. The support received only the eleventh point of the amendment, so we have again tabled a supplement for the new twelfth point, which we have amended by setting a limit in line with the Government's opinion. We have defined, and more specifically, that only the benefits of humanitarian institutions working in the fields of education, education, health, children's, disability and social protection are excluded. We have proposed a shorter procedure for the adoption of the law, since it is a minor matter for the law to be supplemented. In line with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we have also amended the wording that it is now in accordance with the laws governing humanitarian organisations and institutions. On behalf of the applicants, I thank you in advance for your support, and I believe that today we will do a good job together, with the support of the amended law, to add this piece to the mosaic of assistance to those most needed. Let me remind you that even in the Slovenian People's Party, we take those government proposals, which they say are small, as part of the solution to the problems. I was taught, my old mother told me, a grain of cake, a stone on a palace stone. And I think that all these parts need to be correctly put into the story, and in this way we can go to the successful resolution of the problems that are here, will be, and I think we will also be successful in solving them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Kres. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, to present the views of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is 11. 3. 2009 treated as the parent working body of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. It's a law with a first-signed Mr. Intercessor. On 20 February, the College of the President of the National Assembly stipulated that the law would be dealt with in a reduced procedure. Members and members of the Committee had before us a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations, an opinion and an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an amendment of the SLS Group of Members of 3. 3. 2009 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups of Members of the SD, of 4 March 2009. Mr Preseknik, representative of the proposed bill's proponents, pointed out, in addition to his explanation, that the purpose of the law is to exclude from enforcement the benefits that individuals in distress receive from humanitarian organisations and charities. In presenting their written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposed text of the law's amendment were purely of a terminological nature and that they had no other comments. In presenting the Government's opinion on the proposal for a law, the representative of the Ministry of Justice stressed that the Government considers the objective pursued by the proposal of the law to be a good one and therefore the law as such supports and has amended it. The members of the committee expressed their support for the bill, taking into account the increasingly difficult social situation of a particular group of citizens and citizens, complementing the provisions of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance with new categories of benefits exempted from enforcement. In doing so, the majority of the members of the Committee supported the Government's substantively identical amendment and the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 1, which took into account the Government's conclusion that the inclusion of benefits from charitable establishments in benefits exempted from enforcement would be premature and too significant. The precise legal definition of benefits exempted from enforcement is therefore essential for the smooth implementation process, and the amendment of the Government and the coalition groups to Article 1 of the bill deleted the proposed 12th point, the receipts from the charitable institutions, and retained only the proposed 11th point, which is the remuneration of humanitarian organisations. The other members of the Committee expressed their support for the proposal for an amendment to the Committee proposed by the SLS Group, which retains the proposed text of the amendment to the new 11th and 12th paragraphs, with a more terminological design of their dictatorship. The Committee adopted the amendment of the Government and the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted both articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law already included in the amendment which we have adopted under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the amendment of the coalition. However, you have received an updated proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Government's opening position on the bill will be presented by State Secretary Boštjan Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. As already stated by the President of the home labour force, the Government supports the new point added to Article 101 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which adds to the benefits exempted from enforcement the funds needed by humanitarian organisations operating under the law governing humanitarian organisations. With regard to the amendment to this proposal, the Government of this amendment does not support the addition of the financial resources provided by the charities. The basic idea itself is, of course, worth considering, but the Government is convinced that the introduction of such a broad, conceptually open term, i.e. the money provided by charities, is too risky at this time. It should be borne in mind that this is an enforcement procedure, a procedure followed by a legal enforcement address, which means that it is a procedure that protects the rights of the creditor and is primarily intended to protect the rights of creditors who, in the enforcement procedure, recover what the debtor owes them. However, with the exception introduced, there is a range of justified reasons why enforcement against a particular debtor or to a particular part of his property is not possible. For this reason, we believe that it would be dangerous for enforcement procedures to include an already so-called open qualification of exempted income, as this could significantly and significantly make it difficult to carry out enforcement procedures and complicate the identification of what is the property on which enforcement is permitted, which would, of course, be contrary to the spirit of the Enforcement Act, which I have said, mainly follows that the creditor can legally pay for its claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the law. The first position will be presented on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government. Members of the DeSUS are pleased to support the proposed amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. The Basic Law lays down the rules of procedure by which the court removes the compulsory enforcement of claims on the basis of enforceable titles and authentic documents. Among other things, a law with a number of provisions defines restrictions and exemptions or defines objects and benefits that are not subject to enforcement. Such provisions shall be designed to protect the debtor’s poor financial situation, i.e. to protect the existence of a minimum of the debtor whose assets are subject to interference. The enforcement of a payment of a monetary claim may, however, be a property right or a material right for each debtor, but if enforcement is not limited by law. Thus, the current legislation can also be cut down on the debtor's income received from humanitarian organisations. We all know that the latter are giving or donating money as well as items only to those who are in need of assistance, that is, to those for whom we will certainly support the novel, for whom this kind of money is exempt from enforcement. For we believe that the current arrangement, which also allows an intervention on the funds donated, is simply to satisfy the basic needs of the debtor and his family, is not appropriate. The major, financial and economic crises have also hit our country, and all the data shows that the worst consequences of the crisis are yet to come. Unemployment is increasing, and an increasing percentage of poverty is also one of the preachers. The survival of many has begun, but fortunately only occasionally they receive the assistance of charities and humanitarian organizations to break through, not from month to month, but to break through, day to day. It is therefore only fair that the contributions of these organisations are excluded from enforcement and therefore we support such a solution. However, only the latter is not enough to enable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to live a life worth living. More effective measures will be needed to protect our citizens from economic misery, regardless of the reason why they can be found in it. One of the measures is also a one-off supplement, which we also advocate for Members of the DeSUS, not only for pensioners, but for all those who are socially at risk. In short, we support the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance of Members of the DeSUS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. I apologize to the Slovenian National Party for missing them. Would you like a word first? Mr Silven Majhenič then has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Excuse me. Mr. Sylven Tiny, you have the floor. Mr. Guido Kres, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! The increasingly difficult social situation in our society in some way puts more and more people in a difficult and hopeless situation. The number of unemployed is increasing, according to the latest data, by 11,000, which should sober us up. Managers' games and apricots have produced a global economic crisis, but it is increasing. Economists speak a language that most people do not understand. Their words are so professional that you don't know if they're meant for the average citizen or for him. However, the crisis of a small man deepens, especially when he is in the process of execution. It is therefore right that the Ministry of Justice has responded and has announced better times in the field of executions that are in line in the first place. Slovenian courts spend 63% of their effective working time on enforcement procedures. Therefore, one of the priorities must be the radical renewal of the execution system. Of course, this must also improve the situation of craftsmen and small and medium-sized enterprises. Following the proposed addition of Article 101 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, as well as to a small person, the benefits of money and social assistance would be excluded, which is of course logical. For it would not be right to take away what in some way enables him to survive. There are still some of these matters that enforcement should not touch and should be enshrined in the law so that poverty does not deepen. The wealth of the rich should not be increased on the shoulders of the poor, who are pushed into even greater poverty by various executions. It is true that "there is nothing left for the army to take away", but in the Slovenian National Party we hope that this law will ensure security and a decent life for man, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. One more apology, Mr. Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The rest of you are present. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the draft law before us, as well as the proposal for an additional amendment for the new twelfth indent. By supplementing both the new 11th indent of Article 101 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and the 12th paragraph, we will determine what should already be laid down in the Act in question. Slovenians are known for their charity. In the last decade, many new humanitarian organisations and institutions have been established in Slovenia. It is right that the assistance we provide to the needy achieves the right purpose. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are convinced that it is necessary to provide that the funds or benefits that are allocated to humanitarian organisations or institutions are indeed exempt from this legislation and that this is also regulated as it should be. It is particularly important that humanitarian funds reach their goal, enable the poorest or otherwise affected to survive, and it is unacceptable that such funds become the subject of enforcement. So we'll support the amendment. And as I have already pointed out in my explanation, we have been reminded of this precisely by these humanitarian organizations that are helping in these tribulations. Well, it turns out here, too, that we couldn't have said more papal than the pope, because, as is known, somewhere on the human and moral level, we somehow solved this and avoided this applicable law. However, it is easier to work if the matter is arranged, written down, and you know exactly how you work and you don't have to be afraid that someone with theirs can even make things worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members, Mr Secretary and of course guests on the balcony! The Social Democrats' Group supports the proposer's intention to include in the remuneration exempted from enforcement, such as monetary social assistance benefits under the law governing social protection, child allowance benefits, child care allowance and assistance for newborns, grants and grants to students and students, also the money provided by humanitarian aid organisations to those in need. For the common denominator of all these benefits exempted from enforcement is that they are not basic benefits such as salaries and pensions, but are supplements, as a rule, lower benefits that beneficiaries receive to meet certain needs and are mostly social remedies. If these benefits could be subject to enforcement without limitation, their social security correction would be null and void. We have tabled a proposal from the coalition parliamentary groups following the Government's opinion and adopted it on the home working body. Such a complementary proposal includes humanitarian organisations, but not all other charitable organisations, as proposed by the proposed amendment to the law. In our opinion, the motion for the amendment of the law has set the solution too wide, as the Government has also pointed out in its opinion. In doing so, the Government has announced a complementary proposal for a law providing for more extensive system-wide changes and arrangements for enforcement and insurance. The working group appointed by the Minister of Justice to draft the draft law on the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, including experts in the field of civil procedural law, will follow the improvement of enforcement procedures and the upgrading of the enforcement system, with a view to achieving greater financial discipline and the protection of creditors in the enforcement process. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are interested in preparing optimal solutions that will be particularly acceptable to those who need help. To this end, we support the Government, although we are aware that it will take a little longer and a wider public debate on the working body. We will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Dear Member, honourable Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we certainly support the proposed amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which was put into the legislative process by the Slovenian People's Party. We support the proposal for the amendment of the law in particular, because the aim of the law is clear, this is to enable an individual to ensure that aid obtained in distress by humanitarian organisations will no longer be subject to enforcement and that these funds and other assistance from these humanitarian organisations will achieve their purpose. In today's situation, Slovenia, where I am sorry, is increasing the number of people who lose jobs every day due to the slow action of the government of Borut Pohorje. And of course, at high speed, the number of the poorest increases. It is therefore totally unacceptable that, yesterday, when we talked about the specific part of the budget's rebalancing, not a single amendment was adopted by the opposition itself, which would improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups that are at such a time today. The fact is that today even minimum wages are no longer sufficient to ensure survival, and in addition to social assistance, individuals also need assistance from humanitarian organisations. The fact is that the country should promote humanitarian activity, volunteering and a personal initiative to help people in distress. When such dedicated funds are included in the implementation base, of course, efforts to alleviate the distress and improve the situation of the weakest and most vulnerable will be eliminated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support solutions that enable individuals to ensure that aid obtained in distress by humanitarian organisations is not subject to enforcement and that funds and other aid from humanitarian organisations reach their purpose. We are, of course, aware that at the same time there may be potential for abuse in cases of enforcement proposals when the solution is proposed. We express our conviction that such a solution will not represent circuits or bypasses in enforcement procedures. At the same time, we are confident that the proposed solution will truly be in favour of and assistance to the most vulnerable and socially weak individuals in difficult situations, especially in the current period when we face daily news of an increase in the number of unemployed. Finally, let me add that, of course, as already on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which is significantly broader than that proposed by the coalition on the Internal Policy Committee, but more so later. In short, we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of Members, we will certainly confirm the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance because it is an instrument or supplement that will improve and ensure the social status of those in such a situation, that it is necessary to take care of every cent they have at their disposal, and that the time we live is certainly very unfriendly to these groups. Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a social and legal state and that is why every step should be taken to ensure that it is a social one. The time we live in this severe crisis has certainly affected the most precisely the weak layers in our society. It is therefore right that this amendment protects those funds that individuals receive from humanitarian institutions, organisations, and that it is also a place for us to thank, from Parliament, and congratulate all those who work in humanitarian organisations that contribute in their work to those who are in need of assistance. Those who do so do not share in ours and yours and in the left and right, but see only the goal or first the distress of individuals, and then the goal of alleviating this tribulation. Hence, it is not appropriate for a person to sit down or carry them away on such funds. During this time, we are also the mayors in some way in shock that we are double officials, both MPs and mayors, but I am sure that it is the mayors, who are also Members, that we feel the most distress of people. We know that everyone who is in distress first turns to the congregation as a local community and that from there also opens doors to other humanitarian organizations and that this connection with people is very important. And it is surprising, therefore, that these hardships can also be exploited for political purposes, for populist purposes, which we listened to yesterday when we adopted the balance, which even today we listened to when we presented the views of individual groups. In the face of people's hardship, it is neither right nor wrong to make a policy to propose old people who are like them and who are practically offering money to those who need it so much on the palm of their hands, but they are destroying public finances that can endanger the system that the state has to provide, that is, stable finances. And that is why such opposition moves are also normal, logical and understandable, but in times of as severe a crisis as we are living today, in my opinion, unacceptable or suggest that it is more of an interest to gain points, even though on a topic such as social, otherwise there would not be as much satisfaction among individuals as the percentages of the new unemployed, and they do not realize that individuals, their families' tragedies, their children's plight, are hiding behind their pleasure, and the worst part is that they are already in kindergartens and primary schools. That is why I think that this amendment, this amendment, is good or absolutely necessary to protect these most vulnerable members of our society. And I am also sure that this is what all kinds of humanitarian organisations are meant to do, and that even as a result of the follow-up, there will not be a resurgence of division, who is more humane and who is less humane in this House. I am confident that this amendment will be supported by all those who will vote today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party has been tabled under Article 1 of the Act, we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 26. 3. 2009 Anyone want a word about the article and the amendment? I'm opening applications for discussion. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to point out that at the 12th point we added additionally after the talks and reconciliations it is said that the 12th point was first of all: "Money aid to the needy, provided by the charitable institutions whose establishment and operation is in accordance with the law governing the institutions," and then we added, "and are set up for the purposes of education and education, health, children's, disability and social protection." [[...]] I would like to point out that it would be wise to settle this today, because I think that this way we will make this situation definitively as is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that again. I said before, when I was representing the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we would certainly support this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. I think that such an amendment, which has been a little wider on the Committee, should already be supported by the Internal Policy Committee, but unfortunately only an amendment of the coalition, which has a majority in this Committee, has been adopted and does not, of course, cover benefits from charitable institutions and is therefore substantially narrower by its content. Today, we have before us an amendment that says that we should also exclude from enforcement those institutions that allocate money and are set up for education and education purposes, in the field of health, child care, disability and social protection. Certainly, these organizations are, in addition to humanitarian institutions, those that alleviate social distress for families and individuals, even today, when the number on one side of those who lose their jobs is increasing, while the number of those who are the poorest is increasing and they need even more help. I believe that today, everyone sitting here in the National Assembly should be given the priority of helping in this period of crisis with all possible ways and measures to all those who are socially and economically most at risk. That is why we will certainly support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I expect this time the coalition to act more responsibly, in this sense prudently, and will help those most vulnerable and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In any case, we will support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party. This is because there would also be no such and other abuses as we see in our society all the time and in fact in all areas. During this financial and economic crisis, which surrounds us, unfortunately, there will be and already there will be the forgiveness of workers who will try to find solutions in their own way from a difficult situation. We probably all agree that there will be a need to help these people, but the government or the state will certainly have to play a key role. However, we must not ignore the important role of humanitarian organisations, which are very responsible in carrying out their mission. A mission that will be very important in these times, which is actually being observed in those days, when all the media report daily that the supplies of aid to these humanitarian organisations have actually gone and that the warehouses are empty. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we call on the Government to consider helping these humanitarian organisations and to help them. Let this Act on the Supplementation of the Law on the Enforcement and Insurance of Stones in Mosaic be to facilitate the operation of humanitarian organisations. The purpose of the implementation is to exclude the resources that contribute to the relief of social distress for individuals or families of the humanitarian organization in order to include this in the exemption of enforcement, i.e. all these resources, we feel that it is necessary and necessary. Therefore, honourable Members, let us help the needy this time and support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As I have already said in my opening presentation, the Government does not, in principle, reject this second amendment in the form of a 12th point, which introduces funds coming from institutions. It does not reject as an idea, it rejects only the amendment which has been tabled at this stage of the procedure and which we estimate is too urgent at this point. We believe that this opens the door, as I have already said, to delay enforcement procedures, which, of course, threatens creditors who can also be socially threatened. It is not excluded that even weaker layers, economically weaker layers do not exercise their rights and do not participate in enforcement proceedings on the part of the creditor and not only on the part of the debtor. However, in this regard, I would also stress one purely logical discrepancy arising from the existing amendment on this 12th point. In fact, the existing amendment, as it is now presented, I am talking about the 12th point, i.e. revenue from institutions, this text speaks of money being exempted if provided by charitable institutions, and then, "which institutions are in accordance with the law and operate for the purposes of education, education, health, children's, disability and social protection." The problem is that the Law on Institutions separates two kinds of institutions. Some are generally useful, while others are charitable. There's a speech in this amendment about charity institutions, and then there's what institutions they're supposed to be. The problem is that those listed in the amendment are generally useful and not charitable. So, the matter is also legally problematic. This simply proves that it is probably not good at this stage to be so hasty with the introduction of this category into the law. I would like to stress that the Law on Enforcement and Security is a higher priority of this government in the field of justice. This law is open and for the radical renewal of this law and for the substantial simplification and acceleration of enforcement procedures, a special working group consisting of mixed experts is established. And this working group will also examine this idea that we have before us today. Because, as I said before, the idea is not such as to be removed by a wave of hand. It's a good idea, but it requires a lot of caution in the formulation and in the introduction of the law. Therefore, the Government reiterates that this part of the amendment does not support but will, in a substantive sense, examine this solution and certainly include it in the consideration of the new law on the enforcement procedure or on the reform that is a priority in the Government's work programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the Assembly today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers - Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Please. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u86	Mr President, this is an extremely important and courageous law in which Mr Minister, while still in position, was extremely involved. The sublimation of the solution, which is now in force, was one of his political projects and I think it is politically hygienic to also represent solutions that are going the other way here. I know that Mr. Secretary of State corresponds [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u87	Mr Jerovšek, I beg you not to abuse the authority you have. Mr Jerovšek, you know that the Government can be represented by a minister or a secretary of state.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u88	I know, I know, but there's also political hygiene.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u89	Political hygiene is not referred to in the procedural proposal. Your procedural proposal is incorrect, so I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u90	Allow me to conclude my procedural proposal. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Allow me to present a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers. The bill you have before you is a reflection of the urgent circumstances that have spurred and dictated quick action. The proposal introduces some news which I would like to present below. The first news is about representation. The law now in force provides that for the procedures under which representation is provided, under the official responsibility of criminal proceedings and the provision of free legal assistance, lawyers shall draw up specific lists on which those wishing to provide such services are included. The courts shall then appoint, in their judicial proceedings, lawyers on the basis of their official duties in criminal proceedings and for legal aid agents on the basis of free legal assistance, who are included on those lists. In practice, the introduction of this system has shown that there is a serious risk that these two institutions will not be able to be used in practice. In fact, the lawyers have linked themselves because they have been dissatisfied with the whole process of enacting the law now in force and, in particular, with the solutions that this law brings, and have therefore taken advantage of the possibility of agreeing to simply delete them from those lists. If that were the case, it would mean that the courts in criminal cases where the proposed imposition of detention is, which means that criminal matters of the most serious nature and society are most dangerous, could not at all continue the proceedings. These problems are not merely theoretical, these problems are practical, the Ministry has been alerted immediately, at the beginning of the year, and immediate action and resolution of this problem have been needed. Now the bill before you solves this problem in such a way that it retains such lists, but in cases where the President of the competent court finds that there is no lawyer on the list or there is not enough lawyer to carry out such representation, that is to say, defending under official responsibility in criminal proceedings or representing under the Law on free legal assistance, he may appoint any lawyer after the alphabetical list of those who are registered in the Register of Lawyers in the field of a particular court. This means that it is in fact ensured that the courts will be able to act in these circumstances and that all those who are entitled to free legal aid or to an advocate under an official duty under the law will be able to receive these defences and that the judicial proceedings may proceed smoothly. Another novelty brought by this law is the filling of the legal gap created in the area of legal liability insurance. In fact, the law in force left a semi-annual legal void on the issue of compulsory insurance for lawyers, since it did not provide for this obligation from the middle of this year. This situation is very serious and can be of particular concern to citizens who have received legal aid. For if the lawyer does not have secured liability and because of his or her inappropriate conduct, the client is, of course, left to himself and has no guarantee that the damage will also be reimbursed. For this reason, the proposal, which is now in law to introduce a collective obligation to provide for all lawyers and, on the other hand, the obligation of insurance undertakings to conclude such insurance. In fact, it was not a rare case when insurance companies with lawyers did not even want to make insurance. This duty must therefore be imposed as a duty. It is also important that changes in disciplinary procedures to which the Ombudsman is now a guardian for many years have been alerting. Indeed, this procedure was too exclusive in the field of lawyers and was therefore ineffective. The current law brings a series of innovations that will speed up and make this disciplinary process more effective. So much for an introduction by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. At its 8th meeting, on 20 March, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers submitted by the Government. The college has decided that we will deal with the law in an urgent way. The Committee on Internal Policy had at its disposal the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council, which was also informed by the letter from the Council of Justice. The representative of the applicants said in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the purpose of the proposed law and its consideration following an urgent procedure is to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State caused by the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. The lawyers object to the intervention in the organisational, financial, functional autonomy and independence of the legal profession provided by the State, in their view. The proposed law proposes the following more important solutions: ensuring that advocates are represented on an official basis and lawyers who provide free legal aid services, insurance for professional liability, legal tariffs, disciplinary procedure and some minor details. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service were taken into account in the amendments tabled. The representative of the Bar Association agreed with the emphasis of the bill's proposer. The members and members of the committee generally supported the proposed law in the debate, as they considered that the adoption of the previous two laws, the law on lawyering and the legal tariff had negative consequences for legal certainty and that the proposed law regulated. The opposition Members, I must stress this in particular, have strongly opposed this because they believe that the actual reason for the proposed amendments is not in the legal protection of the individual, but in the cooperation of the interests of the lawyer's lobby, which, after the two laws currently in force, deserves little. The Committee has adopted an amendment. The amendment is the coalition amendment, the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS to Articles 1, 2, 10 and 11A to New Article 11, and Articles 12 and 17. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 and did not vote on the amendments of the Fourth Amendment Group to Article 1 and the three amendments to Article 5, Article 10, since the amendments of the coalition groups have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, he also drafted the text of the amended law, which includes all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u95	Mr President! Dear Mr. Secretary! Your Honors are here! Amendment of the Law on Lawyering is necessary, as it will ensure the smooth work of the courts when it comes to representing a lawyer on an official basis, but not on an urgent basis and with a different content. The practice so far shows that certain lawyers have avoided representation under official duties. Why, they know best for themselves, of course, and so do all of us who are not foreign lawyers. In order to ensure the smooth progress of the debates, it is necessary to draw up a list of lawyers by law offices and not by alphabetical order, as proposed, and not by freely deciding individuals. Why the offices? So that the review will be clearer and there will be no misunderstandings between lawyers. The protection of legal professional responsibility is essential as this will also ensure greater protection of the rights of the parties in the event of liability. We don't think it's a good idea for the Bar to co-judge on legal tariffs. However, it might indicate that the Bar is a proponent of legal tariffs. The Minister of Justice, who is supposed to be the one who watches over tariffs, does not seem to us to be the best guarantee that tariffs will not be exaggerated, as it is the same as letting the wolf watch over the sheep. We cannot support such a bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are, to say the least, appalled at how it joined the amendment of the Law on Lawyerry. There's no need for change, except for an emergency procedure. There is an impression of some difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. Let's see why there's even been a shortage of lawyers on the list for official representation. The news that the lawyer can decide whether he will be included in the list of lawyers representing the parties under official responsibility would not be problematic if, for some reason, the so-called legal features of this organisation were not challenged by his fellow lawyers who were not included in these lists, which is the smell of blackmail. The law adopted in the previous term was by no means directed against lawyers, as is often heard in the public eye, but was adopted in order to improve the legal security of citizens, to improve the effectiveness of the defence and, as a consequence, to ensure the effectiveness of judicial proceedings. We supported the previous amendment of the law in order to improve the very effectiveness of the work of disciplinary bodies in deciding on the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, lawyers and trainees. The Ministry of Justice has received numerous comments on the work of lawyers and we agreed that the whole disciplinary process should be regulated more precisely and effectively in order to change the composition of disciplinary commissions, applicants for disciplinary proceedings and complainants. Why does he want to change? Why is it so urgent that even the Council of Justice could not give an opinion on the bill? Perhaps because the Law on Lawyering, which is now in force, has reorganized the setting of a legal tariff? Is that what's bothering lawyers the most? What do citizens think? We have adopted different tariffs to ensure that all citizens in need of legal assistance are given equal opportunities for legal protection. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it seems very important to us that quality legal aid comes to those who have low incomes, even in these times of crisis, when such people are increasing. Should we take away their right to quality legal protection? Why? In honor of the lawyers? As far as I know, everyone's doing very well. And let these gentlemen also ask themselves and think that they could have been trained in this system of ours, that all taxpayers also contributed to their education. Tell me, for example, a lawyer whose law firm has been failing lately. Tell me how today's crisis feels in the bar. Perhaps they have only more work to do and, as a result, an even greater gain. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we really wonder why we would change the system, which also makes people with lower income more approach to legal services; therefore, a system that is better for citizens and citizens. In this proposal for a law, it seems welcome to us only to introduce a test and knowledge of the Law on Lawyers, a legal tariff, and in particular a knowledge of legal ethics. And speaking of ethics, let me mention this. The results of the 2008 corruption survey came to the public yesterday. The most corruption, according to the participants in the research, is in the legal and notary species, followed by doctors, inspectors and police officers. If we were to at least try to convince us that you are solving this issue by amending the Law on Lawyers, this proposal might be supported. Thus, we will not support this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because we believe that it is not necessary and is not proposed for the benefit of citizens and citizens, especially those who are most affected by today's crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u99	Mr Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia notes that the Law on the Complementation of the Law on Lawyers must be adopted, the law in force has in fact caused some confusion or has failed to address some things. The proposed amendment seeks to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of a country which would have occurred if due to the absence of lawyers it would not have been possible to carry out appropriate procedural actions in pre-law or legal criminal proceedings. This is particularly true in the case of so-called detention cases where the court is not at all able to impose detentions if the presence of a lawyer is not ensured. The current Law on Lawyers provides that lawyers or lawyers who have already entered into the law on the date of entry into force of the last amendment must enter into a register of lawyers or a court register within one year of the entry into force of the Law on Lawyers. In the interim period, i.e. from 25. 1. 2009 when the collective insurance expired, up to 30. 6. 2009 lawyers and law firms are not to be protected, which means that the parties are unprotected during this period, since the insurance company will not be liable for the damage that a lawyer who is not insured may cause. The consequences of the overall reduction of legal awards under the applicable law on legal tariffs have not only affected lawyers, but also their clients in particular, as they discourage lawyers for the quality provision of free legal aid services and the defence of official duties. This improves the legal position of the assets of the weak parties who are entitled to free legal aid and the parties to whom the compulsory legal representation is granted. The proposal allows for the smooth implementation of the institutions of representation under official responsibility and the provision of free legal assistance services. In the event that the President of the competent court finds that the list of operators of the two institutes on which the lawyer may be designated by his own will is insufficient, the court of counsel shall determine by alphabetical order of all the lawyers entered in the catalogue of lawyers constituting the district council organised in the territory of the district court. In this case, the lawyer shall take over the representation unless there is a reason why the representation must be refused. A system of collective insurance of legal liability is being re-established through the Housing Association of Lawyers. It is also important to inform insurance undertakings of their obligation to make the insurance provided for in this Title. In practice, there have been cases where insurance undertakings have concluded professional liability insurance. The Board of Counsel as a stand-alone organisation shall be restored to the powers of co-decision to establish appropriate relationships or evaluate individual legal services, taking into account the complexity and responsibility of individual tasks. The public interest will be safeguarded by consent to the tariff given by the Minister responsible for Justice before the adoption of the legal tariff at the Assembly of the Bar of Slovenia. The section on disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, lawyers and lawyers takes into account the recommendations and comments of the Ombudsman. The powers of those persons on whom the Disciplinary Prosecutor is required to initiate disciplinary proceedings shall be extended in such a way as to enable them to continue the disciplinary procedure themselves in the event that the Disciplinary Prosecutor withdraws from the disciplinary procedure and has the right to lodge a complaint against the discharge decision of the Disciplinary Commission. This is the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister responsible for justice. As an additional condition for the exercise of a legal profession, it is proposed to introduce a test and knowledge of the Law on Lawyers, Lawyers and Laws. The content and procedure of the test shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for the judiciary, and the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia shall have the right within 30 days of receipt of the notice to give an opinion on the content and procedure of the examination, because of the need to adopt a new law on legal representation. That is exactly how we support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u101	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all of us who have gathered today at this point. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery, prepared by the Government and put into consideration in the National Assembly by emergency procedure. The Government, through the proposed amendment of the law, seeks to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State which is emerging when due to the absence of lawyers it is not possible to carry out appropriate procedural actions in the prescribing and criminal proceedings, in particular in the so-called detention cases, when the courts cannot order detentions unless the presence of a lawyer is ensured. Other matters, including the implementation of free legal aid, are also important. These hard-to-repar consequences were the result of the amendment to the Law on Lawyers, which was adopted by the National Assembly in the first half of 2008. This novel, which was the main consideration of the previous government's discipline of attorneys, we have opposed and warned of unconstitutional and irrational solutions in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. This was also pointed out by the professional public, and then the State Council voted veto. It has therefore been shown that the amendment of the Law on Lawyers in May 2008 resulted in a legal void and that in the first six months of this year there was a period when lawyers and lawyers were not obliged to protect themselves. This means, however, that the parties are largely unprotected during this period, since the insurance undertaking is not responsible for the damage that an uninsured lawyer may have caused during this period. The solutions that I am sure we will accept today will remove this legal void, and solutions will also follow in the constitution of the stated principle that lawyers are a self-serving and independent service governed by law. It's not just lawyers, it's lawyers. It's mostly clients. Therefore, interference with the independence of the lawyer means interference with the rights, benefits and interests of the parties. The amendment also follows the principle of effective protection of public benefits, protection of the rights of parties in relation to a lawyer or a legal society, protection of the constitutional right to judicial protection, protection of socially disadvantaged persons and protection of greater efficiency in disciplinary proceedings. The proposed solutions provide for representation, establish a collective insurance system for legal liability through the bar association of lawyers and re-regulation of the counter-high-speed liability of insurance undertakings in the form of professional liability insurance. Last but not least, the Chamber of Counsel shall have the power to evaluate the lawyer's work by protecting the public interest in such a way that the Minister responsible for justice has to give the tariff prior to the adoption of the legal tariff. With the amendments tabled by the SD Members and Members of Parliament, together with the coalition partners, we have followed the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, and we will therefore support the proposal for a new law on lawyering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, I already oppose or oppose at the start, but of course we have no special influence, the procedure, this is an urgent procedure. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that "for the sake of the security interests of the defence of the State, the elimination of natural and other disasters" and thus it is possible to do so. The Constitutional Court, which has this law in its judgment, has not yet said a word. We therefore find it totally unacceptable that the Government is coming with this law at this time, even following an emergency procedure. How does the government base it? It is convincing - 'to prevent the hard-to-reparable consequences of the functioning of the country, which would be due to the absence of lawyers, procedural actions' and so on - that is not true! It is important for the Slovenian public and we want to say that the interest in adopting this law is completely different. The interest of adopting this law is to fill the pockets of lawyers and nothing else. All the other things proposed in this law by the Government, all the rest of them are only a stage for this first, that is to say, to fill the pockets of lawyers. If the Government has a purpose or if there are difficulties in representing in procedures where lawyers are supposed or should be present, the Government has every opportunity to do so in the manner it now proposes or in any other way. Let us note that the fundamental problem is that legal tariffs have fallen by a large percentage from 20% to 70%. This is the real reason why the Government is proposing a change of law, and it is not surprising that the fact or nothing particularly calculus is necessary to find the right political links behind this bill. The Bar Association has made it important, very important, that once a powerful LDS party has remained in the image of several MPs in the National Assembly, so it is very clear that the Government is returning services to the legal lobby in this case, and this is in the form of an opportunity for lawyers to set their own tariffs. It seems completely unacceptable to me, or it seems to us that only the Minister of Justice can represent the scene in this regard, that the Chamber of Lawyers will be the one who will set the tariffs itself and with the time of adoption and validity of this Act, these tariffs will increase from 20% to 70% or more. Of course, this law will also be an important step forward for greater judicial backlogs. The law now in force stimulates lawyers to speed up judicial proceedings. Indeed, they have every opportunity to earn more in the event of settlement in the case of shorter judicial proceedings than they do if they are tirelessly writing half for half which each citizen pays separately; this, of course, stimulates them to delay proceedings. It should also be noted that the Secretary of State, who claims to be here before you, and also some of my speakers, is completely incoherent that the situation in the field of disciplinary procedures will improve. Of course, that's just not true. The situation in the field of disciplinary proceedings against lawyers goes back to where it was, and this is in the legal circles. The situation is quite clear - later on I will also explain this thesis - that both first and second, if we speak simplisticly, I will judge myself again, that is, not judge. This means that the Government is coming with a proposal for a law which is in direct contradiction, I stress, a direct contradiction with the Ombudsman's findings. And it certainly does not hold what is said in the proposal and which comes from an explanation to follow the recommendations made by the Ombudsman. It just doesn't hold. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I repeat, we strongly oppose such a law and, of course, we cannot under any circumstances support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the legal profession as part of the judiciary is a self-serving and independent service governed by the law, namely the Law on Lawyery. In 2008, however, a law was passed that fundamentally intervened in the institution itself. Interference in the independence of the lawyer therefore also implies interference with the rights, benefits and interests of the parties. It was mainly a popular gesture, similar to the lowering of notary tariffs. At the time of the adoption of this law, the Bar Council demanded a constitutional review of the law and announced that lawyers would not represent the parties on official duty. And that's exactly what that change led us to. The Courts shall be prevented from providing permanent representations on an official basis where they are necessary in the proceedings. At the same time, the implementation of the principle of the rule of law and the social state referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is at risk. However, the proposed arrangements allow for the smooth implementation of both institutions, i.e., representations under official responsibility and free legal assistance, by providing that, where the President of the competent court finds that the lists of both institutions to which a lawyer may be assigned are insufficient, the court of counsel shall determine in order of all lawyers entered in the catalogue of lawyers forming a district council organised in the area of each district court. This prevents the current situation where lawyers are increasingly excluded from the list of representatives under official responsibility. We also agree with the re-establishment of collective protection of legal liability through the State Bar Association and the strengthening of the system of disciplinary responsibility of lawyers. The proposal for a law renews the powers of the Bar to co-decision on the setting of legal tariffs. However, the public interest will be safeguarded by giving the Minister responsible for justice the consent before the adoption of the legal tariff at the Slovenian Bar Assembly. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the law currently in force on lawyering has intervened too deeply in the form of a self-serving and independent service, has sufficiently addressed the issue of representation under official responsibility and the area of free legal assistance, and has caused many problems and complications in practice. In the Zares Group, in view of the above, we support changes and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much. And also Mr Anton Urh on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u107	Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary of State. The new Law on Lawyers was introduced into the legislative procedure by emergency procedure. We assess in our parliamentary group, this has also been expressed at the meeting of the working body, that there are no reasons for such a procedure as defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For we believe that such a systemic change, as proposed, should be dealt with in a regular procedure so that long-term solutions can be drawn up through discussions and that the potential for the consequences of the amendment's solution can be verified. Nevertheless, we support some of the proposed solutions, because we believe they are absolutely necessary. In particular, it is a proposed arrangement for ensuring representation under official responsibility and for collective insurance of the professional responsibility of lawyers. We also agree with the change in the disciplinary procedure, as we are confident that the proposed solution will allow for a more efficient procedure, also on the basis of an extension of the range of persons on whom the Prosecutor is obliged to introduce disciplinary proceedings. The amendments adopted at the meeting of the working body shall also follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thus, the proposal is in line with the legislation in force. However, we have concerns in our parliamentary group about the proposed regulation. Despite these concerns about the proposed regulation of the legal tariff, the bill also provides for the expiry of the adopted law on legal tariff last year, and we are Members of DeSUS's favour to other proposed solutions, and these are a decisive reason for our support for the amendment of the law on legal representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. This concludes with the views of the parliamentary groups and brings us to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. To the second article, an amendment from the SDS Group was proposed. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 13, both shall be voted on jointly. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We propose in this amendment that article number two be deleted as you know. See where the reasons are: for the first time, we see no reason to reverse the situation or to look for any reason to regulate the insurance of legal liability in some other way. It means that it would be the Bar that makes the insurance contracts. Of course, it is necessary to say the following thing, in this way, to bring into the situation of a unique person who could equalize - at least a government proposal - things by protecting lawyers and their responsibility as well as car insurance. This is not understandable, this is abnormal, and not last but, in fact, the situation is such that it is not necessary. Each lawyer is in some way a private person and the normal thing is that he will be responsible in his own company, in his company or as an individual in such a way as to protect himself. Such an arrangement, of course, means that the situation is simply so that we do not have to regulate it in such a way. And also insurance companies - in fact, to ask them to make such insurance, I find it relatively unnecessary and abnormal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President-in-Office, Minister-in-Charge, and all colleagues and colleagues. I am also surprised by the decision of the Government or the Ministry that this law has been put into effect by an emergency procedure and that these solutions, which this article also indicates, are placed in such a law at all. I wonder why such an urge to grant a certain privilege to the Bar Association or lawyers to protect their responsibility. Is this the practice of a poor part of lawyers, especially for those citizens and citizens who, in the courts because of, perhaps, lawyers, have had a number of justifiable actions? Maybe it's corruption? We know that in Slovenia, because of good connections, perhaps even courts and lawyers, all economic crime will now be almost completely nonexistent. Maybe because of their rejection? We know that anyone who has dealt with lawyers for a long time has probably been poor. There may also be a reason here, given that either a number of citizens and citizens who address European courts will or will be referred to European courts, where it is determined whether different judgments are being handed down than in Slovenia - and this also proves that we have a judicial system in Slovenia, as well as a lawyer far below European practice. Otherwise, I can't explain to myself why it's here to prescribe to insurance companies that they have to protect the liability of lawyers. Why is it not left to insurance companies to decide voluntarily whether or not they will insure the product or its liability or not on the basis of products they will produce themselves in insurance companies? They are the ones who will be able to assess whether a particular thing makes sense to them, whether they are economically justified or not. I am sure that their study on insurance companies will show here, or the practice that these products can also be interesting to them, and that the lawyer will decide for himself whether to provide insurance or through the Bar. Will the Bar Association be left here as well, so that even they can determine what premiums will be paid to insurance companies? Of course, these premiums are likely to be minimal if this can happen. Contrary to the fact that lawyers are allowed to leave the Chamber of Lawyers again with jurisdiction or the possibility to define legal tariffs for their clients who, as they were, will be tossed. Thus, it is more obvious here that this has to do with some pre-election promises, especially in the LDS, the Zares or the coalition, that here, in fact, such solutions pay for those services or perhaps even some suggestions, advice or even legal lobby, which has also contributed to the fact that you now have the opportunity to decide on these matters. And here I am truly surprised, instead of the fact that the government, as well as your ministry, are dealing with judicial backlogs, with a number of unresolved matters that are important to citizens and citizens, not least for economic enterprises, you are going to take priority in solving things that are, after all, completely irrelevant. Here we have problems with the financial crisis, with the economic crisis to provide financial assistance to our pensioners - but this is not the priority of the government, this is not the priority of the ministry! We will take priority in putting decisions to the deleted, helping the tycoons to reprogram their debts, and protecting the lawyers who help, have helped and will also help in all these open cases that have been either brought to trial or are still in the process of investigation, including in the area of management disputed acquisitions and all that. In both the Slovenian Democratic Party and I will personally oppose, through all my efforts and powers, the adoption of this law in such a form. In particular, I appeal to the coalition Members that this amendment be deleted, that this article, which provides that insurance companies should be protected from legal liability, that this should be left to the market or to the decisions of the insurance undertakings themselves, and that we should also allow them autonomy, but not only that we call for lawyers to be an independent branch, but they are obviously independent especially when they are able to impose customs duties on themselves. That's how I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. We are talking about Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which wants to re-establish a free contractual relationship between the two parties, this is a lawyer and an insurance company, which does not need to be so strongly influenced by the state. But this is part of the fundamental error of this law, this novel. That is, we are aware that a service of public interest is an extremely important service, because the State has incorporated legal representation into the system of establishment and preservation of the rule of law, into the system of ensuring justice. And whoever wants to gain their right, whoever wants the state to provide them with legal certainty, has to seek the assistance of a lawyer. It's a state built such a system, and that's fine. Surely, then, the State must monitor this service with special care, but with care that this service works properly, qualitatively, impartially, fairly, especially in the care of those to whom it is intended. These are citizens seeking their right to seek legal certainty in this country, which is supposed to be legal. And here, of course, like I said, there are two mistakes. The first is that this novel restores the freedom of lawyers to set the price of these services. So, the state demands citizens: if you want to get to justice, you have to ask for a lawyer's favor. And here the country leaves this country, once again, with this novelty, free decision on the price and we know what the prices of these services are. We know that many citizens do not want to get to their rights, legal protection if they do not have enough money. What right is this that you don't have access to because of your thin wallet? I am not just talking about those minimum layers below the poverty threshold that the state is supposed to provide them with free legal aid. I am talking about all those who are above the threshold of poverty for the euro, and they also cannot come to these rights. This is the first, severe anomaly of this law. By means of this law, we will again prevent all those with thin wallets from reaching their rights in a timely and qualitative manner. Of course, lawyers are very pleased, for who would defend the great profits that are known; the profits at the expense of the tragedy of the people who seek their right. And the other mistake is the one we're talking about. Here, however, the country is very careful, strangely careful, to require insurance companies to offer and conclude liability insurance contracts for damage arising from misconduct or poor performance of their attorneys' duties. There is only one example that I would like to say; an example that says that it is pointless that the state is involved in such a way of working - I don't know who will benefit - in some free operation and a free relationship between the one offering the insurance and the one it decides. Just one case. Similarly to lawyering is a doctor, including a doctor who diagnoses, completely independently, responsible, treats independently, responsiblely, no one can order him, which investigations, which medicines, because he chooses it, are completely responsible. For employed doctors, for their mistakes, mistakes made in a cost-effective way are the responsibility of the health service, and for private doctors are the responsibility of the doctors themselves. And as soon as after 1992, 1994 private concessionary medicine appeared - that is to say, in the public health service, that activity, which is also very difficult and interested in the country, and the state has to take care of it in quality, with safety for patients, with safety for users - nothing shocking has happened. Doctors themselves sought out insurance companies through the Medical Chamber, and today it was not a private concessionaire who would not have been insured with one of the damage insurance companies that would have been caused by his error. The Chamber did nothing but communicate with two insurance companies that appeared to be interested, which would offer a better offer, a better offer for greater safety and a lower cost for doctors. This has also resulted in group discounts and things are running perfectly normal, as the doctor’s responsibility and the lawyer’s responsibility are that if he does harm, he will, of course, have to pay for the damage. If he can't do it himself, if he's smart, he'll be insured. This is an area in which it is so pointless to interfere with the law, to determine from insurance companies, to require the insurance company to accept these insurance, this is a matter of contractual relations. One more time. There are two big mistakes. I am sorry that Article 5 is such and went through the committee unchanged, it cannot even be amended, i.e. the article by which the Bar Association itself will determine the prices of its services, but it is a public service in some way, a state and mass civil service to which citizens are bound to seek their services. With the Minister's consent to such prices, we know how this works, we know how this happens - nothing will be secured. The lawyers' lobby will again be at the expense of those with the thin wallets and the others will be at the expense of their wallets. Let them earn so much to earn fair, fair pay is required for honest work, but within the limits of a normal relationship, within the limits of some solidarity, as is often commonly said today, and in terms of rejecting harsh capitalism, the harsh exploitation of people who are bound to a service and cannot help themselves otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Lautijar Bebler also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. If Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party would listen to you for the first time today, I might fall for you. I'm going to allow myself to fall for these populist "flossulas" -- and this expression, let me be forgiven -- at the same time, I apologize for it -- when you're talking about things that, just with today's novel, which we're dealing with today, have nothing to do with it. You are talking about your opposition to changing this law in an urgent way, and of course you are forgetting or deliberately overlooking that the emergency procedure is used in the National Assembly and is allowed where irreparable consequences may arise for the country and so on. By the way, these irreparable and harmful consequences have already occurred, as in the explanation, the applicant states exactly how these lawyers, who are supposed to represent the parties on official duty, what is the legal aid and, in fact, this novelty proposal is the answer to these irreparable and harmful consequences that have already taken place. Another time. You are saying how, why does the proposer not take the time to discuss the proposed changes in peace and discuss them and agree on them during a normal period of time? In doing so, you are forgetting that, in the previous mandate, we adopted the law, on the proposal of the applicants who were then of your coalition species, following a reduced procedure. The whole law, which the lawyers so allegedly put on their heads, was then passed on your proposal by means of a reduced procedure. And it did not help to draw attention to some even constitutionally disputed provisions in it, nor did it help that the Council of State voted veto at that time! Today you are talking about the unacceptable fact that the Council of Justice was unable to give its opinion on this proposed novel. To that comprehensive Law on Lawyery, which is in force today, the Council of Justice was not even called upon to give its opinion. He wasn't even invited! And let me also remind you of the last amendment to the Law on Lawyery, which you proposed only last July, just before the elections that you wanted to legislate the ban on the transfer of state attorneys to the bar. At that time, the Council of Justice was not called upon to give its opinion and opinion. And, of course, that law was also proposed by emergency procedure! Thus, I think that this debate, whether the proper procedure is chosen in this case today or not, is entirely unnecessary because it serves nothing but the spread of demagogism and populism. Secondly, when we talk about the amendment to Article 2, it is well explained that this will ensure the optimal protection of the rights of the parties. That's not what it is now. The applicant also explained the problems that arise because there are delays in a certain conclusion of insurance contracts and can happen, and it happens that some lawyers are not insured at all and that their customers are deprived of it. And that's what this is all about. My friend Candy says if the lawyer's smart, he'll be safe. What if he's not smart? What's going to happen in this case? In this case, who will suffer? If there's any damage to him, the client will suffer. So, I would like to ask that we renounce demagogism and populism, that we are aware that we are talking about the Law on Lawyering, where the role of counsel is primarily this function, to help a person when exercising his rights and his rights right before a court, and that you are not trying to give us some incentives, how we support lawyers who wanted to, with their services, "frozen" if I say so, our clients, but let us allow the possibility that the vast majority of lawyers are honest, professionally qualified and working people who also sincerely want and help the parties who represent them. That is why I think that this amendment to Article 2 of this Act, which you are proposing to colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, is unacceptable and we do not intend to support it in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm gonna open the application list because I can see a few more hands. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. We are discussing the amendment to Article 2. I would like to draw attention to this whole debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u117	I've been very supportive, and I've been discussing that amendment, and I can see that the debate has come to everything, and I'd like you to let me do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u118	I would ask that we discuss the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u119	I'm going to give up on you doing this, too, because I'm ready for another thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u120	Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much again. Look, irreparable damage to the country. I see here an interest - irreparable damage, obviously, for lawyers, unless an amendment is accepted here or irreparable damage will occur for our citizens if this amendment is not respected. Why a shortened procedure? That there will be irreparable harm for those citizens and citizens who are supposed to have legal assistance under the law. Which is not the country that can otherwise regulate the legal profession, the professions, because they cannot be untouchable, but let us give them in some other way a command that they must offer their legal aid or determine their price because they have come to education with the help of the State, to the professional examination and all that is involved. However, not to allow them to now have the privilege of setting large tariffs here, we will talk about this later, but in particular to safeguard their responsibility. The idea of what will happen to someone who will not be insured and will receive great compensation: he may lose his yacht, he may lose his villa, he may lose his property that he has acquired at the expense of cutting prices in the past. With an amendment like this, we're going to kind of limit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I don't think Mrs. Pechanov wants you to. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, Mr Vice President and everyone else, of course. I would just like to point out one thing, perhaps it seems irrelevant to someone, but an important substantive error in the explanation of this amendment, where you state that the only compulsory insurance in Slovenia is car insurance. That's not true. In Slovenia we also have compulsory architectural insurance, so the contracts concluded by architects for projects because of the damage that can occur to a party with whom the architect concludes in the design of the contract can be so great that the architect or company, the group of architects, cannot pay the client and therefore the insurance is compulsory. If an architect who submits a project and signs it as a responsible designer does not protect his work, then he may lose his license. So when you write any such explanations, I would suggest that you first check what the actual situation is, since you have also adopted these laws. On the other hand, I would like to say that insurance for the liability of individual professionals is not intended for the safety of these operators, but for the safety of their customers. And for that reason, it is ridiculous to explain that such compulsory insurance causes damage to a client represented by a lawyer and here I would suggest that you at least give up on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I see that there are no more debaters on this amendment to Article 2, so we are moving on. We will discuss the amendments to Article 10. The three amendments of the SDS Group shall be inserted into Article 10. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Since all three of our amendments are committed to disciplinary responsibility, I suggest we talk about them together, and I will stick to it again, and I repeat, next time I will not do it again if the other discussers will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u126	Well, I forgot, I'm sorry to say that we're discussing all three amendments together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The explanation stated that it was intended to accelerate disciplinary procedures, to make them faster, better and more effective. The truth is completely different. First of all, why? After the law in force adopted in the previous term, we know the disciplinary commission and the disciplinary court, and I would ask if you would listen to me. In the case of the Disciplinary Commission, the Chamber of Counsel shall also have primates under the applicable law. In fact, there are two lawyers and one person on the proposal of the Council of Justice. Well, he's got a primate bar. In the case of a disciplinary court, we have two members on the proposal of the Council of Justice and one member on the proposal of the Bar. At least according to the law in force, therefore, in the case of disciplinary courts, lawyers do not judge themselves, although we know that the Council of Justice is probably not proposing metal cutters or furnaces, but also lawyers. After the proposed arrangement, as we today accept, after this amendment, what is the situation? We keep the Disciplinary Commission and the Disciplinary Court, by fully bringing lawyers to the Disciplinary Commission. So we delete the member at the expense of the Council of Justice. As for the disciplinary court - see what the proposed composition is. The three are lawyers on the proposal of the Bar and the two are supreme judges, which still gives an absolute advantage to the decision-making process at this level exclusively and only to lawyers. So, what are we doing? We're doing what we're doing with lawyers, I mean those two members from the Council of Justice who are in the disciplinary court today - no! These two are all we're gonna do, and we're only gonna bring in lawyers. Three to two is the composition here for the benefit of lawyers. I was taught a long time ago that "the crows don't turn off their eyes." A few cases. In my former job, most of you know where I was, the situation until 1990 was such that complaints against police officers were handled by police officers. And they didn't even have to answer what they found out if you complained. However, since then this democratic system has led to a situation where the external civil society has decided at a second stage with some changes to the laws. Please - think about it! It's up to the public outside. Also, police procedures are professional, such as the right profession, such as doctors of the profession and other professionals. I repeat. He's deciding the outside public. And the outside public therefore assesses whether the use of, say, firearms or something like that was right or wrong. And they never held any weapons in their hands. And we're closing the bar and the bar so far that - I won't talk about the prices yet, because this follows - so far we're closing it down that they're also deciding on their disciplinary responsibilities. Note, in the Government's explanation - and it would also be good to read, not only our amendment - the Government's explanation states very clearly that the Ombudsman has also warned of certain irregularities and that the law follows this. I'm sorry, but what the Ombudsman's report says - that the Bar does not respond to her letters; to ignore her letters, it's in the Ombudsman's report! Furthermore, the Ombudsman mentions disciplinary procedures which he clearly says are too long to be delayed and not decided as it should be, and she does not get any data herself. I'm sorry, now that they're lawyers themselves or when they have a majority - in the case of a disciplinary court - the situation is likely to get worse. So if I make another comparison, let's go to the doctor's logs, and some of the latest cases - Maribor, and some of them. See who decides - again, an independent body, a disciplinary committee of the Medical Chamber or what it's called. Who's in there? Independent public, lawyers, cops? No, the doctors are there. So, doctors judge and judge medical errors. And no wonder it's decided months, months, months after someone's death - watch out, after someone's death! And then in the end, they say, in two months, we're gonna take your license. It's a terrible punishment! It's a terrible punishment, isn't it? So it makes no sense and it is not possible to close disciplinary procedures in this sense. I am deeply convinced that the current regime that we have reached out to disciplinary procedures in the previous government is also not the best. I should probably be sharper. Not as you now suggest that things are going back to the old tracks and that things are going back into the "crowd crow system doesn't rule out eyes." So much for these amendments. I'll ask for another word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 10? I'm just gonna open up a series of applications. Check-in is on. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The way in which legal errors are judged, which of course are necessarily due, is extremely important. I myself do not think that the majority of the members of this Chamber can have lawyers. I am aware that lawyers are just as well to decide on such a body where they would have a majority, and then, under the law, "the crows don't turn off their eyes" are maximum insured, as in other associations, unfortunately. However, this proposal, the amendment that we are submitting, I think it is significantly more consistent. I'm sure most lawyers don't want it to be decided in the Bar on the principle of "kadia sued, kadija sued". I believe in their responsibility to be aware that there must be a law-enforcement authority. By the way, I understand the Minister and the policy that he repays debts to dedicated lawyers, namely those dedicated to the most infamous cases in Slovenia, who have represented this economic crime, that they should be repaid with some debt, but that it is a very complex solution, which also tangeses values and in no way must be as proposed by the Ministry after the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. The 2009 government programme placed this law, but only after a regular procedure and only 21. Seven. I don't know what has happened since the Minister gave his consent to this proposal to the government. He probably got some kind of visit from his colleague Kozinac at the Bar Association. We also pointed out on the committee that, last year, when the law was passed, lawyers filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court has not yet decided on that. I believe that the wise minister and the smart government would have waited for the Constitutional Court to decide, and it is not true, as has been said several times today, that all lawyers opposed the law. In my opinion, the law is too short for us to be able to do such analyses or just turn them upside down, and in no way do we take autonomy, independence from lawyers, because 60% of European countries know similar arrangements, but no one there says that lawyers are being violated by any rights and that this is an intervention in their independence. The system laid down by the law last year forced lawyers to do so, or encouraged them to help the parties close their case as soon as possible, perhaps to close the case before the case came to trial, thus reaching a settlement. Nor are the tariffs so bad, reaching three-quarters of the tariffs that lawyers in Germany have, so that is probably a bad excuse. The Minister pointed out on the Committee that the problem is if the state loses in the case of public procurement, that the law has to be amended to do so. Yes, let's do something to ensure that the state does not lose and that public procurement procedures are carried out as it needs to not lose in possible lawsuits! In changing the articles that talk about the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, it is not logical that you are returning things to the previous period, because you are yourself in the explanation of the articles to each other, but it is very important that I read this: you yourself have written to explain to Article 6 that "the addition of this article is absolutely necessary because the Slovenian Bar Association itself finds that in practice there is increasing infringements of legal ethics and the charging of legal services contrary to the legal tariff. All of this undermines both the legal and security side and the reputation of the attorney general's office in its entirety." For this reason, I do not understand why you reject disciplinary procedures and suggest that the majority of the committees that decide on this are lawyers or proposed by the Bar. Several colleagues have already mentioned, there is no logic in deciding for themselves or taking sanctions for themselves if things were wrong. However, medical examples can teach us something. The Health Board has now withdrawn two doctors’ licenses for two or four months. But why did she do it? Not because the chamber itself would have assessed it, but because of the desperate pressure of the media, the public, the parents of both children, etc. I'm sure we all agree that our lawyers and doctors are protected, and now you're protecting them even more. I don't know if it's the minister's job, but I think that the minister has to work for people, but for citizens and citizens, not for some lobby that we've probably hurt by changing the law last year, and it would be logical that the lawyers of the law didn't support it, because he just intervened in what they decided to do; so he reached into what probably hurts them in their wallets - so they'll earn less. I will support the proposed amendments of our Group of Members, which maintain the regime as envisaged last year with the law. Let's take some time to analyze things after they've been in place for a while, not that we're practically changing it after two months of tariffs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsukati has also signed up for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I, too, fully agree with my colleagues and with my colleague on the composition of the disciplinary commission. In fact, it is unacceptable that both the President and all members of the Disciplinary Commission are appointed by the Bar Association from among their members. However, I would like to point out that it would not be an accident for the Bar or the Lawmaker to refer to a disciplinary committee of the Medical Chamber. For such disciplinary committees as our previous law has established, where all plural occupation, or at least one from elsewhere, has not been and is not a legal basis in health care. In the field of operation of doctors, we have the supervision of the insurance company, the administrative supervision of the Ministry and the medical-ethical commission, which is fully appointed by the Minister and where there has never been a chance that the Medical Chamber would appoint its member. Since there were no other committees, the Chamber itself, as its institute, set up a disciplinary committee for doctors. This was her independent, free contribution to managing medical errors. And if the law for doctors is to prepare such a commission where it would be pluralized, I am the first to confirm it. I'm saying this so that no one would accidentally refer to the disciplinary committee of the Medical Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u134	Mrs. Lavtizarova has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to be clear because more debates in this direction have been given here, which simply do not withstand very simple facts. Indeed, it is not true that disciplinary commissions are composed solely of lawyers in these cases and therefore only lawyers decide on themselves. That's not true at all. Since, at the first and second stages, disciplinary commissions are composed of other university-graduate lawyers who have a judicial exam and an appropriate number of work experience, which is chosen by the Bar from the list on which these are external, to say so, potential members of disciplinary committees. So it's not true that it's always just lawyers making their own decisions. After that, if we continue to look at the subject of a disciplinary court, there are two supreme judges in that court besides three lawyers. And you'll believe that the Supreme Judges aren't the same as the lawyers, so we can't say that lawyers decide about themselves, about lawyers. But if there are two Supreme Court judges here in this Chamber, then this is one very serious matter and they can't stand any comparison of you with police matters and medical matters and so on. However, another set of these changes, which are proposed here, speaks of the need for the Disciplinary Prosecutor to inform the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister responsible for justice within 8 days and instruct them to continue the disciplinary procedure on their own. And then the President of the Supreme Court or the Minister finds that even though the Disciplinary Prosecutor has withdrawn from the proceedings, they continue the proceedings themselves. This is then another additional external guard in this disciplinary procedure. Therefore, please do not mix apples and pears or worse, anything else that goes even less together, so that we will know that it is not as you claim here today, but read, say, the 10th article of this proposal or, better yet, the explanation of this article, and you will understand that what you said does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Anyone else besides Dr. Gorenak want a word? No, no, no. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u137	Of course, if I mixed only apples and pears, it would still be very good. But if you mix salad and eggs, it's even worse. Look, I specifically told you that according to the proposed system that we are adopting today, there are three persons in the disciplinary court on the proposal of the Bar, probably not doctors, and two on the proposal of the Council of Justice. The current state of me is reversed. And you're putting him in a position when the members of the Bar have a head start again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 10 and the three amendments. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 13. I had warned earlier when the debate was that this amendment to Article 13 was substantively linked to the amendment to Article 2. Who wants to discuss it? Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u139	Of course he's connected. I don't think so. I think this is a matter for transitional and final provisions and it is a matter of legal tariffs. As this amendment prolongs the validity of the current law in this area, so that the Law on Lawyers can be amended and that legal tariffs can be reintroduced as is the case. I have before me data from 2008, out of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union there are eighteen such countries, I stress, eighteen such countries where the legal tariff is set by Parliament or the government. Only five countries, and we join them with your proposal, are those where the legal rate is set by the bar with some agreement, which I will talk about a little later. Lawyer tariffs fell from 20% to 60% in the first three months of this year. I have tables in front of me, and I can show them, but it makes sense to say the following. Although the legal tariffs have been reduced in accordance with the law, as they are, still reach 75%, I say 75% of the German tariff, but we know that the Germans are in some other economic situation, with some completely different salaries. So they're still doing it. The transfer of legal tariffs from the National Assembly laid down by law is therefore also the main reason for all amendments to this law and also the main reason for the urgency procedure. The government is ahead of its own plan for six months and for a few months, I think three months. A very important indicator of this is also your explanation of Article 6, which makes it very clear that lawyers, that the Lawyers' Chamber finds, quote: "...that in practice there is increasing infringements of legal ethics and the charging of legal fees contrary to tariffs." So lawyers don't respect the law and set different prices. Whoever will tell me that the problem is solved by the role of the minister, namely, the Minister, under the proposed legislation, gives consent to the legal tariff, I will answer that - I will give him a hypothetical case which has no direct connection with you, applies to all ministers or bosses, that is, the Presidents of the Bar. If I had been a professor in economic college, and I didn't, I'm at one another, I would have given students who would be dealing with the following question or the next seminar assignment, - [[Mrs. Potter, don't bother me, please.]] - The question would be: Can you imagine all the weight of negotiations for new prices of legal services? In fact, the former Justice Minister, Miha Kozinc, writes a new pricelist for legal fees and, as former Minister, is now an independent president of the Bar, an independent step towards an independent Minister of Justice, his former subordinate, possibly his successor at the Bar Association, and asks him to agree on higher legal tariffs. Students, please assess how difficult these negotiations will be. They will probably make it very clear that negotiations will not take place if there is any need for a person A, namely Mihe Kozinac, to Aleš Zalar. Don't get "barbat"! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Before I give you the word and the replica, I think I was right to remind you of the substantive resemblance of both amendments to Articles 2 and 13. Mr Gorenak, I let you discuss this, you talked about the legal tariff, which will be the contents of the next amendment, which is Article 17. She's got a replica. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It is you, but you haven't discussed it before, so you don't have a replica. No, you weren't reported in the debate earlier. You don't have a replica. Anybody else want some? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u141	Would you like to ask, are we talking about Article 17 and the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u142	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u143	About the 13th? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u144	and I put to the debate Article 13, clearly, and warned that it was substantively similar. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u145	I'll talk to Article 17.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u146	If there is no more to discuss here you are, Mrs Mag. Spending. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to discuss and point out that we are, however, Members and Members of Parliament in the National Assembly, and if I wish to warn someone that this fact should simply be conscious when it comes to debate, I apologize deeply to him if I have hurt him and removed him from the track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u148	Ma'am mag. I don't know who this is. Maybe even for me when I didn't give you the replica, but still, I followed the Rules of Procedure and what you wanted, and you said so. I conclude the debate on this article. And we are moving on to the debate on Article 17 or the proposed amendment, which speaks of the legal tariff to remind you. I'm opening the application. Mr. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I hope you don't mind. I'll lean back on my health. Indeed, there are such circumstances that are comparable to the work of a lawyer. Indeed, the right to health, to health care, is enshrined in the Constitution and the State fulfils it by providing such a service and setting prices. Private concessionaires involved in the public health service also receive paid services as determined by the State or the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. And it's no different. And a health care home, hospital or doctor may want to raise prices - it cannot, the state determines because it protects citizens because it protects access to these services. However, whether these services are paid by citizens in cash or through tax, it is totally irrelevant; in health care it is through health insurance, through taxes. And I am sure that the legal service is also of state importance, stately. And the state must take care of it; it must allow access to this service if it is required, when a citizen seeks the right to justice, the right to legal certainty. And the only logical approach is that these prices are determined by the state. Of course, as is the case in health care where both operators, health care homes, hospitals, the Health Insurance Institute, the Ministry, are looking for alternatives, these coordinations for healthcare prices take place throughout the months each year. But last but not least, the Minister or Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Pika. That is why I do not agree with these prices being set up by the Bar Chamber, because this is too important matters, for too important a right that citizens must be guaranteed by this country if it is to be legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u151	The Committee has put forward in an argument such an arrangement as is now proposed by Mr Minister, a highly unusual structure, which I would like to explain in detail. See, all those who know the legal order from a distance, you know that Slovenia belongs to the German-Roman legal order and our first example is Austria and Germany. These are exactly the countries that regulate the level of the legal rate by law. Exactly as is the case, so professionally in line with the legal example that our constitutional and other law is supposed to follow, the coalition has regulated in the last term. Now you're tearing it down. However, as an argument for this, it was stated that because other things were not well transferred from the Austrian and German appearances, let us give it back. Please, what an argument that is. Like in construction, if the whole wall isn't walled, it's just "complete," and we're gonna fire the whole thing up. That's an argument in this style, like you're offering, because that's just what you're hiding the essence of. The essence of this law is one thing: it is necessary to drastically increase the legal tariffs in order for precisely defined lawyers to draw the maximum profit out of this, and in doing so all citizens and citizens will have to pay double, that is to say very clearly. First of all, whenever they need a lawyer themselves, because in individual cases the legal tariffs will be three times higher than they are now, the arrangements have already been such and are therefore crystal clear, this is a return to the higher one, for people a much worse arrangement that we have made at the end of the previous term, and, second of all, when one of the public institutions, public authorities, budget consumers, therefore, has to hire a lawyer's office, he will also pay more, and we will all pay more as taxpayers in this case an additional "faith" to certain people of a particular nature. And that is really the whole priority of the current government policy, which is shown in this law, that precisely certain features, precisely certain people, are allowed to have unhindered wealth at the expense of all others; for social and even constitutional rights, because the right to judicial protection is a constitutional right and they care little more. If anyone thinks this claim is exaggerated, let me tell you why we are proposing a change as long as it has now been transferred here, this is probably the only possibility for the amendment we have had. Because of this rise, a disproportionate rise, an excessive rise at a time when people are waiting in the ranks of the employment agency, a scandalous rise in the legal tariffs that will follow this new law will only shine in the right light if people know that you are at the same time preparing legislation that will still be available in those instances, including the Constitutional Court, where no lawyer has to be hired so far, requires that anything be filed only with the help of a lawyer. This has already been officially announced on your part. This means that you will give lawyers an additional source of earnings and, on top of everything else, where things could be arranged for the general benefit, let's say a constitutional law on so-called deleted, and you take it there without everything, so that these proceedings will end in court. The question is, how much compensation will they get, they may be high, they may not be that high, but one thing is certain: lawyers will have an extra job in this case. In short, it is more than obvious which priority has, and personally, forgive me, I cannot shake the impression that gentlemen, who are single and at least two ministers, and a minister and a minister, are currently in this game. In fact, what they're preparing for is their immediate return to law enforcement. Because they are probably so realistic that they realize that doing so is against the interests of most people, it does not have to end well for them politically.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u152	Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Not only will I respond to the previous debate, but it will not only be said in principle that there will be no gleaning, I will say on a specific case that took place at the beginning of this year, which is the result of this so-single, as you say, that last year's Law on Lawyers, which was adopted in June, and later, following the Law on Lawyers, of course, the previous coalition, the former government protected citizens or me as a taxpayer. The State authority which hired a lawyer to prepare him to be audited under the new law on the legal rate of audit application is the result in euro of the following: the sum of the audit request is EUR 47 million. Composition of the audit application EUR 79 000 267.5. Material costs 2%. VAT 20%. Tax on the request for a revision of EUR 10 000. A little over 100,000 euros. This is a concrete consequence of last year's adopted law and, consequently, the tariff law, which you are talking about today, has protected me as a taxpayer for this audit. Figo protected me. Figo! She ripped me off. She skinned me even more than she used to. And so when you speak, Comrade Grims, and the former President of the National Assembly who signed these laws, please know what you have signed or what you have accepted. What are the consequences, and on specific occasions, you can tell who is the skin or who will be the skin. Now you're talking about who's gonna be a rat, because it's gonna be easy. But you've already raised the barrage under this law, but look at this as taxpayers. Those who have your holy attorneys who work for Dars, what construction company, etc. Because, of course, last July, you didn't know you were going to lose the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u155	Just a simple fact. What you are now returning to what was before, I just want to remind you that, at the time of the introduction of the new law in the last mandate for certain areas, the legal tariff has also been reduced by up to two thirds. And because of that, talking about some absolute amounts without telling you what the trend is going to be, it doesn't make sense. That legal rate went down. Now it's going back to the old one, completely everyone in their right mind, it's clear that the legal rate will "slow down" to at least the level where it was before.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I see there's no one left to discuss. With this, we have exhausted the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 2 p.m. and 10 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. So, I'm breaking this agenda. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m. and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u157	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the draft law on amendments to the Land Book Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of the group? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, an explanation of the voice in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u158	Yes, Mr President, you didn't see me before when I was raising my hand at our amendment, but you didn't notice me. See, our parliamentary group has proposed a compromise proposal that would somehow trouble the government if they were justified and take the courts into account and at the same time not delay solutions that are good for citizens. We know that the land book is a problem and it is impossible for the government to give the silence indefinitely. Since you have not accepted a compromise proposal, it is more than clear that you want a mess in the land book, that you want swamps where possible. It is a mess where real estate fraud and others are more successful than citizens who do not have successful lawyers. I do not want to give this silence to the Government, so I will vote against such a law, where it goes consciously in the direction that what was good in the legislation is put off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I no longer see any interest in explanations of vote, so we are voting. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 18. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance - a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. This is the amendment to Article 1. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. On the amendment to Article 2, to the first amendment to Article 2. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 13 and is therefore voted on jointly, in sequence. If the first amendment to Article 2 is not adopted, the second amendment shall become irrelevant to Article 13. Please explain your voice. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Why do we need support for this amendment? In the past year, we passed the Law on Lawyers, which made it very clear or determined how to secure legal liability, which was transferred to the lawyers themselves or to the law firm. With the amendments to the law proposed by this article, we are moving to an old state and imposing on insurance companies the obligation to conclude contracts with the Bar Association in order to secure legal liability. According to our assessment, this is, of course, inappropriate, it is also unique, I said earlier, otherwise, half-empty hall, that we are doing something like securing a compulsory car, like compulsory car insurance. This, of course, is not acceptable, neither is it normal, nor is it necessary, in fact. Lawyers are independent, lawyers are, in principle, private individuals or owners of law firms and can therefore take care of their liability. In no case does this need to be regulated by law, and we are proposing in fact this amendment, in which we are actually establishing an old state, means that lawyers are insured themselves or their responsibility. The explanation given by the proponents that many lawyers do not protect their responsibilities does not, in fact, deter some normal criticism, since it is possible to arrange it differently, to leave it to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[29 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 45 members.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted and therefore the amendment to Article 13 of the same motions is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 10. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. This time, too, I want to explain very precisely what we are actually going into, and if anyone listens to me, you will also hear why we are proposing this amendment. In 2008, we settled our legal responsibility, our disciplinary responsibility - I will simplify that we have a disciplinary commission and a disciplinary court. The Disciplinary Commission is composed of three members, three members, three plus two, and two propose a Council of Justice. In the case of a disciplinary commission, however, the Court of Justice has some primacy, since it can propose three members and only two lawyers. What we're going into with this law, what we're going into with the changes to the law, is the following. No one can convince me that we're getting better. Each one of us needs to know the saying, "The crows don't turn off their eyes." What are we going to do? We are simply going to be in the first stage, that is, in the case of the disciplinary committee, in its entirety the Bar Chamber, I stress once again, the Bar that will propose these committees. At the second stage, where today there is a ratio of three to two in favour of the proposal of the Council of Justice, watch out, we are moving again to the benefit of the lawyers, to the ratio of three to two, of course this time in favour of the Bar and we are reducing the importance of the proposal of the Council of Justice; that is, leave only two members to them. In doing so, we ensure that all that has been said by the Ombudsman behind this speaker panel will continue. She's very clear to us, and this is what the report says, said that the Bar is not responding to her requests, letters, calls, in short, not responding at all. She also criticised disciplinary procedures, where she made it clear that things were not going as well as they should. Today, however, we are creating conditions under this law to make this situation even worse. This means that lawyers will have an absolute advantage both in the case of disciplinary committees and in the case of a disciplinary court. Meanings, always and everywhere, will be able to vote on the other members of the disciplinary court or disciplinary commission. In short, we reassurance by law a condition whereby crows will even less turn their eyes off. And that's why we need support from our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I beg your pardon, in my own name? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support you, just like my colleagues here, we will support this amendment, which is absolutely meaningful. It is true that even in the National Assembly, in some cases the opposition has a numerical advantage. Why, then, should we accept complaints about the work of lawyers in our parliamentary group on a case-by-case basis, and why should lawyers themselves decide whether their colleagues are working or wrong or right? In Slovenia, I don't know if it's ever happened or if it ever happens that a colleague will give a bad opinion or talk about him or just tell the truth that he's doing a bad job. These cases are not only in legal circles, these cases are widespread in court circles, these cases are spread in medical circles, in short, all over Slovenia. And let us once stop this practice, that the hand washes and that a friend helps a friend and that the crow does not turn off his eyes, let us take one step further, but let us put order in these matters once. I say again, for this reason I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Let me back up this data I've been talking about before. I'm going back to my old job. Before 1990, police officers were the only ones to judge the disciplinary procedures of police officers. All complaints against police officers were resolved by police officers, and even the law prescribed a state of law according to which the police were said to answer or not. With time and years and with three or four amendments to the police law, we have come into a state where today police complaints against police officers are fully resolved by the external civil society; I repeat, fully resolved by the outside civil society. With lawyers, we return to the situation when we have slightly opened the door to some groups of people who are proposed by the Council of Justice in these disciplinary proceedings, after three months, we will reintroduce them after three months, lock them up with a large lock and say, "No, lawyers will decide themselves on their disciplinary procedures." Let me remind you of the explanation, see what you wrote down to explain, it's about that. Complementation of this article is absolutely necessary, as the Law Chamber in Slovenia itself notes that in practice there is an increasing number of infringements of legal ethics and even charging of legal services contrary to the legal tariff - otherwise they will talk about it later - but even days ago, I will make a comparison with doctors, even days ago we have heard that someone has lost a license for two months, someone for four months, but these disciplinary procedures or procedures have run for a year when a family from Maribor had to ask for this chamber or for action. Please, let's not put this thing back in a closed circle between lawyers!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[30 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 43 members.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. I would like to point out that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment referred to in point 3 and is being voted on jointly. If the second amendment is not adopted, the third amendment is irrelevant. It shall be voted on in sequence. If the second amendment is not adopted, the third amendment is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[28 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 45 members.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. This also makes the amendment in order number 3 to Article 10 irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 17 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you. I can see that I have not been successful, and I will try, for I am very persistent. The amendment to Article 17 is essentially a temporary solution for the reason that the amendment to Article 5 and Article 5 were closed on the Committee. We're talking about legal tariffs. Today, legal tariffs are set by law, so set in the National Assembly and in the National Assembly, we have put ourselves at the side of the 18th European countries in the past year, I repeat, 18 European countries where the legal tariff is set in the National Assembly or in the Government. We're bringing the case back to where we were, which means we're putting it back in the legal logs. So it will be decided by the Bar, only formally, also in agreement with the Minister. So we closed the bar a little while ago, and we told them that they would decide their own actions in disciplinary proceedings. Now in this amendment, if our amendment is not adopted, we will allow them to make precise decisions about their prices. Prices fell in the first months of the Act from 20% to 70%. This is for the benefit of all citizens, beneficiaries of legal services. It is quite clear that if we move on to an old system that has little support, 18% within the European Union, that practice is there, we will come to a system that will mean that lawyers will decide their own tariffs again. That, in our opinion, is not good. By adopting this amendment, which is part of the transitional and final provisions, we would open up the possibility of re-establishing this matter, even if it were otherwise regulated. Let me remind you of another matter. Current legal tariffs, current legal tariffs represent 60 to 70% of the nominal value of legal tariffs in Germany. Given our Slovenian salaries, you know there's no comparison here. According to the local authorities, lawyers today earn significantly more in relation to the average of the country than German lawyers. With the amendment or the adoption of such a law, we will further increase their profits. That's not good, that's not right, that's not fair. That's why I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'll call again or apologize to the minister for giving you a hypothetical case. Seven Members listened to me before, so I have to repeat it, given how many of us are here. The system you are proposing is a system which means the Chamber of Lawyers sets the legal tariffs, goes to the Minister and the Minister to give his consent. If I were a teacher at the Faculty of Economics and I was teaching some class that would be negotiating for prices - but I'm not, I'm somewhere else a teacher - I'd give the students the next seminar assignment. I would say this: You can imagine all the weight of negotiations for higher prices of legal services. The case is made-up, applies to all ministers and applies to all heads of the Notary Chambers. So I'm saying it in diameter. The former Minister, independent president of the Notary Chamber, President of the Chamber of Law of Slovenia Miha Kozinc, independently writes the prices of legal services. He is independently on his way to his former subordinate, lawyer colleague, now minister, and is proposing negotiations for higher prices. This current minister is, of course, able - quite hypothetically speaking - to tomorrow's President of the Bar. Students, please try to solve this complex task. I think that would be funny. I trust the current minister, and I can trust anyone else, but I can't let them go before they're tempted. Minister, it's not real that he'll hold his hand over such prices. These prices belong to the National Assembly, as they are in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, if I may presume, you will vote in favour of the amendment. In fact, at least that's what we should say in explanation of vote, at least that. Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, at the outset, I'm going to say that I'm going to vote for this amendment, despite the fact that my lawyers actually feel sorry for me. They barely survive from day to day, they don't have money, cars have bad, shoes are worn off, sometimes they have holes in their soles, which is actually bad, because we know how little lawyers earn. Given the kind of information I have, how few accounts some lawyers put out, one would say they're really poor. But it's that direct hand traffic, cash on hand and pocket. The fact that a lawyer should know that this is also a tax evasion, it's not that important, because it's not said that he did a law school by thinking about it, but he could have done it, too, what I know, at what time he was a police officer when he got there, and he put a gun on his desk, and so no professor would have hoped to tell him that he had fallen, but instead he gave him a six. Or that he was doing something years ago. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, that's exactly what they are, exactly what a few of them are, you might as well say some names. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u173	Please, please! This isn't a fun show, please. This is a meeting of the National Assembly. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u174	It's not fun, Mr. President, but I need to suggest to some people that someone might know something. What's not happening? There is no financial supervision of the legal offices. I'm not talking about big offices. That's where you have to go. But go to the countryside a little bit and ask people, and you'll see how they're jamming. For these reasons. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to reapply. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u176	Actually, I didn't mean to come to this point, but a thought encouraged me to do this, about poverty and about the social welfare of these poor lawyers. Remember, I was talking about 16 euros at the budget rebalancing, which are the problem. I was talking about pensions, which are 170 euros -- that is, I come from these places. As poor a lawyer as my fellow Member described him, I have not met him, but perhaps that is true. But it's something I've met, and the Slovenian media has written it, so of course I'm not going to support this marriage because you're poor. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u177	Now we're talking about the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u178	of the amendment that these poor lawyers still have, which my fellow Member forgot, yet they have private planes, private yachts, that they drive their life partners who decide in this country by plane to buy in Milan. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u180	This amendment must, of course, be supported if we are in the rule of law if it is a social state. All those with lower income will be prevented from exercising the right to judicial protection because they will not be able to afford expensive legal services. Obviously, you have invented the original recipe for reducing judicial backlogs in such a way that only the rich and the wealthy, but not the first ones, can exercise justice in the future in this country. By not acknowledgment of this amendment and by adopting such a distorted law, you will allow what we have been opposed all the time, or what we have been able to legislate in the previous term after long sufferings, that the right to judicial protection is granted and made available to all and thus legal services to all, regardless of how valuable they are and what colors they are. By what you do, you legislate the fundamental principle of inequality, you establish it into the legal system, you can really save something at legal costs, but in such a way that those who should be guaranteed the right to legal protection will not receive this right because they simply cannot afford such services. When it is stipulated that the prizes for work or for legal fees are determined, we move to a field where the beach will gradually occur and where individual groups will want to set their own rewards for their work, especially in the area where competition is or is not limited. This is a poor road map for action in other areas and means gradual erosion of the system not only in this area but also in other areas. I'm going to make an amendment, so I'm going to back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Of course, I will also support this amendment, and I am firmly convinced that the coalition should support this amendment. Because it is unacceptable to allow the Chamber of Counsel to set itself a tariff, as well as this "insurance" that this price will be confirmed by the Minister, I think this is a bad excuse. My colleague Gorenak described very well how this process is going on, and I'm going to say here that this solution is similar, as if we were to say to give a "cat to watch out for sausage" is exactly the same comparison. For I am sure that lawyers are already well paid enough to be such a solution as is today, especially for the benefit of citizens and citizens; [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u183	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u184	who urgently need lawyers in the search for their rights and are already subject to quite a lot of pay. [[...]] The excuse that such a solution, such as today, will make it impossible for lawyers to work with dignity or quality. When we were lowering the tariffs of notaries, there was also a lot of debate at the time that notariats would close down, how many of them would be suspended, and as I am aware today, I think not a single notary had closed his office. We know that lawyers are now one of those populations most exposed to corruption, at least so has been published in the survey. This means that there is no valid reason to justify any change in the current system of setting legal tariffs. That is why I think that this amendment should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. This meeting is a meeting of paradoxes. Yesterday we left our hand and you left your hand to reject the amendments to the budget, by which we added or made possible better starting points both for those with low pensions as well as for students, for scholarship policy, scholarship schemes. Today we go to the diametric opposite. We allow those who do not need anything that already has too much, this possibility that they themselves will shape the prices of their services. And here we go in this judicial part, in fact, entirely, generally in this direction. Today we are saving lawyers, you probably have already reduced the number of Notary cities by regulation and reduced competition, so it will be easier to reach higher services. You will regulate and increase the salaries of judges across the entire social scheme. I mean, what this government is doing in this mandate is a paradox that's not a case to him. And that's what the government does, where most of them have the largest Social Democratic Party in the country or the only Social Democratic Party in the country. It does not give to those who are entitled, it is said to pensioners with low pensions, it does not give to those who have problems in education, it does not increase scholarships, but it greatly increases the funds to those who are above the average or above the average of social and social scales. I think it's an unprecedented paradox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the delegation of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. To say at the start that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group rejects and will vote against the law. Let me just say something, because time doesn't allow me much, just a few reasons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced this law into the normative work programme. Look, it's supposed to be, I think, for May, June, here somewhere, and it's on a regular basis. The government has brought it to Parliament following an emergency procedure, and it has already done so. It means that some emergency situations have indeed taken place, but not as the Rules of Procedure foresees, in order to endanger the interests of the State, security interests and so on, but it is clear from our assessment that the financial interests of the bar have been compromised. If they were to argue that the situation is such that lawyers are not represented and that those lists need to be supplemented and so on, for representation, then the Government would change only this article. And if only that article had changed, I would have understood it, understood the emergency procedure, understood everything, and supported any better solution. However, two or three that are impossible are added to that article. First, they will judge themselves for a disciplinary violation, and secondly, they will determine their own wages. Last but not least, the study was already mentioned, look at the STA, it was published yesterday, lawyers are considered by the Slovenian public to be the most corrupt part of individual groups. You can take a look at that. And we're helping them with this marriage. Furthermore, in your explanation, once again, it is re-recorded to violate legal ethics [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u189	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u190	and charge more than is necessary. [[...]] That's great. Now we've officially given them permission. These are the reasons why such a law cannot be supported. It is not possible to agree with such a law, so we will vote against it. I even suspect or believe that it is a matter of saving or returning services. The Bar Association has made an important contribution to the survival of a large former party, which today has few Members, but is here, and has remained alive. And the lawyer's lobby, of course, needs to get things back. And we're returning them in this way, which is wrong, because the taxpayers are going to pay for it to be the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you. Of course, we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. I will be very clear, speaking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. First of all, because the National Assembly committed a serious offence and placed this law under urgent procedure. The only urgency I see in this law is the necessity of filling the pockets of lawyers' logs and lobbying. And there is nothing else in this law that requires urgency. Secondly, we have created European and global uniques, as far as insurance is concerned. I don't know what's wrong with the lawyer's own responsibility. But worst of all, crows don't turn their eyes off. Why do you even give the law the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers? Write that they are absolutely immune to any liability. Actually, they are. They'll decide their own fault. Please, come on! The worst part is that they will share their salaries themselves, in agreement with the Minister, to say that the legal rate will be relative to the market. Well, this country is beautiful, it allows all the crooks you want, but it's just to make lawyers serve so much that they don't know where to use the money. And now they're going to raise and raise their tariffs because there's a lot of demand for lawyers. How can you not allow people to have the right to decide? Now we'll probably get SOS law offices, as we've already shared people into two parts: poor people who go for bad food in SOS stores, and those who can go to normal. Now we'll have SOS law offices. That those who seek justice and never find it will, of course, find it even more difficult. I say something else, if such a law were valid for the lifetime of France Prešern, and thank God it was not, France Prešeren would be a rich lawyer and we would not have the greatest Slovenian poet. I am ashamed that this law will be adopted absolutely without the assistance of the Slovenian National Party following an urgent procedure, which I suppose will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party will vote against this law. We are in a crisis when economic societies are falling, when we have more and more unemployed from day to day and when people are suffering more and more. Therefore, I find it unreasonable that, in these times, regulated legal tariffs should be released and that legal services should be encouraged both for the poor economy and for individuals. What exactly is this solution? For us, it's unacceptable and immoral because of the time we're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Before I give the floor, I would really like to ask you to remain in explanation of vote, not to argue and discuss matters that have been discussed at the time of the consideration of the law. Please, Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will not support this marriage for a number of reasons. One of the first reasons is in the next. You know the situation in which the Slovenian state is at the moment. You are well aware of this difficult financial and economic crisis. Every day a lot of people lose their jobs, a lot of people and pensioners barely survive today. We talked about pensions, 200, 300 and such heights, which are definitely impossible to live with. However, we and this government, which has today proposed such a law for consideration, are dealing with problems that are certainly not the most topical at this time. Why aren't they the most up-to-date? Because the law was adopted in the previous year and there was no reason why the amendment of this law should be prepared in such a short time. I need to raise one question that comes to me. No one in this room can convince me that when this law came to the National Assembly so quickly that there is no possibility of any corruption or clientelistic integration. No one can convince me here, and everyone who is in this room knows exactly that we have key people in political parties, even party presidents, whose men are also excellent, strong lawyers. And from this address, it's clear to everyone how things go in the back. And here I see customerism and corruption. And that's what we need to worry about here. And in the end. I don't understand, and no one here is going to tell me that the solution is that [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A lawyer oversees a lawyer, fair, transparent. [[...]] No one's gonna convince me to do that here. This is the law you're working with, this is the problem you're solving intransparency. That's what you've decided. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I will not support this law, which allows unlimited legal tariff. I will also not support it because it is a law that may have the most impact on the political system in Slovenia in the long term. It has an outstanding political significance. I advocate the transparency of the parties, for the independence of the parties and will not support them in order to avoid the hostile takeover of political parties in the future. I'm in favour of political independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u200	There is no way to support this law for two reasons. First of all, because he's unprofessional. Slovenia belongs to the Roman-German legal group and should, as its first example in regulating the law, have Germany and Austria in mind, where it is precisely an arrangement that we have enacted in the previous term, that the National Assembly lays down and thus limits the level of the legal tariff. Your proposal, however, distances us from this, so it is obviously unprofessional and contrary to the legal order. Secondly, what needs to be pointed out is that this is a profoundly non-social law, which is written precisely in favour of a certain circle of lawyers, certainly not all, but a specific set of lawyers with whom you have connections, from which you probably also receive a variety of services and benefits. And that's what you're doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u201	Mr Grimes, please remain within your dignity. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u202	What, though, is impropriety, Mr. President? What is sad is that all of this is happening at the expense of taxpayers, because taxpayers will pay higher tariffs of lawyers twice: than those we will have to use and as those who will pay public finances when public funds users order legal services. And in the right light, once again, this will shine only when it is seen that you are at the same time preparing changes to the legislation that will require the hiring of a lawyer in those courtrooms, including the Constitutional Court, where this has not been necessary so far. Which, in my opinion, is contrary to the very foundations of the Slovenian Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the bill. The government predicted that this law would change, following a regular procedure. The first submission for consideration by the Government is due to be on 21 July. I don't know what happened. My friend Kozinz must have visited the minister a few times. We're changing the law before we can analyze what changes brought about last year. We know that lawyers have filed an opinion on the Constitutional Court, and I don't know why the Minister won't wait for that decision. After today's vote, the lawyers will obviously win before the Constitutional Court says so. The Minister said that lawyers withdraw from the lists to represent on an official basis because the prizes are not so attractive or the tariff set out there. The Secretary of State said that the lawyers had agreed and that they did not want to represent on an official basis. And, as it is said, lawyers will obviously win before the Constitutional Court says so. And it is unacceptable that you are also changing the relationship within the disciplinary commissions when lawyers themselves accept and impose sanctions, even though you are speaking in your own explanation of the articles about the need for changes, since the Bar itself finds that in practice there is an increasing violation of legal ethics and the charging of legal services contrary to the legal tariff. Then let someone believe that the legal fees will not increase! I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I don't intend to uphold the law myself. In particular, because no amendments had been adopted that would affect the area of legal tariffs. This is exactly the area I find most controversial, because in times of crisis, when the number of complaints may increase that people will recover what belongs to them after a failed company, little money will be difficult to achieve. I would also respond to the situation on the committee when Mr Kozinc addressed the Minister from the 'Zalar Colle'. It bothered me, because Mr. Minister was there in the role of minister of all 2 million and 50 thousand Slovenians, but not within which some 100 could be the bloodbath of lawyers. I was also disturbed by the tone. With such a tone, only the President of the Government, the President of the State, the President of the National Assembly and the three Vice-Presidents of the State may address the Minister, perhaps at home, if the Minister so permits. I'd also like to point out a whole bunch of irregularities that are happening. In the case of high tariffs, there is still business without invoices. Is it any wonder, then, whether any of those poor fellow Jelinčič mentioned is going shopping with an airplane and asking for 6,000 euros, as much as possible in the entire year who earns it? Also, representation under official responsibility is not so arranged that lawyers cannot avoid it. If anyone receives an invitation on official duty, hospital or any other excusable reason, postponement to the next debate. I'd like to see you ever represent a weakly standing client from an eminent law firm. In the end, I can't help but be surprised by the bad image of lawyers after a poll that we were able to track on Teletekst and in the media yesterday. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u208	There was no need to change this law. There was no need for a change in the rapid procedure. Obviously, however, lawyers in this country are among those most affected by the crisis, and they need urgent assistance because otherwise they cannot explain this change. Yesterday you rejected a law that would allow at least partial relief to those who receive between €300 and €500 a month. You have rejected the amendment's proposal, which would allow some in this country to survive at all. At a time when 200 to 300 people are unemployed each day, at a time when many cannot afford to exercise their fundamental rights or fundamental rights, you are reducing the possibility of exercising legal protection to many. With a change of law, interestingly, the Social Democratic Government comes. A government that is supposed to take care of those whose social structure in this country is the weakest. We know they're not lawyers. In addition, this law in force allows lawyers to agree on individual tariffs with the parties. On the other hand, the change will allow the state budget to be significantly more burdened than ever before. The tariffs to be determined will be significantly higher. And when it comes to official representation, it will have to be paid by Slovenian taxpayers. In the case of so-called deleted cases, it will take place in the majority of cases for representation under official responsibility. And in these cases we will pay twice, once for legal protection and twice for damages. It is necessary to vote against this law. Against this, because lawyers will not be deprived of their jobs in any way, they will still be able to carry out their work smoothly forward, and many Slovenian citizens and citizens will be deprived of access to legal protection and, above all, the pockets of all of us taxpayers will be deprived because we will have to pay more for these tariffs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Until the adoption of this law there were only two groups which had complete immunity in Slovenia. They could have done anything, and no one could have touched them. They had immunity from criminal and civil prosecution. One group were Gypsies, one group were judges. Now they'll be joined by lawyers. With this law and the non-acceptance of these amendments, these gentlemen will also have full immunity. They will be able to do what they want when their colleagues get to work, probably because of pressure from journalists or maybe because of some parliamentary issue, and also because of the question they have been asked, it is not said that it will come to this, maybe because of the press pressure, they will agree to say, you know, give it a little less "shit", give it a little bit of cover-up, but not so publicly - and the matter will be solved. I have a feeling that the constituents of this law have somehow followed past Yugoslav history and have drawn out those rivers from Turkish times: Kadija sues the kadija court. And in the Slovenian translation it is: The Judge of the Court and the Judge judge. That's bad. And it may be necessary to ask what European forum is really in line with some democratic principles. Maybe there's something else back here. If we count 27 thousand, 28 thousand, maybe 32 thousand, maybe now 50,000 so-called eraseds, every compensation that goes up to a million euros, the lawyer will be able to take a nice piece of cake, like 500 thousand euros or 750 thousand euros, which is why he needs such a law. And I won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Let me explain my voice against it. I believe that the right to legal protection, to judicial protection, is very important and must be taken into account not only because it is enshrined in the Constitution but because we are considered a legal state. However, the State has also prescribed that all these rights are available to citizens only through legal services. It is said that the State has prescribed lawyers for the exercise of constitutional rights. And the country should ensure that this path is also possible, that even the simple people or those who are not the richest who are not tycoons, so those who live from the work of their hands can come along this path to these constitutional rights. This, however, is only possible as Minister Sturm has done in order to set prices for notaries in line with the example of European democratic countries, to set prices for lawyers and thereby make this path to justice more accessible. Unfortunately, with this law, you step back and in the era of recession, and so on, social democracy again makes this difficult for all those who do not have fat wallets.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Ravnikar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. To colleagues who are experts in conspiracy theory who see further developments that have something prophetic in them and to all those who hardly say anything without lying, I thank you for the three characteristics of the existing system, which they have repeatedly highlighted. In summary, Jerai's colleague was the most systematic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u215	Please, don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u216	No, I won't, because I'm just going to count, which is why I'm going to vote. The weaknesses of the system that was established last year are: more prizes beyond tariffs, less legal certainty and less representation under official duty. The government went against it to intervene. Secondly, which is why I'm going to vote because it's lying about representing on official duty. If my friend Chernač happens to know [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] If any Member, including the one who has now responded [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u217	That's better!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u218	Knows cases where this should be represented under official responsibility, let it say so, because it is always needed in criminal proceedings where very serious matters are involved. [[...]] Only in this case do these acquaintances also have a reporting duty and have them enforce it. And third, which is why I will vote, because it is also lying about the legal nature of this law. If the Minister gives his consent, the Government has thus entrusted him with a special responsibility to take care of the appropriate tariffs, otherwise the sanction imposed on him, but not to impose certain prices on the entire National Assembly, this assembly of price-setting experts. The use of lies would be slow for those who first deleted the social name from their name [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u219	Please, Mr. Ravnikar, let us remain in explanation of vote. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. I can't support this law in any way. I protest that this law has been dealt with by an emergency procedure. As an emergency, lawyers are actually allowed to raise their tariffs as much as they will themselves. As the emergency procedure allows them to deal with themselves in the event of disciplinary proceedings and to protect their potential proven guilt and lumbarity by means of an emergency procedure. Of course, it will take a lot of effort to prove itself. Therefore, I would suggest to the coalition and the government that, following an urgent procedure, a new law called the Inviolable and Privileged Act be introduced immediately tomorrow, as it is now apparent that the Bar Association or lawyers are becoming solicitors. And who, of course, will pay for all this? We have said many times, they will pay our taxpayers, they will pay our citizens and our citizens, because today you are without legal protection certainly not able to think any more about normal life. There is none among us who, at least once, some even repeatedly, do not need legal aid. We all have no choice, we all have only lawyers who will have high tariffs [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u221	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u222	charge their services in a way that will then be inaccessible for most of us. [[...]] It means that we are in a subordinate position, especially those with low incomes who will need legal protection. That's why I don't support this law. This is a step back from those standards that we have adopted in the past mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I ask again for an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Once again, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that they should really explain why they intend to vote in the way they intend to vote, but not to dispute the views of others who intend to vote differently. That's the point of this voice-explanatory institution, and I'm asking you to stick to it. The debate was about time, and we are now in the voting process of the law. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. Since lawyers cannot set their own legal tariffs and because they cannot judge their own disciplinary offences under the current law, this is the reason why the law is adopted on an urgent basis. This is the basis that the interests of the security and defence of the country are affected, that this is a justification for the natural disaster and that this is a difficult remedy for the functioning of the State. These are three reasons why the law can be dealt with under this procedure. And the coalition has abused this in the College, as well as the Minister, who is also a lawyer himself and has violated this proposal by the Rules of Procedure. At this meeting, we are facing two platforms of modernisation. One modernisation means blocking the rights and assistance of those who need them, such as pensioners, these are students, these are students, these are rural pensioners, and on the other hand, we are modernising systems that are probably not needed, these are lawyers, such as widowed persons after the former pensioners of the Yugoslav People's Army and the latest modernisation, which is likely to be the largest, will be the modernisation of the system deleted. This one's already in progress. And these are the reasons why I will not support this marriage. I am also very concerned that the Minister, who also abused the procedure, did not, in fact, wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to settle and clarify and decide in this particular case, but is probably aware of what the Constitutional Court's decision would be, hasty and, following an urgent procedure, proposing amendments that the Constitutional Court's decision would probably not order. And this is particularly an abuse of the rule of law and not just the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Since the Minister can't answer, just a correction, the Minister has never been a lawyer. I give the floor to Mrs. Darji Lautijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, I'll support the marriage myself. I also argue that this law would have shown to a greater extent to amend and supplement, and I believe that this urgent procedure was introduced because some of the provisions of this law now in force are of such a nature that they have already caused irreparable damage, and the applicant has also argued that a smaller number of those lawyers who are prepared to represent the parties on an official basis and who are also willing to provide free legal assistance. It is not true that lawyers in disciplinary proceedings and only they will judge the potential disciplinary responsibility of lawyers. At all stages of both the first and second disciplinary commissions, external members are also involved, and also in the disciplinary court, then at the third stage, the Supreme Court judges are involved, so that is not what some claim. I think it's a good solution, so I'll support it. With regard to the tariff, the Minister's consent to the tariff, which, otherwise, is previously proposed or determined by the Chamber of Counsel, also ensures that the Minister's consent is, in fact, represented and protected by public interest. So I'm going to uphold the law. However, in the previous term there have been many cases where the applicant has rushed to amend the law before the Constitutional Court has ruled on a dispute before the Constitutional Court. There are quite a few such cases, but please see the minutes for the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you very much. There was a problem with me, so please take this into account. It was said that if there's something wrong with lawyers and if they don't do something the way they should, they abuse it and so on, then report it because it makes sense, right? But we quoted this from the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which stated in article 6: "The Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia notes that in practice more and more infringements of legal ethics and charging of legal services are contrary to tariff." So let the government take action against lawyers and not us individuals. That's one thing. It was also said that the minister would be punished if he failed to comply with the law. I didn't find any stipulation in the law that the Minister would be punished, and it would be wrong if that were the case. And another explanation why I will vote against it, Mr President. We just heard he's instituting the Supreme Court's law. Of course, he introduces them, and the new law introduces two supreme judges and three lawyers. The current situation is the other way around, two lawyers and three supreme judges. So, a monopoly in favour of lawyers is introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 28. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Black Mountains on development cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour force in the context of the second hearing, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is on the defence motion for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and profit taxes. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour force in the context of the second hearing, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the National Assembly will consider seven proposals of the Judicial Election Council with proposals for decisions, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Rules of Procedure and a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Commission. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. A) We are moving on to the consideration of the seven proposals of the Council of Justice for election to court by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted seven motions to the National Assembly for election to a judicial office at the higher courts of the Supreme Court of Ljubljana and six district judges at the District Court in Slovenia Gradc, Brežica, Kranju, Velenj, Domžalah and Koper. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Brigita Markovic as a judge of the higher court in the Civil Division of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sabine Slemennik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 3. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natalia Abram to the District Court in the District Court in Brežice. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Irena Ahačič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Tjaše Osolnik Bulajič to the District Court in Velenj. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Loduka to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maja Radesič to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. B), we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of Vice-Presidents of the Rules of Procedure Commission. The proposal was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Commission. The proposal was tabled by the Zares Group, the Social Democrats' Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 6a, which is the consideration of the draft law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, the urgent procedure. Qualified applicants announced yesterday that an amendment should be tabled in the context of the third reading. We are therefore going to discuss and decide on the two amendments tabled to Articles 8 and 13. I am putting Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8 into the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u230	With this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that credits under the guarantee scheme law should not be used for the purchases of companies or their shares or for the repayment of existing loans hired for these purposes. If I simplify, it's the so-called managers' buyouts or the refinancing of these management buyouts. If this amendment does not receive support, then we can understand that the purpose of this law is not what was originally foretold. If this amendment is not adopted, then in the Slovenian Democratic Party we estimate that the loans under this heading, i.e. the guarantee scheme, which is intended primarily for the start of the Slovenian economy and the release of the credit crunch, will also be used to refinance the so-called managers' buyouts. We know that this procedure has not yet been fully concluded, that the recent situation has changed it. Some, those who started their activities in time there shortly after the 1990s and successfully brought them to the first stage of their conclusion before the global financial crisis, have made their intention almost complete. For example, Mr Šrot, Pivovarna Laško, a former member of the Social Democrats, managed to bring this process to an end. However, he still lacks some funding for the refinancing of individual loans in a given area. Another case ended somewhere in the middle of the procedure. These collectors were a little later in this case than the one I was talking about, which was discovered only after the former government passed a takeover law that allowed the collection of collectors to be discovered. And this process has to some extent endangered Slovenia's largest bank, Novo LB. In view of the fact that the same staff dominates the structure of this bank, the previous bank director, Mr Kramar, LDS, the current bank director, Mr Veselinović, LDS Member, Mr Bavčar, the recipient of the loans in this title, LDS, is very concerned that the loans will also be earmarked under this guarantee scheme law in the future. This is also mentioned by some of the moves of the previously mentioned bank and some in December, so during a period when Slovenian companies, small and medium-sized Slovenian companies, were unable to access credit funds to repair liquidity and enable normal production. During that period, some of the managers who carried out the buy-ins came to refinance loans of some 10 million euros in the week or two with these biggest Slovenian banks or with the New Ljubljana Bank. All of this, I think, is the reasons behind the support of this amendment. The purpose of the law, as proposed and endorsed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and by a number of amendments, was to release the credit crunch. The aim of this Act was to allow the widest possible range of enterprises to access the resources they urgently need to continue their production, for new investments, for a new start. As a result of this credit crunch, a number of companies are still blocked and the arrangements in force or the schemes in force do not allow them to access these funds under normal conditions. We believe that the proposal for this amendment is more than justifiable. It is intended to prevent the use of these funds for nemens to whom it is not intended. This is why we will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, this support does not mean much. If you do not support this amendment in the SD, LDS, DeSUS and Really Group, it will not be accepted and this purpose, which we propose, will not be achieved. For this reason, I urge you to support this amendment and that we all accept it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, Mr. Willie Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. A lot of words have been said, but all you have to do is explain. This amendment doesn't hurt, but it's welcome, but it's not a special benefit. If it were not for this amendment, the dictatorship would be: if the loan was intended to buy businesses. Now it is: if the loan is intended to buy out companies or their shares. What Mr Montenegro has explained would be important to interpret the previous dictatorship, that it is only a hundred per cent purchase of businesses. But no one thought of it, and it's welcome, it's more precise, but it's not meant for what's been bombarded here. That's why we're going to support him, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you very much. There's still a debate. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u234	I'll explain the voice on my behalf. I will, of course, support this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u235	Mr. Chernač, there is still an open debate on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u236	Well, whatever you call it, I'll tell you why I'll back him up. Because the dictatorship, as it was adopted, does not prevent what I was talking about. In most of the cases that I was talking about, it wasn't about buying up businesses, it was about buying up companies' shares. If this amendment is not adopted, then these shares that are purchased in these cases, which I have mentioned, cannot be prevented under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, we are coming to a direct vote. We therefore vote on the amendment of the SDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was discussing this amendment yesterday, and I was doing a calculation on my mind. As a result, this calculation was not accurate. Now I have made an accurate calculation of what this relatively small change we are talking about. We are talking about a commission of 0.02 or 0.05, but we need to look at what the law says. In addition, it is necessary to say that what we are now proposing with the amendment has been adopted unanimously by the committee chaired by Mr Anton Rop. It means that, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, what is now proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group with the amendment was unanimously adopted. And we see no reason not to accept it today. However, since you rejected this proposal yesterday, we are again deciding on it on the basis of the amendment tabled in the third reading. This Article provides for a commission and a credit management refund. The refund, the law says, is paid quarterly at 0.02 or according to your proposal 0.05. This means that in 10 years, as far as credit can be obtained, under this law, EUR 200 million for the quota of EUR 9 million 600,000 for borrowers on our proposal and EUR 24 million on your proposal. If this amendment is not adopted, all borrowers will pay 24 million euros in compensation under the full quota [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u239	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u240	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. [[...]] There's that difference. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that we have a certain, independent compensation in this Article, including a commission for this loan, which is fixed as a percentage of the credit rating classes 04055058. According to the billion-million-million-dollar quota, this guarantee fee amounts to €7 million annually or €70 million in 10 years. What does that mean? This means that these costs, although we have reduced them to a minimum in the first part of the committee and to a minimum in the second part, but you are now proposing a raise, are not so small. They amount to almost a tenth of the credit quota, 94 million euros out of a billion 200 million euros. This is the revenue of the state budget. It was probably not the purpose of this law to fill the state budget with this. The purpose of this law was to allow as many companies as possible access to credit. Of course, some compensation must be paid for this: for approval, for processing and so on, but it was not the basic purpose of doing so. The basic purpose of the law was to release the credit crunch. For this reason, we do not think it is good to fill the state budget on the one hand with this law, by raising commissions over what is absolutely necessary, and, on the other hand, to instigate loans to those who urgently need them. For then they shall approach them more selectively, to a lesser extent, and the purpose of the law shall not be attained. For this reason, we propose that you confirm this amendment, because this will only confirm what was confirmed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in its first reading or meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. My debate will not be as long and comprehensive as it was from a colleague of Montenegro. I would just like to point out that, with this slight change, we increase the fees for the approval and management of credits by 2.5 times. Two and a half times. And that's a correction factor that's not very small. And I think, if we have put in place the whole concept of these guarantees so that they will be approved and implemented at as low a cost as possible, it is appropriate that we also maintain the level voted by the Committee on Finance. It is said that at the time it was estimated that 0.02% is the appropriate level of costs to manage this guarantee. I don't think there's any need to increase this amount by 2.5 times, because for these costs, we burden those that are actually intended for them, and we lower that value. At this level, as Montenegro has said, it is about EUR 14 million, which this change, which is seemingly very small, follows. And these 14 million euros will not go for the purposes provided for by the law, but for this to return to the costs of those who will also run the scheme. I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Dear associates and coworkers! The numbers we've heard are, unfortunately, not real. The figures are based on assumptions that do not hold, as they do not take into account the basic dynamics of obtaining and returning credits based on these guarantees. Why do I say that? Because refunds, as we know, will start after 31 December 2010 and the basis for payment of refunds will be reduced each year. So the number we've heard doesn't hold, and it's a lot smaller than it was told. Number 2 - we do not increase the refund by 2.5 times, but we reduce it by half, that is 50%, given what was the original proposal. The number 3 - these refunds are in line with the minimum recommendations we receive at the European level, also linked to the European Union's recommendations at the basic basis points for determining interest on the guarantee scheme. In addition, it must be said that the costs for the operation of the SID of the bank should be provided mainly due to the relatively high quota allocated to the collateral of the C group of creditors. We can expect at least 25% of the loss due to such guarantees from this rating group. This means that the SID Bank will unfortunately have to deal with recovery as well. These recoveries are costing and these refunds are intended for this very purpose. Now we just have to ask ourselves who's going to pay you. Whether they will be paid by the borrower through the remuneration will mean 0.2% on an annual basis, no more, or whether they will be paid by the budget, i.e. all citizens and citizens. That's all this is about. If we reduce now, the costs will remain, instead of the borrower, the one who will benefit from the loan, we will all pay for it. Even all those for whom it is more or less demagogic, and this is, of course, a matter of an individual's assessment, you take the floor. Finally, it is the autonomy of the Slovenian Investment Bank itself. It is either to provide the bank with our resources so that it can act autonomously or to decide that this bank will live off budgetary resources. I disagree with the second alternative, as I do not agree with the decision that the recovery costs will be borne by every citizen or citizen. I think that these costs need to be met by those who benefit from these loans. And these are the borrowers. And that's why I support the remuneration of 0.05% at the quarterly level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. I also believe that the amendment must be supported for everything that is said. I come from the fact that the Committee has already adopted such a proposal. Two-and-a-half times that. If I break my fingers from 0.2 to 0.5, it's 2.5 times higher. But to make peace in the house, I suggest we go from 0.5 to 0.10. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u248	Mr Luka Juri is a member of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and this proposal was not opposed by any member of the Committee. But yesterday you voted the raise from 0.02 to 0.05. That's the first conclusion. Second point. The law speaks in the first paragraph of the annual guarantee fee according to the level of the principal. Don't talk about the reduced principal. And in the third paragraph, it says "in addition to commission also quarterly compensation for the costs, preparation and management of the guarantee of 0.02", or after what you accepted yesterday, 0.05, "from the height of the principal", does not speak of the reduced principal. The law in this part is perfectly clear. Even if it wasn't. The difference between 0.02 and 0.05 is very clear and obvious. It's 2.5 times the budget's income. This commission is the revenue of the budget, as you have said several times, and I have also said several times [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u249	I'm asking for some quiet and quiet in the hall. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u250	that it was probably not the purpose of this law to dissuade those who otherwise have the need for liquid credit in order to borrow such funds by way of excessive fees. [[...]] But if the commission to manage these costs is too high, then this instrument will not be used by the company because it will act responsibly. They won't be diving themselves in advance. For this reason, the Committee has reduced the originally proposed commission, which was proposed at a higher level in the first paragraph by the Government, to a minimum possible level that is still permitted by the European Union directives. And that's covered in paragraph one. However, in the third paragraph of the Directive on the height of this commission, they do not speak. We're free here. For this reason, the Committee adopted a reduction in the originally proposed commission proposed by the Government from 0,05 to 0,02. This means that if we look at just one year, instead of 960,000 euros, it means 2 million 400 thousand euros. This amount is no longer so small that it would not be subject to discussion or validation of this amendment, which allows lower fees to be incurred in any way contrary to any directive and without thereby being deprived of the State budget. This will make these loans more accessible and more favourable to those for whom we are actually adopting this law. That's why I suggested we confirm this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri also has the word. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, after this debate, if there is still a desire for a debate, I will propose that after this debate, I should like to take the decision that each of the Members and Members should be able to discuss within a time of five minutes only once. But now I give the floor to Dr. Luke Yuri first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I'm going to talk for 30 seconds in front of a brief debate. Yes, I am a member of the Finance Committee, and I supported the amendment. Then I got a look at the data I didn't have before. But if I get better information, and if I can make a mistake, I can fix it. And for this reason, I now honestly and transparently tell you that on the basis of the new data, I believe that this height is more appropriate. Point 1 and point 2, costs will anyway. Now it is only a question of whether the borrower will pay them or whether the state budget will pay them through this amendment. Make up your own mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor, I propose to the assembly that it adopt a procedural decision that from now on each Member and Members shall have five minutes to discuss this amendment only once. It's a five-minute business arrangement. Please, let's make a decision. Who's up for that? There are 48 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted and is valid from now on. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u254	So what was said [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Calm down! I know it's Friday afternoon, but it wasn't me who blamed this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u255	Please discuss the amendment. Peace in the hall will be mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u256	What has been pointed out to be a dilemma under this amendment, whether these costs will be paid by the State budget or by the borrower, is not true. That's not true. This amendment only states that these costs are reduced from 0.05 to 0.02 by 2.5 times. That's all it's written. The person paying these costs shall be included in the existing text of Article 13. So don't say anything that doesn't hold up, and fool the public, yourself, and everyone who sits here. In this case, it is simply a matter of simplifying whether those who take these credits will be significantly more burdened by having to pay more costs or not, while you will not enrich the state budget because there is not enough funding under the State budget to be dependent on their state budget. But you're going to stop a lot of people from accessing these funds. And if the Guarantee Scheme Act is not enforced as you wish, and if two thirds of these funds are not established, then write this story to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor, then Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Two arguments Mr Cernač had in favour of this amendment or the justification of this amendment, and he would advise him to verify his calculation well that he would not mislead the public or the parliament. This is 0.02% or 0.05% or 0.5% of the protease and check your calculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, if you will allow me to say at least three, four sentences in peace, because our Member of Parliament and her neighbour, Anderlich, have very many comments on all those we are discussing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u261	Look, Mr. Tanko, I'll make order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u262	Please, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u263	Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u264	Look, I would point out only one fact that this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance, chaired by Mr Rob, unanimously. Mr Rop is not anyone, Mr Rop is a former finance minister, Mr Rop is the former Prime Minister of the Government and Mr Rop is the current Chairman of the Finance Committee. And if this amendment is to be broken now, then it means that Mr Rop has decided on this committee where the amendment was adopted unanimously and reduced to 0.02 to act and decide after ignorance. I do not allow or have difficulty thinking about having someone run a financial committee, both in this way and in that way and voting there that he does not know what he is voting on. Perhaps because of what is happening to you and this change of attitude, Mr Rob is not in the vote today. That says a lot. I suggest you consider whether this increase is necessary twice or not. In our view, this huge increase, two whole five-fold increase, is not necessary. And Mr. Trophynik, I'm not wrong, 0.02 and 0.05, factor 2.5 is in between. Big change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Only a replica is possible because you were named. Otherwise, the debate is no longer possible. Replica, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u266	Mr. Tanko, I didn't even argue with you about an increase from 0.2 to 0.05. This is really two and a half times, even though you mix with your colleague the notion of relative and absolute. I didn't say anything about it. However, I have advised the calculation of the absolute amount of EUR 24 million that Mr Montenegro has announced. I'm not gonna count it because I think everyone has to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I'd like to say three rivers or talks. Whoever wants it understands. Anyone who doesn't can't. Smarter quits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u269	Thank you very much. There's no more debate. As no one wants to discuss the conclusion of the debate on Article 13 and the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to Article 13. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been adopted. We're done deciding on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the draft law, I am informed that I am giving the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Kamnareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Given that Article 1a was voted in the second reading yesterday, we note that there is a discrepancy in the law and it is essential that the text of Article 1a and Article 9 be harmonised. I therefore propose that we accept the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. The harmonisation amendment was announced yesterday as part of the conclusion of the debate. He was foretold before we predicted we'd table amendments. I'm guessing he wasn't on time. You predicted or the chairman said that the amendment had to be tabled by 10 a.m. and the government didn't stick to it. So I suggest we stop looking at this in peace. Thank you very much. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u273	Dear Mr. Tanko! I'm sure you're wrong. Regardless of when the Minister announced the harmonisation amendment yesterday, the formal forecast of the harmonisation amendment came after the finalization of the two amendments of your party in the third reading. That's why you're now receiving the harmonisation amendment at the table. I hope you got it. And this amendment was perfectly correctly announced today after the two amendments and the third reading vote. So you're wrong. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I can read it. Dr. Franc Križanič: "The government has a harmonisation amendment, namely, that the term "banks" is replaced by "beneficiaries" and therefore Banka Slovenije is included. So it's an amendment to Article 9. This is missing there, and this needs to be coordinated accordingly. You have accepted the amendment because it has failed, and this must be repeated once again under Article 9 alone." And Mr. Potch: "Thank you very much. Without question, the Government has warned that the adoption of the amendment has led to non-compliance with Article 1 and has prepared a harmonisation amendment. I ask again if there is anyone else who would like to propose." And that's when we proposed. This was predicted to be purely correct and formal and fine, but this government failed to do in one day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u275	Dear Mr. Tanko! Formal harmonisation shall be determined after the third reading has been completed or before the full vote on the draft law. Regardless of what the Minister announced or proposed yesterday, the fact is that qualified applicants have tabled amendments for the third hearing. We concluded this, the government representative said that the law was not harmonised, she proposed a harmonisation amendment. I hope you got him on the bench. Does anyone want to discuss this harmonisation amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate on this amendment and moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I told you before, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u277	I'm sorry. I'm sorry I didn't hear that. Are you proposing a 10-minute recess before the vote? We've completed our explanation of vote. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Does any of the parliamentary groups or Members want to explain their vote? [[He doesn't want to.]] That's why I'm taking a vacation until 16/13.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-27-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u278	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We're in the voting phase. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday 30 March at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much and very much. In doing so, I would like to inform you that an hour and a half before this is also a lecture on Knowledge of Harvest. Dr. Križan's lecture on the latest developments and results from physics. I invite you to attend.
