ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am initiating the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Rudolf Petan, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Miro Petek, mag. Franc Žnidaršič and Mr Roberto Battelli. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 7 April 2009. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. Please, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. After reviewing the allocation of the announced time and also after reviewing the request you sent to the parliamentary groups, I note that the applicants were not invited to design or announce the time and you have set that time yourself. I therefore propose that the meeting be suspended in half an hour, that the College meet and that we set time for the debate on behalf of the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Dear Mr Tanko, in exactly the same cases as the National Assembly on the initiative to call for a legislative referendum, has also considered an initiative to give such an initiative to the Constitutional Court in the light of the determination of possible unconstitutional consequences, and if the mother labour body has adopted a decision that the National Assembly should be asked by the Constitutional Court to assess the possible unconstitutional consequences, in such cases the proposers themselves did not have an introductory explanation for their initiative. This time it is right for Members to have the opportunity to take a decision or not, and they must decide on it. It is therefore right that the proposer of the initiative has this opportunity to present the proposal to the Constitutional Court within a period of five minutes. Therefore, of course, your proposal for an interruption cannot be accepted, there are no business reasons for it and we simply continue the debate or the agenda item. Would you like another word, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I propose that this proposal be made or accepted by the Committee of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be the one who decides on the duration of the meeting. I note that we have agreed there on how the meeting will take place, we have set time, and I also note that, on the basis of a letter sent by Mrs Margareta Atelšek, there is no written-up candidate of the point as one who can announce time. At no point in the agenda discussed in the National Assembly may pass through the announcement of the time unless he has resigned himself. However, if it is thus excluded from consideration, I do not think that this is appropriate and it is also necessary to provide the applicant for the item with an appropriate time to discuss. If the Government has two hours to discuss at the said point, then there is also a proposaler, who is only one in this case, because the point is a request for a legislative referendum, and there are not two candidates, he is only one, he who has submitted this request. I therefore suggest that you give this proposal time, as we subsequently forwarded it to you. In the event that this time is not allocated, I propose a re-half-hour suspension of the meeting, a reference by the College and an agreement on the allocation of time to the proposer. For everything else, I believe it belongs to the opposition's hard work package when its demands are invoked. It has happened several times in the National Assembly, including in some other cases, when the proposers of the individual points in this mandate were placed in a very difficult position. When we got on Friday, when everyone had gone home, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the extremely short time limit for us to respond to such an opinion and prepare an answer. This request, or this proposal, which you have put on the agenda or this allocation of time, also falls within the context of the fact that the opposition party, who is one of the candidates for this request, is limited time for discussion. I do not think it is appropriate, in terms of political hygiene, that the proposer does not have or has only five minutes to discuss, while everyone else can discuss as much as they want: parliamentary groups from 20 to 90 minutes, and the Government, which has exclusive status in this mandate, has two hours. That's why I suggest you stop this meeting and call the College. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u5	See, Mr Tanko, once again, I must reiterate that the mother's working body has proposed to the National Assembly a decision requesting the Constitutional Court to decide whether the request for a legislative referendum and the retention of the law would have any unconstitutional and unconstitutional consequences. This is the decision to be discussed and therefore two should be mentioned as the applicant in the introduction. By way of warning you: if this decision is voted and the case goes to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court decides not to expect unconstitutional consequences, then you will have the time, as proponents, to report for further consideration of the request itself and also the motion for a decision. It is therefore necessary to see this case as the first step in two steps if the Constitutional Court so decides. If not, then the procedure will have to be concluded and the request for a referendum rejected. So there is no reason for us to feel deprived; no reason for us to treat you unevenly. Reverse. In a similar case, a few years ago, the applicant of the request, when his mother's working body suggested that he should go to the Constitutional Court, had no opportunity to present his position, this time he has it. This is because the National Assembly has to decide whether or not to take the decision. This is extreme correctness, and I think your demands are unfounded and unnecessary, and I will not convene the College, nor will I interrupt the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to warn you that years ago we had a different Rules of Procedure for the National Assembly. If you refer to him, some things were different there. However, I would like to remind you that you have convened a meeting of the National Assembly with one item on the agenda: a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. And the point is not addressed to the Proposal for Decisions concerning the debate and decision on the request of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Constitutional Court to decide whether the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery or its refusal to refer to the referendum could have constitutional consequences. You have called the agenda item as proposed by 33 signatories, which has the title - I will read again - The request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers, signed by Jože Tanko. And on behalf of the applicants, you have limited the time spent on this item to only five minutes. I propose that, in line with the reference to the meeting and the title of the agenda item, we also make an appropriate adjustment to the time for the discussion of the applicant, even because Mrs Margareta Atelšek, in an e-mail sent to the members of the groups, has left out the proposal to make the time available for discussion as well; whether she has done so voluntarily or in agreement, there is another issue. However, the proposal drawn up in this way is not correct to the proposers of the point. Mr Saiovic, who is a signatory to the second requirement, will be able to discuss this point. The working body has adopted its position, but the title of the agenda item is as proposed by 33 signatories. And I propose that you allow this time for discussion. How this has been regulated in past mandates, however, is a matter of past mandates and the rules of procedure of the previous reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u7	So, once again, the point at today's meeting is the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers, it is addressed correctly and corresponds to the topic of the hearing. The fact is that the mother's working body has decided to refer the request to the Constitutional Court for an opinion on the possible unconstitutional consequences, which simply means that the National Assembly must clarify this. It may be clarified that this Decision is adopted or it is declared that this Decision is not adopted. If this Decision is not adopted, then all the procedures expressed in the request for a legislative referendum shall be followed. This means that the procedures after which I will suspend the meeting are under way, and, of course, I will impose on my mother's working body to draw up a proposal for a decree, and, of course, the matter is moving forward. Therefore, the point of the agenda as well as the one with the introductory word and how many introductory words is quite logical. And there is no dilemma or question. Also in May 2005, when the proposal for a consultative referendum on the areas of the provinces was proposed, for example, the applicants also had a standard of five minutes. After all, there was less government there, and now he wants more. The question of whether this will benefit - in any case - but this matter is strictly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the rules of the game so far and, above all, reasonable and logical in view of the fact that, in relation to this legislative referendum, we also have a proposal to refer the matter to the Constitutional Court in advance. So I have to reject your suggestions. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the defence of the request for a legal referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refoulement. Please, Mr. Tanko. You wanted a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Did you get to the point?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u10	You've closed the case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u11	That's right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Now it's going down the script like you wrote it. [[...]] However, I must protest that this scenario is such that it is not normal for a hearing in the National Assembly to be held if you want a debate from me now. The proposer at each point has always had the right to declare time. The College was determined when the time of the applicant was possibly too long or disproportionately long to correct it. The same was true of the government. In this case, the Government has a significantly longer announced time than all parliamentary groups. I believe that because the Government has too much time, we should call on the College and set a different time, or at the College, we should agree on what the time is for the Government when it is not a candidate for the point. This is what it is in this case. I believe, or I am sure, that you have done business in the interests of that part of the National Assembly, which is in the opposition. And if you want the meeting to take place normally and also to set up a practice, some communication in the National Assembly also forwards, I suggest that you assign or agree to the proposer of the item for a different time than you wrote it yourself, without proposing anything, and that you suspend the meeting, call the College, and that we also decide that later. So that the matter will be acceptable, both for a coalition that has too much time, for a government that has too much time, if you look at it like that, and for a candidate of a point that doesn't have any time. At the very least, the President of the National Assembly should be balanced in this call and should represent the National Assembly as a whole to ensure that the interests of the coalition and the opposition in the National Assembly, as well as those who propose a point and defend the points, are represented in a proportionate manner. In this case, the matter is regulated exclusively in the lobbyist interests of the government at this point. And I must say that, on behalf of the Group of Members, I strongly protest this way of working.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I've already said my point of view and we're moving on. On 7 April 2009, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to jointly address the request for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, and the request of the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed mags. The Council of the Saiovics to discuss and decide on the request of the National Assembly for the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not to postpone the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery or its Rejection at the Referendum could have anti-constitutional consequences. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted a decision that the Constitutional Court decide whether, by entrusting the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery or its Rejection at the Referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. To Borut Saiovac for further explanation, the proposal for a decision. Please, Mr. Tanko. Just a moment, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Just another question. Is the report, which is the condition for the meeting, the continuation of the meeting divided by Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u15	Yeah, right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u16	If it is not available, then I suggest that the meeting be suspended until we have all the relevant materials necessary to address the item at the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u17	That's right. Mr. Saiovic, I'm sorry. You'll get the report on the bench right away, now, so I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. It will continue at 13.29 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. One more word for it. Now that the report has come - see, on the basis of the letter received by the parliamentary groups, I note that the Government has not been invited to announce the time. The government has two hours allocated. I would like to know on the basis of which document - for the preparation of the meeting you normally send a single document - the Government has been given two hours to discuss at this point, which is not relevant, which is not, say, an interpretation. While the proposer of the point was not asked either, you gave him five minutes. It is said that the allocation of time was apparently created in the Cabinet of the President of the National Assembly - the Cabinet is a little wider, not just the President - and that there were 5 minutes allocated for the proposer at the beginning of the point, although none of the candidates announced any time, and in the end after 5 minutes for the proposer, while the Government received two hours on the basis of the same document. Such disproportionate allocation of time for debate, Mr President of the National Assembly, can only be speculation. This can only happen when the leadership of the National Assembly, for speculative reasons, decides on how the time will be drawn up for individual participants in the debates of parliamentary groups, proposers, governments and working bodies. This can only come about for this reason. And already the announcement of time, the allocation of time to the Government, which is very disproportionate, which has twenty times or more time available, 5:120, is sixty times that time available or thirty times that time for discussion at the same point of the agenda. And there's no proposal for a point. And this only means that you will defend, in a disproportionate manner, the legal tariffs, the transfer of this provision to the chambers and so on. If you are not going to allocate time differently and call on the College, then it is almost pointless to be involved in such a discussion, almost pointless. I must object and point out that, in this mandate, the Rules of Procedure have been misused, that the usual practice of the work of the National Assembly has been abused, that the practice of working in the College has also been repeated over and over again in this mandate. And, unfortunately, Mr President, even though you were the Minister of the Information Society, it is precisely the field of information technology, information from the groups of Members, entirely with the documents we receive from the parliamentary groups, that is, the weakest point in this mandate. Once again, I suggest that you assign the hours of recess, call the college to agree there, and we will be able to participate equally in the consideration of this agenda item. Otherwise, you can also agree under the glue, everyone else, you do not need to call the meeting if you continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In this break, which was due to the distribution of these reports, I have once again checked and received assurances from the professional services that the secretaries and secretaries of the parliamentary groups and the Government have been informed of the announcement of the time that this has taken place and that it is just as it is. I said my position on the suspension of the sitting and the reference of the College, I do not intend to change it. We are now here to give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mr Borutu Sajovic for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State! I'm glad we're finally going from packaging to content. The right country is the rule of law, which is where legal certainty is guaranteed to everyone with the system, but not with money, and we therefore consider that today's meeting is necessary, as is the urgent adoption of a new law on lawyering that corrects a bad law that in practice means chaos in the rule of law and does harm to people. Of course, there was a whole bunch of black, negative readings and thinking in the media. It is therefore correct for the public to know that efforts to call a referendum are contrary to the Constitution, as in our view, contrary to the Constitution in the previous term, the Sturm law on lawyering is adopted. Much has been heard about this marriage, and only the facts are important. None of the above findings have a basis, it is an attempt at political demagogism and an attempt to cover up the mistakes of the past government and bad law. The law, the past, is full of holes, and they are essential: the existing law in practice has brought us today to the brink that the perpetrators of the worst crimes will soon walk freely around instead of the murderers, rapists, robbers and pedophiles being in custody and where their city is then. This law makes free legal aid impossible for citizens and citizens at the social level during the economic crisis, when we have 80,000 unemployed, eleven thousand of them received and had free legal assistance last year, and now we are making their legal security worse. This law also imposes a significant burden on the state budget, as in cases of public procurement with high tariffs it allows for the enrichment of large qualified law offices in particular. The amounts that lawyers are increasingly applying in accordance with Sturm's law, since the previous regulation, where the legal rate went up to a maximum of three hundred and several euros, have now risen to as much as one hundred and eighty thousand euros and more, and the tariffs, as in Elan's case, are certainly not the case. It is in the interest of all of us not to allow this, because if we allow it, the consequences for the rule of law will be disastrous. The adoption of the amendment to the Law on Lawyers is a deliberate and urgent move that will provide people with free legal assistance, save the country high amounts of money, pave the way for the legal loopholes left by the previous law and ensure by the Constitution a certain status of the legal profession. Freedom of attorney is guaranteed by the Constitution and the lawyer is certainly a free profession. Just imagine what it would be like to be given the services offered by electricians, ceramics and others in the National Assembly. Thus, the National Assembly cannot and cannot determine these prices because this would certainly be unconstitutional. It is precisely this weakness of the past Sturm's law that lawyers are exploiting today and have the possibility of blackmail in court, of refusing free legal aid, and so many people in this country will be wronged. These lawyers even announced a systematic rejection of the representation of people in free legal aid procedures and in criminal proceedings two months ago. Of course, they know the laws well and know what holes in the existing bad law enable them, so it is unacceptable and a novel of the Law on Lawyers to correct this shameful state, damage to citizens and citizens. All those who advocate the implementation of the new law wish to improve and correct this unacceptable and harmful situation; the referendum initiative, of course, is of a political nature and makes this situation worse. The fear that the proponents are trying to seize in public is too great. The amendments adopted by the Law on Lawyers increase the legal security of citizens, I stress once again, lowers the prices of legal services in cases where existing tariffs are too high, and - do not forget that a reduction in tariffs in cases of public procurement is necessary for the country. Today we want to restore everyone's trust in the rule of law because we believe in it and our citizens and citizens deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, mag. Branku Grims, to further explain the request for a legislative referendum. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Good-bye to all of you! Why, today, the coalition has decided and given the floor to the one who opposes the right candidate, namely the SDS, but has limited time to five minutes, while the Government has 120 minutes to conclude the debate, that is to say, 24 times more than the candidate - in fact, the ruling coalition has only confirmed that Mr. Jože Poglajen, who wrote in the newspaper that the horrid adoption of the Law on Lawyers was the biggest political mistake of the ruling coalition, because it pushed the opposition into the hands of the chronic argument that the current government was working exclusively for the benefit of very narrow groups, while it was acting against the great majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens. By what you have done today, you have proved that Mr Jože was quite right. How do you know for yourself how bad your arguments are, you have proved by limiting our time. Then we'll go through quickly. Your key argument is that this story is not supposed to be about the amount of legal fees that, as we have just heard some claims, would even increase after the adoption of new legislation at the time of the government of Janez Janša. You have put yourself on a lie with your own material because you have attached a record of the Bar, which I quote: "President of the Kopra Bar," I state, "the main problem is that the legal rate has been reduced by 66%" - that is, by two thirds, that is exactly as we have always claimed in the SDS. You have presented this yourself as an official document and have completely put yourself on the lie; for the next time I advise you, at least read what you submit. And then he is attracted to the President of Oz Nova Gorica, lawyer Ivan Makuc; the President of the Oz Celje lawyer Alexander Cmok; the President of the Oz Council of Lawyer Danila Kostevc, who also says that they have already prepared signed declarations of withdrawal from letters for free legal aid. It's your own material, it's you who introduced it, not us--and you totally put yourself on a lie. Apparently, that Murphy marriage, whatever they're telling you, is really about money. At the moment, for the money from which a narrow group benefits and to the detriment of all citizens and citizens. Let's move on, the second argument we've been listening to all the time, even if the tariffs for audit procedures have risen. You know what's more attracted to hair, but it would be really hard to make it up, because if you wanted to fix it, if a mistake was actually made, then a little change in the law on legal tariff would be sufficient. Therefore, there was no need to amend the law on lawyering, and this is even less reason to withdraw the constitutional right to referenda from direct decision-making to the entire people, who in democracy are the real and only holders of sovereignty, all other forms of the exercise of power. For the Constitutional Court, when it shall decide on this matter, if ye vote it, shall in truth decide on more constitutional rights; for also the right to a referendum, to a direct decision of the people, therefore, shall be a constitutional right and be gravely distorted or hindered, irreparable if the referendum were not. And with this kind of argument, you just confirmed what I said at the beginning. But the funny thing is, you've already lied to yourself twice with your own material. Thirdly, your argument - regarding the lack of lawyers on the lists. Look, I'm quoting your own material again. Specifically, the president of the Ljubljana Chamber of Lawyers, Alenka Kosorok Humar, said that the opinions of membership are shared, certain members are now mass-declared, ladies and gentlemen, and others are also checking out - they are mass-declared. That is to say, if the ruling coalition would not only act as a lever for the realization of the interests of that small but obviously very loud work, which, in its extortion of higher tariffs, even affords itself the fact that it withdraws from the free legal aid list - and these are certainly not all lawyers, far from that - then there would be no need to change the law at all. Then, in time, things would obviously come together on their own, and by no means what comes from your own material, the third time you've faced a lie, there's no reason, no argument to postpone or prevent a referendum. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Sir, try to finish the presentation, five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u25	It's here. [[....]] I will do the rest because of your outstanding democracy, when you gave the Government 120 minutes and five minutes, and I will tell the proposer five later, and I will therefore ask for the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee for the presentation of the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! At its 9th urgent meeting, on 8 April 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the request of the Group of Members and Members of Parliament with first-signed Jozet Tank to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers and the request of the Group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Borut Saiovic to discuss and decide on the request of the National Assembly for the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by deferring the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery or its Rejection at the Referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences, by means of a proposal for a decision. The Committee was also informed of the applicant's agreement to amend the referendum question with the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the position of the Government on the proposal for a request by the National Assembly to the Constitutional Court to decide whether, by delaying the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery or its Rejection in the Referendum, there could be unconstitutional consequences. On the basis of Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee shall, on the proposal of a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Borut Sajovic adopted the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considers that, as a result of the suspension of the application and possible rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery, adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 27 March 2009, the effects of the required legislative referendum arise which are not in accordance with Articles 2, 15, 20, 22 and 23 and the second indent of Articles 29 and 34 and 137 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 21(1) concerning Article 22 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, requires that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position. Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government has adopted a position on the proposal for a request that the Constitutional Court be asked to decide whether the postponement of the amendment of the Law on Lawyers or because this law would have been rejected at the referendum could have constitutional consequences. In the opinion of the Government, the referendum requirement may have specific extensive and articulated anti-constitutional consequences, namely consequences which would be inconsistent with paragraphs 2, 15, 20, 22, 23, 29, 34 and 137 of Article 137 of the Constitution. According to the government, the amendment to the Law on Lawyers does not protect lawyers. On the contrary, the Government considers it unethical that lawyers have decided to take a collective retreat from the list of advocates on official duty or from the list of lawyers providing free legal assistance. However, this situation is due to an extremely weak now existing law on lawyering, which was adopted in the previous term, which allows lawyers today to decide freely whether or not to provide free legal assistance and compulsory formal defence. Therefore, the amendment to the Law on Lawyering, which we are going to talk about today, protects citizens and not lawyers. For the government believes that the weakest layers and the socially weak, or especially them, must be protected, to provide quality judicial protection, provided only by lawyer representation. The government therefore wants to prevent the security of all of us and of our property, which is linked to the role that lawyers play in criminal proceedings. In fact, if the amendment to the Law on Lawyers had not been established, then it would not have been possible to set up a detention against everyone if he had not been provided with a lawyer under an official obligation, as provided for by our Constitution and the Criminal Procedure Act. Nor could criminal proceedings be brought against those persons who would have been charged with a criminal offence for which a sentence of eight years has been threatened or worse. In doing so, the Government wishes to point out that a consensus has been reached in the legislative process on this issue between the positions and the opposition, that it is necessary to settle this issue in the law on defence in a way that allows for the provision of free legal aid and compulsory formal defence. Therefore, the Government considers that a referendum on this issue and possible rejection of the law could lead to serious anti-constitutional consequences that would take longer. And because the referendum legislation is written in such a way that it works under certain prohibitions, then the Government and Parliament of this matter could not have arranged otherwise for a certain period of time. The government also draws attention to the very real occurrence of these unconstitutional consequences and refers to specific cases that have already taken place before individual courts, including in Krske and Nova Gorica, where the rejection of the participation of lawyers in criminal proceedings has already led to the first serious problems. These first serious problems were also the basis for the Government's decision to intervene in this area with a legislative amendment following an urgent procedure. The second reason which relates to this first and relates to free legal aid is, in the view of the Government, also such a nature as to cause serious anti-constitutional consequences and relates to the provision of free legal aid. Data on the provision of this free legal aid for last year, 2008 show that 11 000 people were treated in Slovenia in this way. 11,000 people who have so low incomes that they can't afford representation by a lawyer. It is the right of the poor, which is guaranteed by our Constitution to everyone, and if lawyers are no longer prepared to provide advice and representation services to these people in judicial proceedings, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in all court proceedings, then the Government considers that there is a serious and very large-scale anti-constitutional effect. [[...]] For this reason, the Government proposes to take a decision and send a referendum request to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin with the concluding words of the Minister of Justice from today's meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. I quote: "In the opinion of the Government, it is right to leave this matter to the Constitutional Court to decide." That's a lot of duality and condescending! I ask you, Mr Minister: Do you by any chance know that an initiative has been put before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the relevant provisions of the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyerial Tariff, which the Constitutional Court has not yet stated? Questions are being asked in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Why was such an effigy and the speed of changing those provisions of the Law on Lawyers, whose constitutionality is judged in the Constitutional Court? Is it possible that the ruling coalition expects a solution to the Constitutional Court that would prevent them from fulfilling their pre-election promises or content that is actually at the heart of today’s dispute? Or is it your intention to separate the referendum from the date of the European elections and, as a result, during the crisis we are in, to cause additional costs of carrying out the referendum, which, after this manoeuvre with the Constitutional Court, will not be able to take place on the same day as the European elections and thus without additional costs? Given that the Law-Legal Service also says that it is not possible to agree with your claim that a decision or rejection of the law that has just been adopted would have a counter-constitutional effect, since the unconstitutionality of the current regime is not established, we are really interested in what is behind your request. Let's go back to the content. The basis for the introduction of the tariff system, as adopted in the previous term in 2008, was the findings of the Slovenian courts and the findings of the project of close interinstitutional cooperation, "twinninga", between the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Germany, financed by the European Commission. On its 600 pages, the Chamber notes, inter alia, that the greatest obstacles to the swift and effective resolution of cases in the courts are in the rules on legal compensation, which is also confirmed by the opinions of Slovenian judges and courts. The Court of Labour and Social Affairs in Ljubljana, in its 2007 Labour Report, states that until the adoption of a new, more appropriate legal regime for the award of lawyers, it cannot be expected that they would be stimulated to complete proceedings as quickly as possible. The rules on compensation to lawyers have encouraged the delay of proceedings, since they have been paid according to the specification of the acts carried out and therefore do not have the slightest interest to complete the procedure as soon as possible. The amendment to the Law on Lawyers in 2008 introduced an amendment to the fact that the lawyer was paid after a new one, for example. Thus, the customer is aware of the price of the service in advance and the whole concept is directed in the direction of the lawyer reaching the conclusion of the dispute as soon as possible. There is no need to stress what this means to resolve the judicial backlogs of our courts. And let me also remind you of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is already paying damages because of the decision of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg due to long-term judicial proceedings. Let us address another problem, the so-called violations of the same protection of rights or the right to an advocate and the proceedings of the Slovenian Bar Association and its regional associations. The applicant for a decision on the unlawful consequences of the referendum decision as an argument of non-constitutionality provides that the current regulation of the Law on Lawyers does not ensure the effective implementation of free legal aid and compulsory formal defence under the law on legal procedure, since lawyers are allowed to choose to cooperate in this. However, according to the proposer and the government, they are moving out of this system in an organised manner. The request for an extraordinary meeting shall be accompanied by several minutes and conclusions of the Regional Bar Associations. Their contents are really very interesting. Let's have a look at them. Let me go straight ahead and point out as the first to the exit of the lawyers of the Celle District Bar from the list of courts. The decision states that an individual lawyer who does not attend the Regional Bar Association in Celje and disagrees with the decision must explicitly inform the Court itself that, despite the above decision, he remains prepared to provide services under the new tariff. Very interesting, there's nothing to add; a strange and twisted logic for our concepts. Even if we are trying to figure out how to decide at these meetings. Regional councils of lawyers shall, after a certain period of time, become final irrespective of the number of participants. Of course, the number of members of such congregations who have taken such decisions is nowhere to be seen. We believe that in the vast majority of cases, a handful of the loudest and most influential lawyers have decided on the vast majority. Not all lawyers throw in the same basket, but a handful does things the way they are. That this is true is also confirmed by the fact that actual listings are limited. Let's see what the president of the Regional Bar Association of Ljubljana says: "Some members are now mass-declared and some are mass-declared." That's interesting. There's nothing to add. Let us look further at what is really behind this so-called intervention in the constitutional independence of lawyers and the independence of their profession. I quote the minutes of the Management Board of the Bar of Slovenia. The main problem is that the tariff has fallen by 66%. Lawyers will not work at this rate. In this way, the work of the courts will be blocked, making it a problem for the Ministry and not for lawyers anymore, as if it were not a problem for the whole country and for everyone to do their job as it should be. The minutes also show that all further presidents of the District Chambers of Lawyers join this opinion. What shall we say? This is a disgrace to us! Let me read to you what the Code of Professional Ethics says among other things: "Let the lawyer know that he is obliged to provide legal aid by his social role." And also: "Representation and defence of the socially weak is the usual and honorable task of lawyers in the performance of their legal profession. This task shall be performed by a lawyer with a special understanding." As I have seen so far in the public eye, they perform this task when they are being marketed, when they need to set up their ratings and then put themselves in effective defence. I'm sure they're also doing a lot of damage to this country. Clearly, there is something wrong with our society. Ethics, morality, ethical behavior - what is it? Nobody cares about that anymore. We are in a society where value has become greed, greed, profit, greed, exploitation, not to mention further. It is also menacing and frightening that such values are also advocated by the ruling policy. Small people are not important; the interests of influential and rich stakeholders that influence daily policy implementation through their lobbying are important. And the pressure of such influential and rich stakeholders has, unfortunately, fallen under our government's policy. We will not support the proposed decision in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. It is right that such a solution to the law of lawyers be stated by the people in the referendum, I stress, on such a solution to the law - not on the law as on the law. And we don't see anything completely at stake in this. We find it controversial to attempt to limit this right. And even more controversial is the government's response to pressure -- the pressure on a rich lobby in general. I don't count all lawyers in a row, but it's an influential lobby. In these difficult times of crisis, when the job loses 200 to 250 people a day in Slovenia, we are confident that none of the lawyers will lose their jobs, nor will they lose their good profits despite this reduced tariff. Even under current tariffs, we are convinced that they can walk well. In these difficult and difficult times, we must by no means allow even the slightest possibility of further enriching the richest layers at the expense of the simple citizens. Once again, we do not support this in the Slovenian People's Party and it is a shame that this is supported by the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u33	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are once again witnessing the demagogies of one side and the like but unfounded atheisms of the opposition. They also point to the need to change the referendum system, which will not be used for political manipulation and the spread of non-truths. On behalf of the LDS, I will only point out once again the key facts that point to the unconstitutional consequences of the proposed referendum. At this point, we must put ourselves in the position of those poor Slovenes and Slovenes who, because of a system that allows a lawyer to refuse free assistance, will not be able to exercise the rights guaranteed by our constitution and the law on criminal proceedings. The second consequence may threaten the safety of citizens and citizens. Why? The defence of official duties is compulsory with a suspect of serious crimes, where detention should be ordered. For the Court appoints such a suspect, who cannot afford a lawyer himself, on an official basis, precisely from those lists of advocates from which lawyers are now mass-dealing. This may also pose a threat to citizens and citizens, as detention can also be ordered if there is a risk that the suspect will repeat the offence. If the amendment of the Law on Lawyers is not soon published in the Official Journal, we will meet with the results of such inappropriate arrangements daily and then we can only ask ourselves what we have done for the safety of our citizens. The only change in the tariff proposed by the amendment of the Law on Lawyers is its reduction in the procedures for the revision of public procurement procedures, as tariffs are falling to an appropriate level. Such a solution should be absolutely supported not only as a austerity measure, but primarily as a reasonable response of each good master. Once again, we stress that the issue of the legal tariff is a professional and non-political issue, which is now becoming even plebiscite, human, and certainly politicised with the proposed referendum. Therefore, it is no longer possible to discuss the content objectively and with professional arguments. We could even say that the proposed referendum indicates that the opposition's original problem is not a tariff that is not regulated by this law, because otherwise the opposition would have put forward a proposal to lower these but they are not. In fact, it is the coalition's approach to seeking consensus and a balance between a free economic initiative, lawyers and public interests, contrary to the previous coalition's approach, which regulated the issue by force. In the LDS, we advocate a novel that provides free legal assistance in the procedures of the most socially weak. Another thing we would like to make clear in the LDS: constitutional decisions must be respected. As early as 1989, the Constitutional Court, in another constitution, decided that the legislator should not directly affect the price of legal services and that only the Minister of Justice, but not arbitrarily, could do so by negotiating with the Bar Association in the amount of the awards at the level of the legal rate. In this decision of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court at that time sincerely stated what independence and independence of the Chamber of Counsel meant in determining the legal tariff. In the LDS, we estimate that all these arguments testify against the proposed referendum. During the current economic crisis, jobless workers on hold, pensioners with unemployed descendants, mothers with children and many others will need more and more free legal assistance, which will not be feasible and will cause further damage as a result of delaying the implementation of the law with the proposed referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The applicants for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers justify their request on the basis of the fact that the amended law is intended to allow lawyers of higher legal tariffs and thus higher earnings to the detriment of citizens and citizens, as well as the budget of the State and Communities. If that were true, they haven't proved it until now. And if this was the only objective of the amendment and the amendment of the law, the applicants of the request should be agreed and their request for a referendum should also be supported. But the facts speak in a completely different way. Amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers to further affect the level of the legal tariff only at one point, i.e. in determining the tariff for participation in audit procedures. This is by reducing the applicable legal rate, as prescribed by the so-called Sturm Law, by 20 times or more, since the prizes from 6,500 to 33,000 euros, as far as the new tariff allows, are reduced to a maximum amount of EUR 1,400. In all other cases, all the legal tariffs remain unchanged, as laid down by the law proposed by the former Minister Dr. Sturm. The amended law will therefore not raise but reduce the applicable legal tariffs, especially as regards representation in audit procedures, which is important for reducing public funds to this end. If the referendum is announced and the referendum succeeds, the country will have 20 times more and higher costs to carry out the audit procedures for public procurement. This is why the proposed referendum is unacceptable and why the argument for it is not realistic. Moreover, as regards the level of the legal tariffs, it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to determine at least the extent to which the candidates for the referendum did not offer an objective picture. The motions for a referendum state that they wish to ensure by a referendum that no higher tariffs would have been imposed if Dr Sturm's law had not been in force. In fact, the situation is reversed. I'm asking him to show up and tell us how the legal tariffs actually changed. The legal tariffs have been reduced only for representation under official responsibility and in the case of free legal aid, and this is not in the interest of citizens, either in favour or in the burden of the budget which must cover these resources. In order to reduce the budget's obligations, it has come to the conclusion that lawyers no longer want to represent the parties in court at a price that is indeed lower than the previous one and that unacceptable consequences will arise. By the way, gentlemen, tell me whether it is true or not, how much they have increased or decreased to the value of the dispute by means of the so-called Smurf Law of the Bar Association. Indeed, up to EUR 5,000 of the value of the dispute has fallen slightly, and over EUR 5000 of the dispute has increased significantly. And now tell me that the value of the 5,000 euro dispute in the estate case, if it occurs, in border disputes, in any other case, in property disputes represents a value that is unattainable or which is rare. It is not true, it is very common and there are very few conflicts below EUR 5,000. And it is right to say this that we will at least know that the proposal the opposition is making does not, in fact, provide a better position for people as regards the legal tariff. Unfortunately, however, only a debate on the legal tariff and its level cannot be the reason why the coalition could demand a constitutional review. So we had to find other reasons. The following reason stated by the applicants for the referendum is based on the assumption that the modified procedure for determining the legal tariff for lawyers will be more favourable and worse for citizens. The only argument for their claim is the fact that the Bar Association will be involved in setting the legal tariff and that the Minister of Justice will have to give his consent to the proposed tariff. Applicants for a referendum claim that a greater guarantee of reality is the level of tariffs if they are decided directly by the National Assembly. However, they do not say that even in the case of a tariff proposal, the Minister who will be proposed by the coalition will have such authority in the coalition government. The opposition is really contradictory. On the one hand, he claims that the coalition wants to increase the legal tariffs and its impact on certain tariffs, while on the other hand, the opposition offers not to do so through its minister, but through the Minister indirectly by deciding the coalition majority in the National Assembly. That's ridiculous. You keep telling us that the opposition is not involved enough in making decisions, but that it is only a coalition that decides. Now you are offering us to do this and say that on this basis the legal tariffs will be more fair, better, possibly lower. It is right to say that a clearer picture will be taken if the Minister, who will also be able to answer to Parliament before the public for his proposals and for his decision and is unable to make an excuse for a majority in the National Assembly, which has taken decisions. It is a much clearer and more direct responsibility of the Minister if he gives his consent to the tariff, because if there is a suspicion of customerism or corruption, the National Assembly and also the opposition represented in it may introduce a parliamentary investigation or interpretation against the responsible minister. In the National Assembly, decisions shall be made only over the years at the next regular elections. The candidates for the referendum shall have no valid reasons to call for a referendum. However, this fact does not change the duty of the National Assembly to call for a referendum if it has been requested by more than 30 Members and Members within the prescribed time limit. And that's what happened. The sense or incomprehensibility of the referendum, the correctness or impreciseness of the argument for the referendum, the waste of time and money for the implementation of the referendum The National Assembly, under the applicable law, has no right to judge. The referendum must be signed. It also allows for a decision to be taken by a small proportion of citizens and citizens. That's irrelevant, too. Such a referendum can only be a political move, it can only be the vote of the electorate and the electorate, or the prejudication of the ruling coalition created by the opposition parties. Even if we know all this, we have a referendum to call. The only possibility for the referendum not to be signed is the Constitutional Court's decision to have an anti-constitutional effect by enforcing the law at the referendum. Fortunately, the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative has such a provision, and this provision has been applied by the coalition Members and Members in the belief that, if a referendum were to be signed and the law passed on it, there would be unconstitutional consequences. The most important reasons for this assessment are the three. If the law is not enforced or is not enforced, the defendants in criminal proceedings cannot be afforded formal defence by an official counsel, which is not only a violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law and equal protection of rights, but may also result in endangering the life and property of others, since without an advocate against persons who have committed serious crimes, prosecution, prosecution or detention may not be allowed, even if the reason for the detention is repeated danger. Therefore, if such an accused, because he does not have an advocate, cannot be brought into custody, a case may arise that was years ago due to the inaction of the police or the prosecution, perhaps both of which are already evident and the result of the death of the person also discussed by the National Assembly. Another time. Until the law is enforced, without professional assistance in exercising their rights before the judicial authorities, all those who cannot afford to pay first aid, first advice or free legal assistance in the conduct of judicial proceedings because of their social situation. There have been some 11,000 such cases in the past year. The courts shall determine the representation of such persons from the list of those who are willing to undertake such work. The social weakest will be in the event that such lawyers are no longer available, with their constitutional right to judicial protection, and in fact will not be able to exercise their rights for which they will be deprived. In both cases, it is said that in representation under official duty and in representation as free legal aid, the reason for the unconstitutional consequences will be directly linked to the failure to amend and supplement the Law on Lawyerry adopted on 27 March. The law proposed by Dr. Sturm did not provide for a solution for cases where lawyers do not apply for a list from which they are then selected on official duty or for free legal assistance. However, the amended law adopted by the National Assembly provided for this obligation of lawyers to determine that when the President of the Court finds that the list of lawyers is not sufficient for the implementation of the Institute of Advocates under official duty or free legal assistance, he shall appoint a lawyer by alphabetical order of all lawyers. The new law, which the members of the opposition oppose with a request for a referendum, guarantees legal certainty and constitutional order, and therefore would have consequences for its non-constitutional effect. This should be emphasized in particular. This is not only a hypothetical assumption, but it is a possibility of actual situations, because some regional chambers have already established their positions so that they will no longer advise lawyers to apply for this list. Members and Members of the Social Democrats condemn such behaviour by lawyers and consider it unacceptable to be a form of pressure and to act contrary to the legal profession, legal ethics and morality. Sadly, though, such criticism of morality is not enough. Marriage solutions need to be found to prevent this. And we adopted them in a law we adopted on 27 March, enforced them and found them, and the opposition wants to disable them with its legislative referendum. This needs to be said, and this can be one of the major consequences of not initiating a constitutional assessment of the referendum requirement. These two reasons, in our belief in the Group of Social Democrats, are sufficient to pose a serious risk that the enforcement of the law, or it knows, may lead to unconstitutional consequences with regard to the exercise of essential constitutional rights. It is therefore justified to make a request to the Constitutional Court. A third major reason, however, is the possibility of jeopardising the exercise of the functions of the rule of law and the social state, since, as a result of substantially increased legal tariffs, public procurement procedures could result in significantly increased burdens and budgetary resources, which I hope we all feel today, and we all know that this country still needs to carry out its legal tasks, including in order to realize the principles of the social state in the face of growing problems that arise as a result of the financial, economic and social crisis. The failure to implement the principle of Article 2 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social state is therefore a reason for our request to be judged by the Constitutional Court. Let me get this. The motions for a referendum do not address any issues which are essential in terms of safeguarding the rule of law. And that is why I hope that, after today's debate, when we understand the essence of the problem, the referendum's proponents will have to consider whether their referendum is really justified and whether it pursues the objectives they want to convince us of. If it is only a question of the level of the tariff, then their referendum is in no way justified. The tariff remains unchanged, except for the issue of audits, no one can claim that it will be changed in due course. I have already said on my mother's working body that I am prepared, on behalf of most Members of the Social Democrats, to promise that the tariff change could only take place through a truly democratic process in which the opposition in the National Assembly would also participate. For this reason, the reason is only in the tariff, which is not reduced by the proposal or by the law proposed by Dr. Sturm, but vice versa, is even increasing at many points. This cannot be the reason for the request for a referendum. I expect that the applicants in this request will continue to consider that we will not accuse each other of who is more or less guilty of the referendum, who respects it more or not, or that it will be possible to enforce it at the same time as the call or the holding of elections for the European Members, which is all in the game, but that we will find together that the problems can be solved in a much better, more democratic and efficient way than the request for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you, fellows. We have an interesting topic: the opposition is proposing or, in accordance with the legal provisions, proposing a referendum and we have a coalition that opposes this referendum and proposes that the Constitutional Court decide on it. It is practically a typical parliamentary, not a struggle, but a confrontation of different positions, where the two halves will each defend their own position. That's normal. For this reason, I do not know why the President of the National Assembly, forgive Mr Gantar, has granted himself over the Rules of Procedure, without the consent of the College, 120 minutes to the Government. I don't know. And I don't know why the opposition has three times less time to discuss today than the coalition and the government together. I'm not happy with this kind of procedure in the National Assembly, and I'm not used to it either. Allow me to move on to a topic that is extremely parliamentary: two conflicting positions, which is legitimate, which is normal for Parliament. In order to understand the debate and the request, which we will also vote on, to have the Constitutional Court decide on it, we must first know what Smurf's law entails. We need to know what happened before Sturm's law last year. Well, some of the characteristics that are most crucial and talk about very important things, namely the legal tariffs. We have heard different opinions that this tariff has not even been reduced, that some have practically increased or are at risk of an increase and so on. Let me tell you a little bit more about what it looked like to pay before Sturm's law. Before Sturm's law was passed, lawyers charged each writing individually, each main consideration individually, each claim individually, each preparatory role individually. Article 5 of their tariff stated that a lawyer, alone, may unilaterally raise this tariff for so-called special expertise, which was practically applicable to all economic disputes, beyond the consent of the parties. Never did the client know how much the trial would cost her, never, never, not at all. The Storm Act introduced a different approach. Thus, he abolished that payment by individual documents, by individual actions, by individual orders and established a payment system for example. Therefore, the costs were known in advance as to how much the matter would cost. And this Storm concept of legal tariff was linked to judicial fees. How? In such a way that the lawyer was interested in completing the procedure as quickly as possible. That's the main difference. In the past, lawyers have been stretching procedures, stalling, for once they have gone into the case, then it was wonderful to draw this case from the judgment, from the claim to the claim, to delay further complaints, additional papers, because each time they charge nicely. Storm's law broke it. That's essential. This makes it impossible to compare individual scenes, individual papers, so to speak, but the whole. And in total, the prices of legal services with the aim of legal certainty have fallen by about 50%. It is therefore a transfer of the German model to Slovenia. And after this German model - Germans have been working with this model for a very long time. In these cases, 80% of all cases end early, prior to the main treatment. They end with mediation, settlement and so on because lawyers are stimulated to conclude the procedure, to mediate, settle and so on. In our country, however, they were stimulated to stall until the Storm Act. And if we're talking about the German case, we should also say that, according to Sturm's law, the prices of legal services are lower than in Germany, 66% of German tariff, but our gross social product is only 66% German. This is said to be quite comparable to German. Let me say that this problem of delaying judicial proceedings, creating, in a sense, those procedures that have gone on indefinitely, which have also led us to many times before the European Court of Justice, has long been brought to the attention of the courts. And when Sturm's proposal was being considered, in public hearing, the courts were also asked. In a row, they identified themselves as Smurf's law that he was very good. Let me quote only the District Court in Ljubljana, which stated on 6 February last year: "...that we have warned in the investigation department years ago, as is evident from the annual reports on the department's work, that the legal tariff should encourage lawyers to contribute with their cooperation to the acceleration of criminal proceedings, but not as is the case that it is in their interest to delay proceedings." Further, the District Court says: "We appreciate that the new regime also on the part of the participants in judicial proceedings, that is, the parties and their lawyers, encourage a faster resolution of judicial cases by limiting the unnecessary sending of substantively empty applications and the transfer of orders and by promoting a negotiated settlement of cases." And the obvious fact that we are something special when we adopt Smurf's way of setting up legal tariffs is to say that in two-thirds of European countries, legal tariffs are wholly or partly determined by Parliament or government and not by the Bar. To include Austria, Belgium, Greece, Italy, Germany, Poland, Malta, Slovakia, Ireland, France, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Luxembourg, Romania, Sweden, England. I don't think Sturm's law was a bad solution, but you made a proposal to the coalition, a request for the Constitutional Court to decide. That's a legal proposition. We do not oppose this proposal, you have the right to demand it, absolutely clear that you have the right. And we take this proposal seriously. However, we cannot take seriously the reasons, the evidence that you are justifying that if the referendum were to succeed and the current novel, which we just adopted last month, that is to say, not the Smurf Act, but the law of the current Minister of Justice, if rejected at the referendum, would become or would result in unconstitutional consequences. You listed them in four categories. I'm not going to read them all, but I'm going to touch myself in order. First of all, you claim that Sturm's law threatens the provision of free legal aid and the exercise of obligatory formal defence when a prison sentence of more than eight years is at risk. You argue that for a short period of time, lawyers no longer apply to solve cases where a party cannot pay because it is below the poverty threshold and that the state should pay for its defence. This is free legal aid. You claim that these lawyers are running out who would be willing to work in defense for the price set by the state. It all shows that it is some form of a silent sentence, blackmailing them into setting their own price again, and the Minister sees no other solution than to yield and allow them to reshape their prices. I doubt that's the only possible solution. More. I'm sure this is the worst possible solution. The worst not for lawyers, but for residents seeking legal protection. It is not only that the state will pay so much more for these cases, and those below the poverty threshold will not pay for it, they do not care, but it is those who are above the poverty threshold for the euro, and they will also have to go to the wallet and pay much more than Sturm's law. And as I said, they won't know how much the process is actually going to cost, nor will they be able to calculate when the process is going to end and they're going to drag it back to life, over and over again, new complaints, new papers and so on. Imagine that there would be another public service, and this will certainly happen, for it will be a precedent for the success of a quiet sentence and a threat. Next minute, I'd expect the doctors to say we won't be on duty if you don't pay us. And it is also stated in the Code of Ethics that in urgent cases, regardless of pay, it must help not to leave the job until it receives compensation and so on. Similarly, we have in the Code of Ethics or in the Code of Professional Ethics, where Article 37 speaks, that the lawyer is obliged to provide legal aid to the parties if the client is unable to pay the lawyer's work properly, that is no reason to reject legal aid in emergency cases. Are these not emergencies, if customers do not have money, below the threshold of poverty? And all those who refuse this aid, although well paid by the State, are still well paid, not as much as certain lawyers want, is it not a violation of this code? And now I'm coming up with a different solution: these lawyers should go to the Bar and lose their license. But that's not going to happen, because in the background of the entire project, the whole blackmail is exactly the Bar. It does not come to the Minister's mind, as it is in health care, that the Attorney's Chamber should be deprived of public authority. No, it's not. I'd rather raise prices, relax the gentlemen's welcome to come and help those who can't afford it. I must say that reports by the Ombudsman each year have reminded us of this problem that the Bar Association does not provide disciplinary safety or efficiency in the work of its disciplinary authorities in cases where citizens, and this is very often the true Ombudsman, now the Ombudsman - says: "The citizens often express disappointment at the inefficiency of the work of the disciplinary bodies of the Bar Association." Dissatisfaction with lawyers is like dissatisfaction with the courts one of the main complaints in the Ombudsman’s annual report, and this is therefore a problem that we must not overlook. And it warns the National Assembly every year, since I am a Member, since 2000, that the affected person must be provided with an effective way of complaining. Regrettably, we remain here at this point in order to run out of lawyers who will be prepared to defend those who are below the threshold of poverty at a state price. We're coming up with some weird solution that I'm worried about and I can't really agree to. This would certainly not be the reason for the collapse of the current law at the referendum to become an illegal, unconstitutional situation. There are other more effective ways, more needed to ensure legal protection for poor people as well. In point 2, you represent or substantiate your request for an opinion before the Constitutional Court by jeopardising the rule of law in the field of public procurement review. Here all possible comments were made and discussions were made. Let me just mention that before Sturm, a lawyer in one criminal procedure earned or had to pay him 25,000 euros within two months. This is one criminal procedure that costs the state so much. However, the lawyer not only served in this case but also dealt with other cases and was paid for them. With Smurf's law, there's a different approach here. It's not in itself conceivable that a lawyer will be paid by the state. But only when it turns out that the invitation to tender was wrong did the State Audit Commission determine the procedures in which the tendering procedure was wrong. This would avoid what Slovenia suffers in public procurement, such as artificial stalling, new complaints and the like. It should also be mentioned that if the law fell on the referendum, there would be no unconstitutional consequences. And the third time. You say, if a country sets tariffs for lawyers, then it interferes with their independence and independence. This is the philosophy that we have already heard in defending the independence and independence of the judiciary. They too need to determine or be able to set their own wages, otherwise they are not independent and independent. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, let us set our own wages so that we can be independent and independent so that we can be an independent branch of power. I think that others, such as university professors, will have to set their own salaries to be independent and independent, as well as law enforcement authorities, the police, have to set their own tariffs and we have to exclude them from the payroll law, because otherwise they will not be independent and independent. That's weird. Very dangerous philosophy. Independence and independence have nothing to do with pay and price. Independence and independence shall be independent in the assessment of the case and in the decision on the case. Like a doctor with a national salary, he is completely independent to assess the patient’s condition and to decide on therapy. And the fourth argument, which is drawn to the hair, because Sturm's law is still pending before the Constitutional Court, would have been strange if this law had fallen to the referendum, and the Constitutional Court would have found that Sturm's law was also unconstitutional, gentlemen, but why were you rushing with the amendment of the Law on Lawyerry, if the Constitutional Court had not already assessed the previous one? [[...]] We certainly are, and we will be before that, because you certainly have enough votes to decide and agree that this will be decided by the Constitutional Court. Honestly, I don't know what the decision will be. Some of my colleagues say that there will certainly be a referendum, because it is impossible, because the Constitutional Court cannot oppose, it cannot impose such reasons as I have just stated. And I say, I don't know anything. We've already experienced everything from the Constitutional Court, all possible gentlemen! And I don't know what he's gonna decide. And I fear that credibility will be even lower, the credibility of the Constitutional Court. Let's hope it doesn't. Let us hope that the Constitutional Court will be aware that great rights, constitutional rights, the right to referendum, the constitutional right of the inhabitants to decide on the law, and the Constitutional Court will be aware that the right to legal certainty is also a constitutional right. There is no legal certainty if the lawyer we wrote down as an emergency passenger in the search for legal certainty is not available to people at some reasonable reasonable price. It's not for free. It's for a reasonable price. This is the basic condition for constitutional law, to ensure the constitutional right to legal certainty. And tariff management is essential for ensuring legal certainty for all residents as defined by our Slovenian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First, a few words on the timing of today's debate. He's trying to wake up the impression that the opposition doesn't have enough time to discuss. If we look at the supplementary explanation Borut Saiovic, LDS, 5 minutes; the supplementary explanation Branko Grims, SDS, 5 minutes; SD 90 minutes; SDS 90 minutes; by already this morning three and a half hours and a half hours of discussion, we discussed last month, and I am sure that I will also hear three more times in the debate that Mr Kozinc addressed the Minister with the word of a colleague, although we have already heard it six times. The representatives of the SLS and the SDS acknowledged the duplicity of the Government because they did not wait for the Constitutional Court to decide on the judgment of the Smurf Act. In fact, they are also two-faced when the government is informed that they are not waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Dear colleague Kek, please, if only a presentation of your views. Others have also disputed, but please don't go too far in this controversy. It's a position statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u41	I'll follow your instructions immediately. At the 4th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 27.3. we adopted the amendment to the Law on Lawyers and thus addressed the shortcomings of the previous law, which fundamentally intervened in the independence of the legal profession. It evaluated the assumption as independent and independent services and activities. The basic objective of the law was to discipline the defence and to fully subordinate it to the legislative and executive authorities of the State. In his core core, he supported the defence as a free activity and subordinated it to the system of control. We followed Article 137 of the Constitution with the amendment of the law adopted on 27 March. We have restored its powers to the Bar and thus implemented a provision which defines the Office as part of the judiciary, namely, separate from the legislative and executive branch of the Authority, in which it has unduly infringed the law adopted under the previous authority. In the Group of Members, we really support some of the necessary amendments to the last amendment to the Law on Lawyers adopted this March, as these principles are only being followed. With the possible rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Advocacy at the Referendum, whose request was signed by 33 members of the National Assembly, there could be unconstitutional consequences. In view of the postponement of this law due to the proposed subsequent referendum, these are already being produced. If this law is rejected at the referendum, there will be a situation where the areas governed by the law cannot be aligned with the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for one year. There will be a situation in which criminal proceedings against defendants cannot be conducted, which, in accordance with the law on criminal proceedings, must be provided with a compulsory formal defence, and cannot be provided for by the proposed deletions from the list of mandatory defence lawyers. It should also be noted that the Republic of Slovenia does not have the capacity, properly trained lawyers, to establish an interventional system of state lawyers as a response to the withdrawal of lawyers from those lists of representation by official duty. Another important problem which could arise by rejecting that law at the referendum is the provision of representation on the basis of free legal aid. As a result, the State will not be able to ensure the implementation of the principle of equal access to justice despite the principle of the rule of law and the social state set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The adopted law solves the problem in such a way as to ensure that the President of the competent court finds that the list of lawyers providing free legal assistance is not sufficient for the implementation of that institution, the court shall appoint a lawyer in alphabetical order from all the lawyers entered in the catalogue of lawyers forming up a district council organised in the territory of each district court. Free legal aid is still an important institute in the Republic of Slovenia, as data from the draft judicial statistics show an increasing and growing need for free legal assistance from applicants. The law adopted in the previous term has waived the duties of representation under official duties and the implementation of the free legal assistance institute, since it did not provide solutions to prevent the consequences that we are facing today. This withdrawal of lawyers from the list for free legal aid - this is some kind of blackmail - in the Group of Members we really do not support. And it is precisely the last novel of the Law on Lawyers that recommits lawyers to the establishment of these two so important institutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Mr President, honourable Minister and Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me immediately and clearly say in the beginning that our DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposed decision to have the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether, as a result of the postponement of the application and possible rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyerry adopted at the 4th session, there would be unconstitutional consequences. The reason for today's extraordinary session is the submission of an invitation to tender for a subsequent legislative referendum on this law, which we do not favour, namely, the invitation to tender, Members of the DeSUS. With the description of the Odyssey, the chronology of acceptance and amendment, the decision on the veto of the State Council, and similarly I will not lose words, since our Group of Members has expressed its position more than once, so I do not see the point in this. However, there are, of course, important reasons why we accept and support the proposed decision. One of the main reasons is the effective provision of the right to free legal aid, which aims at exercising the right to judicial protection also for those with a weaker social situation - I repeat, with a view to exercising the right to judicial protection also for those with a weaker social situation. With the possible adoption of a decision at a possible referendum that the amendment to the Law on Lawyers should not be implemented, it would certainly appear from our assessment that the unconstitutional consequences arising even now would arise due to the postponement of the implementation of this amendment. Before the last amendment, lawyers are no longer required to enter the list from which the Presidents of the Courts elect lawyers who defend the defendants under official responsibility. This is "ex offo", not even on the list from which lawyers perform free legal aid. Such an arrangement, for example with a weaker social situation, causes the latter to violate the constitutional right to judicial protection. Not to mention this, the sent conclusions of the district councils of lawyers Koper, Maribor, Posavje, Nova Gorica and Celje, all of whom mention almost identical content, all of whom are on the list of "ex offo" and the list of free legal aid. The candidates for the referendum do not seem to be aware of the consequences caused by the amendment of the law in the previous term, nor of the importance of the application at the 4th regular meeting of the adopted Law on Lawyers, which correctly corrects this anomaly. I must also express my appreciation to the Minister, who has responded so quickly to such inconsistencies and thus to the violation of human rights and freedoms. As a second reason for supporting this decision by the DeSUS Group, the fact that the latest novelty, which has not yet entered into force, has made a significant contribution or will contribute to a more rational use of public funds, particularly in the area of the revision of public procurement procedures. The disproportionate intervention in the tax means is also noted by the State Audit Commission for the Review of Procedures and its notification of the recognition of lawyers' awards in these proceedings clearly, without any doubt, it follows that if the latest novelties were not established, the latter would represent a significant burden on public finances, as the average awards of lawyers are now enormous, while the latest novelties of this award limit them to a substantially lower amount. Our Group of Members will vote in favour of the decision to refer this matter to the Constitutional Judges. We are also convinced that the proposal to call for a legislative referendum is a completely irresponsible move that can or even cause irreparable harm to many individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Nice hello to you all! Slovenia is a strange country. She's being blackmailed by judges, blackmailed by doctors, blackmailed by teachers, and now being blackmailed by lawyers. And we look at this beautifully calmly and argue here that we will please a clan that actually works very unfairly in this area. In fact, a man would ask himself what this gentleman's lawyer actually thinks. Does he think only of his own earnings? Does he think of anything else? Here a whole bunch of lawyers came off the court list for reasons they just don't want to represent any of those who don't deserve it anymore. That's exactly what it is. The state pays for the defense, that's those ex-offo agents. That's a small profit, that's a little money. And do what? Are we forcing the National Assembly to lift us all to our previous level, or will we not do so? And here we have a decision to withdraw all the lawyers from Kopra from the list of courts, then we have a decision to withdraw all the lawyers Celje from the list of courts, then we have that none of the lawyers in Nova Gorica will apply to the list of free legal aid and ex-offo representations, then we have Maribor, a record of the meeting of the council of lawyers, and they will no longer represent anyone. What kind of country are we? And what does the Ministry do? Instead of correcting the matter in such a way as to make compulsory ex-offo representation and providing free legal aid, he does nothing. Solicitor's office is cutting bread as it pleases her. And after he's forced the minister and the coalition to propose here a conclusion that, if there is a referendum to break the constitution, I think it's terrible. I do not know if gentlemen are aware that the referendum is the highest and constitutionally guaranteed form of democracy and the participation of people, people in decision-making. No, we're gonna tear this down because someone doesn't like it because someone's not gonna make enough money. After all, if we also look at the signatures of these lawyers, it is interesting that there are mostly not some very stressful "hard" lawyers around. That lawyer who knows how to work is already gonna make a profit out of it, and others are gonna blackmail. And when we listen here to the fact that the referendum, if it succeeds or if it is even signed, is to blame for some not getting help, I mean, it's swindling. That's a lie, that's sand in your eyes, that's bullshit! This is where the gentlemen got out, and they're not gonna do it for free. I just don't know what they're gonna do then. Since there are too many lawyers in Slovenia and there are at least half of these lawyers who are extremely poor lawyers, they are obliged to receive payment regardless of the success of justice, in this case they will be without bread. So at least they had an "ex offo" representation, and the state paid them not to think, since it's already said that this representation is free, it's not free. It's free for someone who can't afford it, but the state pays a lawyer. I think we should do something else. In this area, lawyers should be able to achieve that the lawyer who unjustifiably rejected the "ex offo" representation or unjustifiably did not grant free legal aid should be required to withdraw the licence. Let us do what they hope in Germany, what they hope in Austria, and what they hope in other countries, but we are all afraid of everything. Only gypsies have all the rights. All the others, us who respect the laws, hit each other once, once, once and for all, once and for all. I mean, we really are a funny country. And it appears to some that it is in the interest of some that this funny country, which we have barely received, is collapsing and that it is gone. Then what are we gonna have? Sheriff's laws or something? Are we going to become, I don't know, some Jell-O exhibit, or maybe Lah's, or who, or hamsters, as now called Croats after the new one? Strange things, strange things. And when we get here a request with the signature of the famous Mr Saiovice, where he points out what those unconstitutional consequences would be, a man laughs. He's laughing! The first point states that the current regime and so on does not guarantee the implementation of effective free legal aid. Effective free legal aid is guaranteed by no one but a good lawyer! We don't have one of those in Slovenia. And also that this current regime does not guarantee the implementation of the obligatory formal defence, it is those "ex offo". But why not? If we look at him here, I don't know how many dozen lawyers have already "jumped out of this" so they won't work. Who's to blame now? A referendum initiative? No, it can't be because it's in conflict with logic. But logic has no special weight in us, and the coalition will decide and bring the matter to the Constitutional Court. It has a simple majority, and that is why all this debate that we have here is completely meaningless or meaningless, because it will be a success on the side from which people will get their heads on anyway. Some, of course, will profit. But those who know will be setting their own price anyway. I do not know how this can now be debated whether it should be a referendum or not, because it is necessary to know that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its 90th Article states that the National Assembly must call a referendum if at least a third of the Members so require. And this requirement is met. That's what you're saying. It's got to be a referendum. Legal options and overplays are just to fit a clan, just as they always do with a particular clan. Judges, doctors, teachers, lawyers, who's next? Butchers, perhaps? No, they have to work. Apothecaries? Maybe so. But I don't think they will. As I know them, they won't, because I hope you'll adopt some kind of law that will set matters straight. You've done nothing in this area so far. One would expect them to do something else, not just talk, say, delete coffees and similar things, or pay out of one’s coffee pocket. This decision you have proposed will delay the matter. The Constitutional Court will, of course, adopt such a decision as will be appropriate for the coalition. That too is clear, and we do not need to be misled. That's why I don't know what we're doing. Now, if it's a democracy? True, democracy prevails most over a minority. Okay. But, gentlemen, what about common sense? We were once Slovenians known for their common sense. Where's this one? She's gone. Although I'd say he's in here. Yeah, no, the farmers aren't in here, there's some farmers, and the farmers aren't in here. It would be so hard to talk about a healthy farm of intelligence in this venerable space. Yeah, buddy, did you feel hurt? The Slovenian proverb says, "If you step on your tail, you're gonna whine." Is that it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Mr Jelinčič, it is a presentation by the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Yeah, sure. The incompatibilities with which the coalition tries to prevent us from making decisions are endless. They really are endless. And when it is said that it is a threat to the performance of the functions of the social and legal state due to disproportionate interference with the State's public funding in the area of the revision of procurement procedures. Please! I'd like to see how many audits you've triggered. You've been in government for quite some time. How many public procurement audits have been launched? Not a single one. Have you imprisoned any of those gentlemen who cheated? Not a single one. Have you brought any gentlemen to court? Not a single one! And then you talk about it. Any Member should also be looked at from a security point of view for the Republic of Slovenia. Some are working very hard against Slovenia. I have already mentioned that I feel that there is a lot for some to see Slovenia disappear, and I am sure that others, at least some who think with their heads, feel that way. It is also said that it would be unconstitutional to interfere with the independence and independence of the legal profession. First, it is necessary to regulate the functioning of the lawyer. The lawyer charges his tariff regardless of the result. And you pay the lawyer in advance. And they say hookers and lawyers are paid in advance. That's right. Because you never know what the outcome will be. Unfortunately, there are many, many bad results in Slovenia. Thank you very much. Once again, we will vote against this decision, although it will not help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! It is normal for lawyers to fight for higher tariffs, it is normal for lawyers to fight for a better position, it is normal for lawyers to fight for complaints against their work by themselves and it would normally be for the Minister of Justice and the whole Government to protect public interest in these cases and to oppose these pressures and aspirations, which, as we have seen, they do not do. Instead, we witnessed the collegiate development of the amendment of the law, because, you know, I am talking about two colleagues, former Justice Minister Kozinac, the current President of the Bar and the current LDS Justice Minister, Mr Zalar, which is the collegiate development of the amendment of the law in which he strongly prevailed over the interests of lawyers at the expense of the public interest. Lawyers will set tariffs on their own and will decide on their own complaints against their work if such a law in the referendum is not rejected. The law that was passed last year, which we call Sturm's law, is fair in all respects. It is fair to customers, that is to say 100,000 who benefit from legal services, is fair to the State, i.e. the budget or taxpayers, because the State by law limits the legal tariffs up, especially in the area where it is concerned with the provision of free legal aid and the representation of officials. Despite the fact that these tariffs are limited and that lawyers consider them to be too low, this cost for taxpayers in 2008 was over €8 million, €821.428 million in the area of free legal aid, share this with 12,000 matters because it is a simple matter, because most of them were resolved in one year, only 1200 remained behind, and you will see that this tariff is not as low as at first sight and about €5 million for representation after the official duty. Nevertheless, I think that proportionality is ensured, so I still insist that the law in force is fair to all, i.e. lawyers, because it allows fair payment for their work, totally comparable to the German system. And what is essential is that this law, which was enacted last year, allows and contributes to the reduction of judicial backlogs because it tariffs lawyers by effect, not by the number of documents produced. So why was this urgent, swift change in the law at the last meeting, which brings us back to the situation before the Law of Sturm? It is quite clear that this problem is free legal aid, i.e. the protection of the weaker and those to be represented by the official duty, only the scenes, because not one particular case has been mentioned in the debates so far, nor in the adoption of the law, nor is it today that this danger is indeed demonstrated. The law changes solely for the purpose of bringing us back to the system I mentioned earlier, i.e. to a system of abnormally high tariffs. Earlier, we had heard that in some criminal procedure, 26 000 euros were paid out of the budget within two months, but this is not an isolated case, there are some tens, a few hundred. So to get us back into a state where lawyers set this tariff on their own -- unlimited. In a state of self-deciding complaints against their work. Now I don't know if this has helped that a few ministers come from a number of types of lawyers, such as the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Public Administration, where they are likely to return when the mandate is over, whether or not the collegiate attitude of the former LDS Minister of Justice and the current LDS Minister of State has helped. The fact is that in this case the public interest has been neglected and has prevailed over the private interest of some 1,200 Slovenian citizens and citizens who are registered in the Register of Lawyers in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not good, for ministers and the Government are the first, but we are immediately behind them, who are obliged to protect the public interest and who are obliged to ensure balance in all spheres of public authority. The manoeuvre that the ruling coalition is taking today instead of deciding on the referendum, as provided for in the Constitution, is unprecedented, although formally permissible, but not formally groundless. Manever is based on the fact that the referendum, and in the case of this law, this novel, called the Zalar novel, is rejected in order to prevent the legal protection of the weak. That is not true, and neither the Minister, nor the Government, nor any of the ruling coalition have proved this with any concrete case. That would be true if today we knew that there are no more lawyers on the list who offer free legal aid and who represent on official duty. We did not know how many of them came out of that list, nor how many of them were added to it at the time of the entry into force of the Smurf Law. We didn't even know that. We have received a number of positions of legal offices in areas that are irrelevant, for this list must be registered and written out by each lawyer himself. And on the side of the Ljubljana Chamber, where it is the largest number of lawyers, we have written in the material that you have presented, that some of them are registered and others are written out. Therefore, the potential risk of people, particularly weaker, being left without offering free legal aid is not demonstrated in anything. Even if it were, the Minister is the first one to protect these social weaknesses and we fully support it. Nor did we oppose this part of the law, nor do we oppose it. We have argued only in two essential points, and these are tariffs and in this part, that lawyers should decide again on their own complaints against their work, not that they decide on this at the second stage of the judiciary. We have opposed this and we strongly oppose it. And that is why we believe that all other legal options have been exhausted for people to make decisions. The applicable legislation, which provides for voluntary entry into this directory, is also based on the code prescribed by the lawyers themselves by the Code of Legal Professional Ethics, which states in Article 37: The inability of the party to pay the lawyer's work adequately is no reason to reject legal aid in emergency cases. Article 42: The representation and defence of the socially weak is a common and honorable task of lawyers in the exercise of their legal profession. This task should be performed by a lawyer with a special understanding. 1,200 cases are in resolution throughout the year, one on average per lawyer in the Republic of Slovenia, given that about 1,200 are registered in the register. Even if that one case were to be done by each individual, or if 10 were to be made by themselves in addition to their work, it would be in accordance with the code and would also be in accordance with the law. Despite the fact that the law now in force, the Smurf Act, also provides for such cases a fair payment comparable to the German system. There, too, these tariffs are laid down by law on the basis of a long-standing, more than one hundred and twenty-year tradition. In the event of a referendum and the law being rejected, there is still room for regulation of this area if there is a potential risk that lawyers would reject representation under official duty and free legal aid in other laws. Both in the Law on free legal aid, in the Penal Code, in the Law on non-contesting legal tariffs and so on. So that's why you're saying you don't hold back. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I said, we have strongly opposed, mainly for those two essential reasons, when this law is in force. And once again, we have not objected to this as far as it is perceived as a potential threat, to any other arrangement regarding the provision of free legal aid and representation under official responsibility, unless lawyers adhere to even, some lawyers, so as not to have a misunderstanding, do not adhere to the code of lawyer's professional ethics. I personally have to say that I don't believe this and that you haven't convinced me that either. These records don't prove it to the council of lawyers. However, you did not provide a list of how many were added and how many were written. There was another reason, for which I must say that what the State Audit Commission points out in the position you have attached is not true. It's not an accurate calculation. These are large-scale audits of the value of a public contract of more than €10 million, where the legal rate of €31,000 and more than €30 million, where it is indeed high, €91,000. For €5 million, the legal rate is €16,000. But in what cases do these costs come into effect? In cases where the contracting authority is acting contrary to the law. When a contracting entity doesn't do something that's legal. So, here's the responsibility of the contracting authority and one who doesn't respect the law in these cases when refunds are made. These cases are, in my opinion, the power to list on the fingers of both hands a year. Nevertheless, we did not object to this provision either, and this is not an essential argument as to the opposition to this referendum issue. The Constitution of the 1990s makes it very clear that a referendum on a law for which at least a third of the Members have applied must be opened by the National Assembly. In this case, 33 Members and Members. We should therefore decide today on the call for this referendum. Instead, we are deciding on a proposal for a constitutional assessment, which neither the Government nor the ruling coalition has justified, at any given point, the unconstitutional consequences that would result from the possible rejection of the law at the referendum. Moreover, neither does the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The only reason for the ruling coalition, which is for me, given that you have not made any arguments, including the abuse of law, is to prevent people from deciding on this issue on 7 June this year, together with the elections to the European Parliament. That is the only reason, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will carry out this judgment quickly if your arguments are not confirmed. However, the referendum will be carried out, but not on 7 June, it would be right for the ruling person to pay this expense in the amount of some more than three million euros from your pocket than is the case in all other civil legal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain some of the things that have been mentioned in the discussions so far, if I may. In the presentation of the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, it was said that little man is not important to the Government. On the contrary, and if you carefully read only the request to submit this matter to the Constitutional Court, as well as before the Government's explanation as a candidate for the Law on Lawyering, you will find that the main focus is on why this change is needed and why it is necessary under urgent procedure, precisely by protecting a small person. Just to enable those who cannot afford it for reasons of financial nature; and these are more and more, we see it every day, and we know why. Therefore, this country is obliged to provide the same legal protection as all other citizens who can afford it. Such a reason is also at the forefront of these discussions on the anti-constitutional consequences. There is no lobby over the government regarding the adoption of the Law on Lawyers, nor is there a lawyer. The only thing we have above ourselves and by which we, of course, follow our example, is the Constitution. And here we are talking about the unconstitutional consequences. In the introductory explanation, I have cited the specific articles of the Constitution that we have above us, which strengthen us in the belief that the consequences of such a nature in this case would be that it is right for the Constitutional Court to decide on this. Mr Cukjat, you have mentioned a series of arguments, with some it is not possible to agree, but with some it is possible to agree. It is possible, for example, to agree with the argument that the legal tariff, which is now in force as of 1 January this year, brings many good solutions. That its system is different from that of the previous one, that it actually encourages lawyers to ensure the concentration of judicial proceedings and not their extension. But we're not talking about the Law on Lawyers, that's the second law. This law is neither the subject of today's debate nor the subject of a legislative procedure. And even after this amendment to the Law on Lawyers, which is the subject of dismemberment, this law continues to apply. I don't know where this fear that this system, which is being established by the Law on Lawyers, should be completely changed and returned to the previous regime. What makes you say that? I don't see any valid reasons at this time as Minister for anything like that. Nowhere and I've never said anything like that. Several very different and somewhat generalised interpretations emerged on the issue of legal tariffs and prices for their services. I can assure you. The legal tariffs have been both increased and reduced under the Law on legal tariffs, which is now in force, in very different situations, in very different cases. They were most reduced in the case of free legal aid and in the case of representation in criminal matters under official responsibility. So in those cases where the state pays for legal services. This is where they fell down, sensitive, but not in the rest of the work. Therefore, it is misleading to say that people will pay significantly less due to these new tariffs. Only in cases where there is very small value to the dispute will they pay a little less, perhaps a hundred euros, not yet. Otherwise, these services will be either about as expensive or significantly more expensive. Let me draw your attention to the situation in which lawyers' earnings are actually generated, not in small cases, they are generated in economic disputes, and there this tariff, which was adopted during the previous minister's time, is now allowing lawyers up to five times the amount of profits. We therefore exhaust economic operators with this tariff. And why shouldn't the Minister of Justice have the power to verify the appropriateness of such a tariff and lower it if he thinks it is important, because obviously Parliament does not intend to do so. I would like to touch on some other questions. It has been mentioned that the current rules of the Code of Legal Ethics provide that lawyers are also obliged to provide legal aid free of charge in cases of urgency and that they should therefore draw the conclusion that lawyers must do so in all cases. You know, lawyers are precise, sometimes, people say, even too hairy, but in Slovenia we have a law on free legal aid and this law very precisely defines what it is necessary for free legal aid. And the law binds the right of the beneficiary to grant emergency free legal aid in cases where he threatens that, due to the expiry of the period, the individual will miss his right to exercise judicial protection. In such cases alone, free legal aid is necessary and in such cases it is not necessary for the beneficiary to provide any evidence which, by law, is required to assess whether or not it fulfils the appropriate conditions for such allocation. Therefore, it cannot be said at all times that this ethical rule imposes at the same time a legal duty on lawyers to provide, on average, free legal aid. If that were the case, then the Government would certainly not have changed the Law on Lawyers, at least not in this part, and certainly not in the emergency procedure. It was pointed out that lawyers, by unethical withdrawal from the lists of lawyers on official duty or those who provide free legal assistance, do not deserve anything other than that the Lawyers’ Chamber should be given public authority, given that this is obviously an organised operation under the auspices of this Chamber. It's hard to take something someone doesn't have. The Bar does not have public authority. What do we take from her now? We do not have a public service based on our constitution in general, and the position of a lawyer is very different from that of a notariat, which is a public service. Then there are also constitutional differences in these terms of autonomy and independence that have been mentioned. And, of course, it is totally inappropriate to compare the autonomy and independence of a lawyer as an activity carried out as a free profession, as is the profession of a water operator or a doctor or a judge who is a state official and exercises state authority; counseling is not. And this comparison doesn't make any sense because it's completely inappropriate. But there is something else that, according to our Constitution, this position is extremely heavily secured. In most other countries, lawyering is not a constitutional category such as Slovenia. But this, of course, also forces the legislator to be very careful when it interferes with matters relating to the situation of this lawyer. If, in so doing, I neglect the duty to take into account the Treaty establishing the European Communities since we are a member of the European Union, for example, which is also mentioned in the request that the European Commission sue Italy for a re-regulation of the tariffs. Because the Commission considers this to be contrary to two articles of the Treaty establishing the European Community. The European Commission's point of view is that the defence is carried out as a free profession. The question of the credibility of the Constitutional Court was mentioned. The Constitutional Court will judge constitutional arguments and even any decision it takes will not justify it for political reasons, what is being done in Parliament and what is also normal and what is logical is happening in Parliament. Therefore, the requirement must, of course, deal with the constitutional aspects and, in the view of the Government, these aspects and the reasons given are preventable. Someone mentioned that the Ministry of Justice should do nothing at the time of this systematic withdrawal of lawyers from the list of lawyers on official duty. That's not true. Exactly because the Justice Department has done something, we are here today. I think it's Article 5 of the law that regulates this issue. The Ministry and the Government and Parliament have established a legal obligation that this can no longer happen to us in the future and that now the lawyer would really lose his license, as Mr Jelinčič said. But in order for a lawyer to lose his license, of course, there has to be a legal basis, and in this law, which is still in force, it is not. And that was also the reason why we went into this change, and that is also the reason why there can be unlawful consequences if this change is not enforced. Mr Cernač, Member of Parliament, mentioned the collegiate formation of the law. I understand that the practice could have been different, but as long as I am a minister, the practice of writing laws will be such that at the initial stage of the creation of the draft law we will be able to include in writing everyone we believe can help us do so. And it's logical, by the nature of the matter, that if someone goes into writing a law in a circular area, he'll include those involved. If we're going to write a law on doctors, we're going to ask doctors about it and, if possible, involve them in it. If we're going to write a law on judges, we're going to include the judges. And it's the same with lawyers. And the Ministry of Justice appointed a mixed working group. In this group there were both experts in the field of defence as well as experts from the Ministry of Justice. And speaking of this collegiality, the leader of this group was someone who is a member of your political party, Mr. Cernač. So much for collegiality. It is not a matter of returning to the previous situation when we talk about the fact that, according to the new legal tariff, they should be determined in a way that the Minister of Justice gives prior consent far from that. This is a significant difference from the arrangement before Sturm's novel, if I may say so, or Sturm's Law. In fact, the Institute of Pre-Conciliation has a double function. First, it requires both actors, the Bar and the Minister to seek mutual solutions for all issues that may be raised, which means a coordination process. In this part, the consensus institute is focused on the process itself. And there's a difference from the old arrangement where the minister only had the word at the end, whether he gave his consent or not. In the previous regulation, the effect of ministers was significantly worse, but, nevertheless, it succeeded, for example, Minister Biszak, former Justice Minister, in reaching an agreement with the Bar Association to lower the legal rate, and, if I am not mistaken, in matters of free legal aid and representation under official duty. It is so much more likely that, of course, this procedure, as envisaged, would now allow the Justice Minister to achieve this. But not only in these cases, but in all other shouting cases, where it was obviously an unfortunate summation of the tariff from the German model. Second, when this procedure is completed, then the Institute of the Final Minister's Consent comes to the tariff so that a new tariff can then be actually applied. It is also the Minister who advocates and ensures public interest and it is clear that he will also bear full public and political responsibility and that legal responsibility will also be required if he is unable to ensure the enforcement and delivery of this public interest in an effective manner. I am aware of this and therefore reject all the instigations I have heard recently about collegiality and relationships that are supposed to smell like clientelism. When the Ministry received notification from the District Bar Associations that they were withdrawing from the list of defence counsel on official duty and that the Ministry had received a notice that lawyers were refusing to cooperate in matters of free legal assistance, an immediate meeting with the Management Board of the Bar had taken place at my express request. You have a record of this meeting and you can see from this minutes what has been mentioned many times today that in Ljubljana some are included in these lists, and some are withdrawing from these lists, because the Ljubljana Regional Bar Association was one of the few which, until the moment I reached this meeting with the Administrative Board of the Bar, has not yet decided whether lawyers withdraw collectively or not. At the same meeting, however, it was agreed with all district lawyers to freeze these decisions and do not enforce them until the amendment of the Law on Lawyers. That's why you can read this information. Therefore, Ljubljana did not have to decide on this because it was decided that we would find a common solution. Finally, when it was mentioned that some of the solutions in this law are not opposed by the opposition, it is opposed to some others. Unfortunately, the situation is such that when you oppose some, you oppose the whole law and the referendum can only be judged by the whole law. And the Constitutional Court can only be judged by the whole. In doing so, what has been mentioned will be of particular importance, however, of the anti-constitutional consequences. And when it has been said that there should be no specific unconstitutional consequences for the high public procurement awards, please read the last part of the warning sent by the State Audit Commission in these procedures, that as many as 42% of the cases before this committee are successful and that these provisions on the payment of high legal awards are also taken into account in these cases. And that for one year, that means a total of 244 cases in a total of 104 cases. And if you now take this information that the average value of the audit requests is EUR 5 million, you can easily calculate how much money will have to be paid out of this title and why, in the opinion of the Government, this is an unconstitutional consequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? But before I mention it, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry I can't replicate you from this town, and time doesn't allow us. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Today, it will be obvious that this violation of the Rules of Procedure allowed by the President of the National Assembly past the College has been a matter of his own free will in this particular case that we are talking about today, the Government of Time, two hours in order to deal with individual debaters. Not only was it contrary to formal provisions, but I think it was also not the right decision. No matter what has been said in this implementation now, despite the fact that we have repeatedly called on the Minister to state a single concrete case that shows the likelihood that lawyers are being removed from the lists and re-registered, this has not been the case. We listen to the conclusions of district councils of lawyers and so on, despite the fact that we know that the law states very clearly and decisively that each individual lawyer decides on the issue and registration. And despite the fact that we know that the Code of Counsel speaks of lawyers being obliged to provide free legal aid, there is no responsibility of a minister. This has been shown by the time two colleagues, the former LDS Justice Minister and the current Justice Minister, agree on what the law will look like. Is that a responsibility? That's not the responsibility. And when the proponents wanted to talk about these things, it was on the part of the President of the National Assembly, when time was set by the Government at a point on which there was no substantive powers. We would also like to speak as proponents about these audit procedures when they are manipulated by the public. Despite the many cases listed, we do not have specific information, but in how many cases this reimbursement of costs has been established in these disputes, where the audit procedure was 30 million and more, because it is only these cases. Look, and here I have to say that the Rules of Procedure are broken on a number of levels when the proponents [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the coalition, please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u55	We cannot talk about what is being said and what has been proposed on our part. [[...]] On the other hand, it has already been demonstrated in the debate that no responsibility lies with the Minister, and unfortunately it does not feel any responsibility, which is the most problematic, especially for those he should protect most, according to those who are socially weak, who should be able to offer legal aid by means of appropriate legal solutions if he considers that individual lawyers will not be represented by official duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Thank you. I must say that Minister Bellonka Černača personally stated, quoted and I understood that it was a replica to which he was entitled. Now you have procedural initiatives. I'll go in line, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I would like to remind you that the debate, I will say, Mr Chernač's debate was not a replica, given that he was appointed, but, if I have heard correctly and I hope that you are too, he said he would make a procedural proposal. I did not hear such a procedural proposal in his debate when he took three minutes to deal with the Minister, so I ask that you also ensure that the meeting is properly conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you do not allow your fellow Members something which is not in accordance with the rules of this House. And I think that it is unfair for a colleague of Montenegro to use the fact that you are now in charge of this meeting, and it is coming back after more than half an hour at the beginning of the meeting, listening to your procedural proposals and also getting the explanations and answers of the President of the National Assembly. If this is to be repeated now, I must say that this is an extremely inappropriate and complete exploitation of the fact that a Member who belongs to the same parliamentary group as you, Mr Vice-President, is discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Thank you. Then it's Mr. Franco Yuri. Here you go. You have a procedural proposal. I didn't hear it before. Will you have it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u59	I also protest such abuse on your part. Apparently, there has been an agreement in your parliamentary group, and I therefore propose procedurally, to my fellow national party, that we be correct, I suggest that such a game no longer be repeated in the National Assembly. Let me protest. I have heard well, it was a procedural proposal and also in the magnetogram you have clearly written the words of a colleague of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u60	What am I gonna put to the vote? No, no, no. Nothing. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Mr Vice-President, I have a concrete procedural proposal for you and Mr Chernač to give a reminder of the lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u62	Well, it's getting funny. Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u63	Mr Vice-President, my procedural proposal goes also in the sense of your comment. You said that you understood Mr Chernač's reporting as a replica, but I think that you can take away three minutes of the parliamentary group's time for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u64	I can't put that to the vote either. Mr. Luka Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Chairman. I join the proposal to remind the debaters, co-workers and colleagues who are in breach of the Rules of Procedure of this matter. However, I would like to suggest that, given that obviously, I understand, the day is long, you have little difficulty tracking the debate, that you may afford time for one coffee and invite another vice-president to lead the meeting. That's what I suggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Thank you for your kindness. But I'm going to give up coffee to follow the Prime Minister's example. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Zvonko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u67	I thank my colleagues and colleagues. True, the chairman misheard me, I had a procedural proposal. Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure: "A Member who wishes to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure shall take the Chair's word as soon as requested. The speech of this Member shall not last more than 3 minutes." I kept this provision in all respects, I also said what I was talking about, I was talking about that the Rules of Procedure had been violated, because the Government, so Minister Zalar, could speak for two hours, regardless of whether it was a matter that could be discussed in this case, and that we could not have a normal discussion of the issues that we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u68	Thank you. I can't put that to the vote either. Anyone else have a procedural proposal? Mr Grimes, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u69	I propose that the situation caused by the will of the President of the National Assembly, who has given the Government no less than 120 minutes for final words and debate, and the proposer 5 minutes, that is to say, if we include Mr Saiovic's Government, the ratio is exactly 1:25, the government has ordered 25 times more time or the ruling coalition itself to make sure that at the next meeting of the College, as some in a purely different context have said, that this will never happen again. For now it is tragic to protest those who support this kind of behavior vehemently. They called, I think, three or even four Members from that particular parliamentary group from which the President of the National Assembly, who once promised to do everything he could to make this space a free public word, then he shouted from that counter "prohibiting a debate", which is incomprehensible from a democratic point of view, and today he even took this right to have 25 times more time, voluntarily, past the College ordered the ruling coalition as well as to the proposer for intermediate disclosure and closing words. This is a witness to the deep undemocraticity of the current coalition, but it is even worse, that it is undemocratic, we all know, that the process and general democratic foundations themselves are being broken and democratic standards already achieved, which are the foundation of this country, because Parliament is a fundamental democratic body, if there is no freedom of the public word, if the rulings take 25 times more time than they allow the proposer of a particular matter, then with democracy in that country something is very wrong and should all be very concerned. And I ask that you inform all the Members of the College that you have agreed not to do so again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Well, I think we can proceed with the debate. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that in the Group of Members, we have already said several times in these days that we are very critical and also bitter about the conduct that we can also call blackmail and exploitation of the situation in which the State has been confronted by lawyers. That's what I want to say first. However, a comma was placed here. This is a situation, an unenviable situation, a situation in which the country is in, and you do not want to see and do not want to get to know this referendum's proponents. The Storm Act, such as it is, has somehow put the state in a situation where it cannot guarantee what is necessary to normally conduct predictive procedures in order to normally carry out trials in the courts. The whole range of proceedings is compromised, because the state cannot and does not have leverages, does not have the authority to force any lawyer to represent the parties on official duty to represent minors or to participate in procedures in which free legal assistance is required. And in this sense, it seems to me that it will be necessary to consider, however, how citizens are more at risk and in what sense also dangerous consequences could arise in such a situation. In doing so, I would like to say that today there have been some people quoted as saying that they are more important to me than to quote eminent legal professionals in the columns that analyse the political situation at a certain point. The question is, if a journalist today would think the same way, when this thing has already been said much in these days, as it was when the column was created. But today we can read two very important statements, I think that the leading constitutional experts of Dr. Igor Kavčič, who says and thinks that: "The Constitutional Court will not have an easy task in assessing the referendum requirement, because it will have to assess on the one hand the possibility of a counter-constitutional effect, and on the other, an intervention in the referendum rights of the people." That's true, and this is a big dilemma. I'm sure we can talk about double time in here today, and we can't solve this dilemma for 14 hours, so we have the highest legal and judicial authority, and this is the Constitutional Court. Mr Kavčič goes on to say: "A few elements suggest that the referendum could have anti-constitutional consequences." And another statement by Prof. Mir Cerar, who estimates that it is useful in any case to judge the referendum by the Constitutional Court. So today we are talking about having two legitimate and two legitimate demands before us. On the one hand, the request of SDS and SLS sent groups to call for a referendum and, on the other hand, the same legitimate and equal legal requirement for this referendum to be assessed in the light of the unconstitutional consequences. Both requirements are exactly the same status as regards legality. In this sense, however, I find it correct to say something. I asked you this at the board meeting today, but I didn't get an answer. I'm asking you again. The referendum initiatives were not given by citizens and citizens. The referendum initiative gave an appropriate number of SDS and SLS Members. And I am still firmly convinced that this referendum requirement is in some way not so important and it means playing the referendum institute in the sense that all citizens should face such an important constitutional dilemma as even constitutional judges say it is extremely complex. And I asked you if you told people about the consequences that might happen if the referendum succeeds, if another year goes by so-called Sturm's Law, because a year after the referendum laws should not change. In this case, we now know and are faced with threats and documents that lawyers will not provide the legal free legal aid and the legal aid that the state needs if I say that this could result in a huge dilemma, questions, judicial backlogs, proceedings that will be stopped, perhaps even for the worst crimes. A crime situation can happen to us, as we have already faced, for example in the case of Plut, when the criminal expects the state to provide him with legal protection and protection. And nothing, everything will stop, the process will not continue. Have you asked yourself, those who propose a referendum, even the consequences of a one-year state? For where Sturm's marriage is the weakest and where you do not recognize that there is a problem here, it is that the state of Slovenia has no leverage to in any way establish any mechanism to establish the necessity for lawyers to provide such legal aid. Unlike some other countries where they have it and have done so, this mechanism has also been exploited, you want the country to be ruled by anarchy, chaos. Maybe that's the goal, as our president said, the worse the better for us. That's how a man explains your request that, as you claim, lawyers' tariffs be decided at the referendum by the people. It is not a matter of legal tariffs at all, far from being the main basis of this requirement. For the lawyers never, not according to Sturm, nor according to Zalar, nor according to the previous law, ever had the authority to decide their own tariffs. It is that you "insinuate" that if tariffs are decided by the executive branch, then the Minister, in this case, the automatic legal tariffs will be high. This is your "insinuation" and because of this "insinuation" it is expected to go to a million and some Slovenian citizens and voters to confirm this your thesis that, in so far as the executive branch of the principle will decide on the legal tariffs, with the Minister of Justice, as it is fair to say, in most countries and today you have improved and yet said that the tariffs in the way you think are decided only in Germany and Austria and nowhere else. You've improved today. You said days ago that this is happening all over the world or in all democratic countries. This was said at the time of the adoption of the law, I think it can be verified and that is the only question. You want us to decide on the tariffs in Parliament. There is also a policy in Parliament, and there are lobbying in Parliament, and there can also be a decision that will, I will say, be lobbyist by lawyers, because there is also no one immune to such matters. And in that sense, I think it requires a perfect farce. Therefore, I think it is right that, with the unconstitutional consequences of the referendum, the Constitutional Court goes to the Constitutional Court to wait for what the Constitutional Court will decide in this extremely complex situation. But today we will talk about this in a long and broad way, but without any benefit, because this debate today has no meaning, except perhaps "piaronic" in terms of who is more right and who is less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Legal protection is often the only battle of salvation for those who are before the law and also against the stronger, financially stronger opponents, and equality against the law is also a constitutional category, but what we have adopted recently at the National Assembly cannot be said that we have also actually advocated this when we adopted this law. Many are watching us today, and it is likely that everyone can create his own picture. Exiting lawyers from the list of free lawyers just because the state pays them badly is an unacceptable act, a respected minister, and that is blackmail. And if there's anything in your pants, if you're a minister, then you're gonna stop it with a decree, that's what you should do. I believe it's hard to do this because it can put a lot of people at risk when they finish this job, and it also threatens the existence to move forward, because there are some of you who come out of the law logs and you're somehow connected to this profession. Thus, the Constitutional Court will adopt a decision that is likely to be proposed by a coalition and will in some way be harmed by many who do not have the money today to defend themselves before a court. But if we look at what this absurdity is in advance, while all wages are limited, lawyers are allowed to make these salaries themselves. And who else is allowed to make these wages themselves? The directors of state-owned enterprises, the directors of which the Government, not only this one, but also the former ones, set them right as soon as it began to rule. And the circle is complete. And why such a marriage? If we believe the words of the Minister of the Interior, which were said at the time of the interpretation, it will be worth a few billion euros to be erased. And it's probably the basis for lawyers to be able to write the price of their services themselves. And here's not the end of this lame work that normal people who don't have a pound of bread don't look at with admiration and loathe. Lawyers will also be able to judge their own work. So they're going to judge how much money they're going to get in their own pocket, and whether they're worth this money is also ethical, whether they're enough or not. That's what you give them as a journey to work on. And I think, of course, as well as in the Slovenian National Party, we feel that this is simply unacceptable and that this will not guarantee your credibility. What does this mean in these times when there will be even more fair proceedings, when some in court will also have to seek constitutional justice, that is the right to work, I leave it to you to think. And how those who will be left to themselves can find this right in court, nor will it be difficult to understand and conclude if we know that lawyers will soon be available only for some. This is the injustice caused by this government, and from a social point of view this is not at least social or at least similar to that of the Government, which claims to be human, social, to ensure the principle of equality and so on. We're moving away from this, we're moving very far away from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The legislation we are discussing today is the product of a project called the Twinning Project, led by then recognised German judge Doukoff. This means that we followed the German model or German concept in Slovenia at the time. In this case, then, it was some kind of advice in the pre-accession negotiations, where much has been found. Among other things, the book of Doukoff, mentioned today, says on page 93. [[Quote]] : "From discussions with judges, as well as on the basis of our own observations; all day long we have monitored several hearings at the external department of the Ljubljana Labour Court in Novi mesto and Ljubljana and analysed the work of the judges at the writing table, there are the biggest obstacles to the quick and effective resolution of cases in unclear procedural rules, especially in the rules on legal compensation. This is also confirmed by the opinion of Slovenian judges. From our point of view, it makes no sense, so clearly it has to be said that the rules on compensations encourage lawyers to delay proceedings. Lawyers no longer receive money only for every written application, even if the statements in it are constantly directed, but also for participation at each individual hearing and so on, and so on and so on." That's what it says on page 93 of this book. I can say that the legal tariffs on Smurf's marriage have clearly been reduced. And it seems an irresponsible act to me to interfere with these legal tariffs during this time of crisis. There is absolutely no valid reason for this, except that the government has succumbed to a strong barrister's lobby. Given that you are so vehemently advocating the position that legal tariffs will not increase, given that they will be determined by the Bar or by the Minister, I wonder why this matter is actually changing. Will legal tariffs be reduced? If they fall, please tell us how much and when. Why is it really necessary to put this on your nose right now? There's no reason. Lawyers have a great life with us, they're fine, and I don't really envy them. But in all these debates, in the face of the crisis and solidarity that has been mentioned many times in this house, to those who are losing their jobs daily, it seems to me that this is all a bit of a hair draw. The only thing is, lawyers aren't enough. We'd need more, more competition. As you know, the ratio between judges and lawyers in Slovenia is about 1:1. In Germany, this ratio is 1:10. As for free legal aid, however, it is, in my opinion, unacceptable blackmail of lawyers, which is contrary to their code of professional ethics. The 37th Article of this Code has been mentioned several times and should in fact be amended and written: "The inability of the client to pay the lawyer's due work is a reason to reject legal aid in urgent cases." Doesn't this code apply? Obviously not. In order to be blackmailed, it is also clear from the minutes of the meeting of the Chamber of Lawyers in Maribor, where it says, I hope that you have read this: "The President gave a summary of the progress and conclusions of the meeting of the Management Board of the OSCE with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Zalar of 13. 1. 2009 At this meeting, the representatives of the OSCE presented in particular the following requirements: 1. the autonomy of the OSCE in setting the legal tariff... "and then there are three additional points. It goes on to say, "in the event that the U.S.O.S.'s demands were not complied with, the representatives of the U.S.S. have threatened to withdraw all lawyers from the list of "ex offo" and BPP. [[...]] Mr Minister has agreed with the demands of the representatives of the UNWE." So it's blackmail, and whatever it is, we're turning it around. At the same time, lawyers, among other things, find out for themselves, say in Ljubljana, and today this quote has also been mentioned several times that some have applied in mass and some have also checked out. So once again, cruel blackmail, and once again, cruel blackmail. But that's how much we have to be honest, probably not all the lawyers. So that we don't put too much manure on our lawyers today, they probably aren't all the same. But I think it's terrible if you don't do as we say, we won't do a few things. Where's the responsibility here? Social responsibility, if you like. Where's the ethics? Where'd she go? In my opinion, such blackmail must not be permitted by such a state. And this must be prevented by a referendum. With a referendum to be held in the European Parliament free of charge when the elections are held. So this referendum will cost no taxpayers. The state and citizens cannot be prisoners of anyone, nor can they be lawyers. And there is something else about the Constitutional Court, which is being abused in this house in one way or another, depending on how it suits someone. You're talking about the unconstitutionality of the referendum and so on. I ask you why you did not wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the law on lawyers and the law on tariffs. Give me one reason. Why are such hiccups, such speeds, that before the Constitutional Court’s decision, we had to change the law? Is there anything in the background? Does anyone know more than the rest of us? And I'll add something else. Two constitutional experts were mentioned here today. One of them is a permanent external contractual adviser to one of them, in fact, according to my assessment of the most important law firms in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! First, I would like to repeat very clearly what has already been said several times today. Today we are talking about the content of a law that does not affect the content that talks about tariffs. I have also asked this question to the Minister myself, and when I have made my own way through this, it is clear that his responsibility to be aware that, if this meant changes to these tariffs, as is the case here today, I myself would have had a very negative view of the content of this law. And it is clear here today that the Minister does not even fall to the point of reason to engage in a modified work which is good at the legislative changes brought about by the adoption of legislation from the former government, that is, from the former government. This needs to be made clear today for a simple reason, because today there is always talk about what is behind, which lobby is connected, who is a colleague and how. For a simple reason: I am sure that even if I were still in the power of the Yangtze government today, I would be faced with the same problem. So with the same problem where there would be proceedings, the conduct of lawyers, where they would question the functioning of judicial protection, that is, the rule of law, the consequences that would be contrary to the Constitution. And the minister of the new government was faced with this problem. Facing a problem caused by poor legislation from the previous year, which enters into force this year. And the lawyers reacted the way they reacted. I join myself to all those who say that lawyers did not do the right thing. In particular, they did not do the right thing in the relationship when they themselves initiated the judicial review procedure at the Constitutional Court. They themselves initiated this procedure and did not have their own morals at such a stage as to wait for a decision that would give them or the law. This would also then mean that the Minister and this government today would not be in a situation where they had to come under urgent procedure by amending the law ensuring respect for the Constitution of certain judicial protection. And if today we are faced with problems of withdrawing from the list of representations under official responsibility and rejecting free legal aid, it was normal to react by the Government and this minister in order to protect the judicial protection of all. The message that judicial protection in this country will have the poorest to the most important February has already been clear in my discussion of the deleted. It can't be court-martialed whether you can pay a lawyer or not. The State of Slovenia has also decided to exercise this constitutional right consistently. And I find it very easy to manipulate if today it is said that the content of this law and the content of the referendum are solely related to tariffs. It has been said clearly and loudly here that we do not interfere with tariffs and do not interfere with those things that can be good, as proposed by the Smurf Act. This needs to be made clear here by the Slovenes and the Slovenes. However, the issue is that the weakest layers in judicial proceedings will have the opportunity to receive legal aid free of charge. I don't think it's a good statement at that point when we compared lawyers today with different structures, with different professions. I think that this relationship is not the right one, and it has already been said here that it is not an infringement of the public powers conferred on the Bar, but rather of the relationship to Article 137, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, which says that the judiciary as part of the judiciary is an independent and independent service governed by the law. In this context, it is also necessary to follow the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision that the legislative branch of the authorities, or the Ministry, as the executive branch of the authorities, should be a negotiating partner in the implementation of this constitutional provision. So as a partnership in agreement, without giving lawyers absolute rights in this tariff setting. Of course, the minister has a lot of responsibility here. And, of course, here there is no way to agree to the opinions of some discussers that the minister bears no responsibility. Here the Minister has a clear responsibility and I am convinced that he is also aware of all the responsibilities if he intervenes very quickly in these provisions in a way that would make his statements incorrect today. Here I would also like to comment on the following fact. We have two demands. Even by the opposition Members, it has been said today that this is perfectly legitimate, where we weigh the right of two constitutional categories. It must be made clear that no one in the coalition opposes the right to a referendum. Nobody! At least as far as I understand. At the same time, account must also be taken of this right in this context, as set out in Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which states that the National Assembly may request an assessment of the constitutionality of the proposed referendum if there could be unconstitutional consequences. So we have adopted this provision in this law also with a significantly larger majority than is necessary for the normal adoption of laws. The broader consensus was to do so, because it is not necessary for each legislative referendum to be established. His unconstitutionalness may also be questioned. And here is the coalition's initiative today to assess this by the Constitutional Court. Nor do I accept the criticism that this in itself means that the referendum will not be held and that it will not be possible to carry out it together with the European elections. The Constitutional Court will decide within the time limit prescribed, that is, thirty days. And if it turns out that the Constitutional Court judges against this constitutional initiative, the deadlines can also be realized. In doing so, I would like to make it clear that I would not like our discussions to go back to diminishing the reputation of the Constitutional Court. I would not like us to continue to suspect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We are already discussing here today how this Constitutional Court has ruled in one way or another. In this case and here in this Chamber, President Türk performed, saying: "It is not necessary that we all agree with the decisions of the courts, but that the rule of law is measured by whether we are able to respect the decision of the courts as well. And if we are not able to respect the decision of constitutional courts, then the rule of law is too. And if we are not able to ensure the conditions of the rule of law of judicial protection as enshrined in the Constitution, then we are not able to implement the constitutional provisions of the rule of law." Therefore, I think it is very important that today we pour pure wine to Slovenes and Slovenians, because here the issue that is being put as a priority today, and these are the legal tariffs, is not a priority of the Minister's conduct in the content of the law that a referendum decision is to be taken. It is a matter of protecting the weakest for judicial protection and it is a possibility for the rule of law to operate in those criminal proceedings where it is necessary to ensure the presence of lawyers under an official obligation. And it seems to me that this professional debate, which is certainly difficult for us Members, is incorrect if we bring it only to the field of politics and to the field of populism. I believe that this is our responsibility, and I also believe in the correctness of his judgment in support of the assessment of this matter to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the Minister and all the other professional colleagues! Today we are considering a request for a call for a follow-up legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery, adopted by the National Assembly of Slovenia at the last 4th meeting of the National Assembly. I will focus only on the part of the law relating to the system of legal tariffs. They shall, in explanation of the text of the proposed group of Members, identify [[Quote]] : "The adoption of the entire system of legal tariffs shall return to the old railways, it shall appear to them from the point of view of the user of legal services, and shall not constitute the legal security of the parties." It was precisely these legal tariffs that were and will be the greatest stumbling block. Lawyer tariffs are the area in which the greatest manipulation takes place, creating a chain of endless lies and misdirections, grave manipulations. Therefore, I should just like to explain that the law understands that the only change in tariffs in the law is the part that stipulates that it is being reduced in the procedures for the revision of public contracts. The reason for this change is to seek the attention of the State Audit Commission, which points out with great responsibility that this area had to be regulated, since otherwise the function of the social and legal state would be compromised. In the procedures for the revision of public contracts, these tariffs will be reduced under the new law, and this is the only area where this law affects tariffs. This is said to be irrelevant, given that we have a special law governing it. I welcome the reduction, because in the time we live, this tariff adjustment represents some sort of austerity measure. I must admit that, personally, I am being held in favour of initiatives that have a subsequent legislative referendum. There are many reasons for this, especially if we look back on history. I am strongly aware that Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states how and in what way and what rights individuals and individuals have with regard to the legislative initiative in the referendum. However, I think it is good to know how and how the referendums have functioned and worked so far. If I am not mistaken, at the end of 2006, the National Assembly adopted a law abolishing the previous legislative referendum as a born version of expensive public opinion research. Today's subsequent legislative referendum is supposed to be a "vox popouli" transfer of responsibility for people's decisions, the search for alibis. And what have we achieved with the referendums so far? For example, ten years ago, the National Assembly transferred the decision on the construction of TET 3. In 2001, a lot of dust and a lot of bad will, as well as other things, led among young couples to a subsequent legislative referendum on the law on the treatment of infertility and insemination procedures with biomedical assistance. Six years ago, citizens went to the polls to express their referendum will quite often, not to say again. They decided to own railways, to invest in telecommunications. The most problematic among all of those is the billiards who asked the question about opening times of trade and Sunday's work. I will support this path when the opinion on this law and the issue is addressed to the Constitutional Court, to which a similar initiative for constitutional review has already been addressed, last year by the professional association, read the Chamber of Counsel. If I am not mistaken, the reason for this was poor communication between the Bar Association, the past government and Minister Sturm. And this has led to inappropriate regulation of this area, the result of which we also feel today and was therefore adopted, including the novel. I wonder if we will continue with negative practices and poor patterns and patterns. Our past is also for us to learn something good and instructive. However, I think that colleagues and colleagues, it is not good to mix pears and apples and not mix different professional associations. I was particularly disturbed by the comparison of medical services, doctors and lawyers. I don't think it's exactly the place and not the way we did or some of you compared those two jobs. Let me once again say that I will support the proposal of my colleague Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Say good-bye to everyone again! First of all, I must say that I very much understand this great panic expressed by the ruling coalition, together with the Government, when it comes to dealing with the first real possibility that their policy, when they are constantly working in the interest of some very narrow groups to the detriment of all citizens and citizens, should be faced or tested for the first time in a referendum before the whole people. I have to say that I understand their panic very much. But they are not doing well today. Look, first of all, as far as the references are concerned. Earlier, a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party had warned that it was not very wise to refer to those who were paid as external associates by law firms, because this is not a credible reference. What's more interesting is that you're all overlooking two things. First, who was actually the author of the existing law. That was Mr. Sturm. Mr Šturm is a long-standing professor, a university professor of constitutional law at the University of Ljubljana, as well as in some other colleges, his whole life working in the legal profession, he has a doctorate in science, and you can believe me, because you all know that if there was anything, but he is honest, he would do anything if he only saw that any part of his law could be legally disputed that he would never have proposed that law. But what we are talking about today and what is now in force is the law that he specifically proposed. Do you really believe that Professor Sturm would risk his integrity as a constitutional scientist if he could only sense that anything in his law would be constitutionally disputed? But even more interesting, because we know the principle that no one is a judge in their own case, is that you've all silenced something in the coalition, which you usually vehemently refer to almost as a holy birch. This is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which I quote instead: "It cannot be argued that the postponement or rejection of the amendment of the law in the referendum at this time would have counter-constitutional consequences." It cannot be argued that it would have anti-constitutional consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the opinion of our legal service, which you usually rely on blindly. This translated into Slovenian means: the requirement for a constitutional review is without any serious legal argument. So much for what our legal profession says. Then let's see what your argument is really about constitutional law. The Constitutional Court, when it considers a referendum question, really weighs constitutional law, because the right to a referendum decision, to direct decision of the people, is a constitutional right. In fact, what does your key argument mean that the legal tariffs are not regulated by this law at all, that they have not even been reduced, as you have been vehemently saying, is what you have now repeated several times. In view of the fact that you presented the material today, I quote: "The main problem is that the legal rate has been reduced by 66% by two thirds." This was said at a meeting of the Bar Association and has been attracted by virtually all the presidents of the regional organisations. That's the main problem. The Constitutional Court will have to assess two: whether the current regime is in order and how high it is. Is refusing a referendum really the only way to raise these bar tariffs? For apparently the goal is to increase by two thirds. This is based on the current level for three times. Look, if this was the only way, the Constitutional Court might be attracted. But it's not the only way. No, no, no, no, no! In fact, there are two ways in the game. The current legal path is for the National Assembly to decide on this in the context of the amendment of the Law on legal tariffs. Of course transparent, in front of the public. What you want with this novel is that - but only after the Minister's prior agreement - you can decide formally at the Bar. Is this really about defending the independence of lawyers? In any case, lawyers are one of the parties to this process. In one case, as proponents, they draw attention to a weakness, and without all right, the minister would even have a duty to assess that there could have been difficult remedial consequences for this, to propose a new law on legal tariffs, which would suggest raising these legal tariffs for the so-called free aid which is actually paid by taxpayers and for representation under official duty. But he didn't do it. He prefers to propose something else. The arrangement whereby two colleagues meet somewhere far away from the eyes of the public, because it is the nature of the work of the executive branch of power, will then get someone's prior consent and people will only be faced with sudden legal tariffs flying into the sky. It's the only difference. There's nothing else. And even more for the hair is covered for exactly the same reason the other key argument you have to take because of the tariff on audit procedures. What do you really suggest? In this amendment of the law you propose a limit to the former level, but with a limited duration. It says, quote, "until that new regulation is enforced." [[...]] That is where the President of the Bar and Mr Minister will meet, and the President of the Bar is, of course, permanently addressing the Minister with "my colleague", then it is clear how you will deal with him. And only until then does this limit apply. Which way she'll go then, it's probably not hard to guess. Someone up to the sky. If anyone thinks she's gonna fall, then of course she's got every right to. After all, some today believe that the earth is a flat plate. What is crucial to understanding this debate is that when some talk about free aid, this free aid is what we pay taxpayers. Therefore, of course, we are still talking about this because it concerns all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it is still possible to do so and it is also imperative to give the people their full consideration. Because it's something that touches everyone. Firstly, we pay everyone as taxpayers, and in particular pay legal services to those seeking their right in court. In view of the forecast that legislation should be amended in a short time, so that other courts, where it is not necessary now, need to hire a lawyer, it is clear that there will be more of these beneficiaries. I don't want to be too long, let's see how it goes with the rest. But there is one consensus. The fact that some lawyers, but beware, are small, obviously well-organised and politically supported by the ruling coalition, withdraw from the list for free legal aid paid by taxpayers or by representation on official duty is in fact something that is deeply contrary to ethics and also to the Code of Lawyers. I think there's a consensus on that. But is this really the reason to prevent the exercise of constitutional law, which is really the decision at the referendum? I'm sure that's not true. However, it is an obvious blackmail of this group, a purely ordinary blackmail, which is directly comparable because it is a constitutional right, by what is the regulation when it comes to our health; health is also a constitutional category, the right to health, as is the right to judicial protection of the constitutional category. And it is the representation of duty that comes when it comes to people who cannot pay themselves and, on the other hand, to the most problematic things that have irreparable consequences for someone if there is bad legal representation. So this is the same as if the doctors at the E.R. said we wouldn't operate until the country doubles our salary. You've never seen anything like it anywhere in the world. And I must also say that I have checked that there is no such case between lawyers in the European Union, but they have similar legal arrangements in a number of countries, including Germany. And this is where we come up with the next argument. Earlier, it was completely sedated that they had such an arrangement with the law only in Germany and Austria. That is not true, since Mr Tsukati had previously read the entire list on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. But what is essential and why we have talked about these two countries several times today: Slovenia is constitutionally a member of the Roman-German legal system and is therefore our first constitutional example of the arrangements of Germany and Austria. Not only for us as legislator and founder, but also for the Constitutional Court to look at what has already happened there, and it is often also referred to in its decisions. And it is in these two countries that these tariffs are regulated by law, just like the current regime. So the proposal, your novels, constitutionally distances us from what is normal there. What you're saying as a reason is really the opposite. And more than that, you were saying that only in our constitution is explicitly mentioned as a separate category. Yes, but if you go to our library and ask for that big book that touches the German constitution with explanations, more authors, read what they write about this thing. They make it very clear that they also have this constitutional category, although it is not explicitly written in the constitution, but rather treated as such. And that is why, of course, this argument is on quite a few broken legs or is legally irrelevant. Since this is obviously just a purely ordinary blackmail of a well-organised and ruling coalition of vehemently supported small groups of lawyers within the bar as a whole, it is quite clear that it is very unlikely that the Constitutional Court would be subject to such blackmail. Nor is there a proper comparison with the judges, for the judicial branch of power is a separate branch of power, written as such in the constitution, nor have the judges ever required to regulate their salaries themselves, but they said to be regulated in a special law or at an appropriate height. However, the legal tariffs are already regulated by a special law. So this condition is already satisfied, and this argument of yours falls on the line as well. And all that talk about autonomy is that, in any case, the lawyers will never decide for themselves. The question is only whether it will be linked to Parliament as a democratic institution, where it is under public control, where the change of tariffs will be subject to controversy in the face of arguments, or whether this will occur somewhere in a single agreement with the Minister, after prior agreement, far from the public eye. And that's all the difference that touches that. Of course, it is clearly clear that it is in the public interest to go to a referendum and vote against the amendment of the law in order to keep the public open to this process, particularly when we are facing an economic crisis which the ruling coalition has further deepened in its incompetence. As far as the end is concerned, the matter is more than transparent. In fact, it is only a matter of avoiding so that a referendum with the European elections can be held at the same time. This would practically make the referendum almost free and costs would indeed be minimal. However, if it is specific, costs will be relatively high. And then I firmly believe that it is all those who today claim that this is not in the game of the ruling coalition, that they will cry out vehemently, that it is a waste of money for these things, and that it is a waste of taxpayers' money. And we'll listen to it as much as you want. That's what I hope to bet now. However, in any case, this topic is open, ladies and gentlemen, and it will be an account without a tavern, because this topic is open, even if you send it to the Constitutional Court today, there will be a subject of public controversy and in no case will it be possible to avoid it just below the table. What about her size, what kind of money is it? Well, let's convert this into coffee, because the ruling coalition is responding to the challenges of the economic crisis with coffee. The price of coffee in a good restaurant is 1 euro. The price we will pay if you vote that this goes to the Constitutional Court and execute tactics so that a referendum with European elections will not be held at the same time, when it is practically free, because everyone comes to the polls, all committees are already in session, so the mechanism of control is in motion, and for each referendum there are about three million euros. So one cup of coffee will be paid by the president himself, and three million coffees will be thrown out the window. Then we are surprised if economic growth in Slovenia has fallen from plus 7% in the time of the government of Janez Janša in just a few months to -4% during your reign. I can only say I'm sorry that I did. But what about your initiative, and I firmly believe that the Constitutional Court and you yourself know very well at this time, but it is very clearly written in the legal opinion of the National Assembly Legal Service: "It is not possible to claim that the postponement or rejection of the amendment of the law at this time in the referendum would have a constitutional effect." Of course, everything you say today has no legal weight.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I would like to answer some of the questions that some of the Members or Members have asked me or have responded to some of the recommendations that have also been heard today. The first recommendation, I admit, I do not understand very well that, because of the blackmail afforded by lawyers, the Minister should settle the issue of their awards with a decree. Of course, I can't do that, I don't want that either, and it wasn't a proposal. These issues can only be settled by law for the time being and, of course, the proposal is different. So here I don't think I'll be able to follow this recommendation. With regard to the question of why it was also necessary to intervene on this issue of the competence of the various authorities in setting legal tariffs and why it was not before the Constitutional Court's decision to repeat it. Because, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and in this part, this opinion was also adopted by the Legal and Legislative Service at the time of the previous examination of the Bar Association Act and on the legal tariffs, because this issue is not regulated in accordance with the Constitution. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, this is a situation in which, according to our Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this Parliament is also obliged to take care of the adoption of such solutions, which are constitutionally consistent, at all times in the implementation of normative activities. This is why it is not a matter of what is more politically comfortable. As a minister, it would be much more politically comfortable for me to keep everything the way it is, because I do not have any political responsibility for the area of legal tariffs. Unfortunately, this is not the criteria that can guide me to work, but I must be guided by the criteria of constitutionality and legality. And that's why you had to bite into this politically acidic apple. With regard to the question of why an undertaking under the Law Code is not directly used. Because the code is not law and does not have the power of law. It's a set of principles of professional ethics. In particular, a violation of such a principle, if it does not have a legal basis, cannot result in sanctions, in particular, not, for example, the withdrawal of a legal license. It was therefore necessary to settle this issue with the law. Here was mentioned my predecessor and his professional references, which are indisputable. And I'm sure Minister Sturm didn't want it to happen that he was signed under a bad marriage. No minister wants that. But that's what happened, that's an objective fact. And it's our common duty to fix this. And that's what we're trying to do now. It has been mentioned that other measures, such as drastic increases in the number of lawyers, should be taken into account if we have a ratio of judges: lawyers 1:1 in Germany 1:10. I'm not sure about Germany. But I know something that the problem with this relationship is mainly because we have far too many judges in Slovenia because we are the country with the largest number of judges per population in Europe. Slovenia has 55 per 100,000 and then the next country, I think Croatia 42 per 100,000 and Austria 22 to 23 per 100,000. There are no Germans in these countries at all. The issue of these relations must also be considered in this context. It was mentioned that the aim of the amendment was to raise legal tariffs three times. I repeat, I really don't know where you got these predictions. No one has talked about the increase or decrease in legal tariffs; no proceedings are ongoing; no initiative has yet been given in this regard. It's pure drowning, and that's why I'm rejecting it. The role of the Bar in setting tariffs has been mentioned. This is, in fact, the main problem with the anti-constitutional effect relating to tariff fixing. Under the current regulation, the Bar does not have any role, but absolutely no role in this procedure. And if you consider that it is a chamber that brings together individuals who carry out legal professions as a free profession, then common sense can tell you that there is something wrong with it - that a certain influence of the chamber must have. And that's what the Constitutional Court said back in 1998, and that's what the Constitutional Court's decision already exists. This also strengthens the government in the belief that this part is an unconstitutional situation. This does not mean, however, that lawyers should be able to set tariffs in full and independently and without mentioning the valuable impact of those who are concerned with the public interest. Absolutely not. A suitable tariff codecision model should be found. And this is exactly the model that is included in the novel of the Law on Lawyers. It was mentioned that this new model, where two former colleagues, former colleagues or whatever their names are, will meet secretly and set legal tariffs. Yes, please! Who do you think's gonna believe this? In particular, when it comes to the Bar, the President of the Bar does not have and does not have any powers under the old regulation of tariffs. This is a matter for the Bar Association. However, the Assembly of the Bar are all Slovenian lawyers. They are the ones who will participate in this process of coordination with the Ministry of Justice, not the President. So please don't deceive people with such claims. Either way, we appoint lawyers from the list of lawyers on official duty, or those who provide free legal aid, blackmail or anything else, but it is legally considered to be their right, unfortunately. But they have that right and they've taken advantage of it. Therefore, it is the duty of the National Assembly to remedy this situation. And it can only be corrected by establishing this as a lawyer's legal duty and not a right. And that's what this novel is about. If this novel is not enforced, there will be counter-constitutional consequences. Finally, a constant return to the German and Austrian model for setting legal tariffs. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not so easy to align the arrangements in different countries, since these arrangements have arisen in different historical, legal and other circumstances. If you are already doing this, then please be correct and say that in Germany and Austria, where the legal rate is laid down by law, something that is not in Slovenia is also laid down by law. That is, according to the lawyers, it is mandatory to appear before the courts that the client cannot appear before the judge without being represented by a lawyer. This is not the case in Slovenia. We only have this regime when it comes to the issue of an exceptional remedy for the audit before the Supreme Court. This is the only case of mandatory representation by lawyers, otherwise not. This is a big difference, which then gives a different justification to the legislator. If you guarantee a business to someone in the way it is done in Germany and Austria, then the impact of the one who gives you this guarantee on the price of your services may be higher. And vice versa, if there is no guarantee, then this influence must be more balanced. I hope that all these issues will also be examined by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues! Let me say immediately at the outset that I will vote in favour of the decision of the Group of Members, which has been confirmed by the Home Committee today. After all, I was also a cosigner of this decision or document. Why am I voting like that? In order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State which would have occurred if, due to the absence of lawyers, it would not have been possible to carry out appropriate procedural actions, in particular in pre-trial and criminal proceedings, in particular in so-called detention cases, when the courts cannot order detention if the presence of a lawyer is not ensured. More than once, it has been mentioned today that these hard-to-repar consequences of the 2008 Law, the new law, from the time of the government of Janez Janša, which we are now correcting or were correcting last week by adopting a new novel. These new solutions follow the constitutional principle that lawyers are independent and independent professions governed by the law. In the first place, it's not for lawyers, it's for clients. Therefore, interference with the independence of the lawyer means interference with the rights of benefit and the interests of the parties. The newly adopted amendment also follows the principle of effective protection of public benefit, protection of the rights of parties in relation to a lawyer or a lawyer's company, protection of the constitutional right to judicial protection and protection of socially disadvantaged persons. Today, it has been repeatedly mentioned how tariffs have been lowered. By the way, it has been repeatedly mentioned that this is a matter of another law, a law on judicial tariffs. But regardless, perhaps the case in the area of inheritance, the case of the inheritance of an apartment. 53,000 euros worth a flat. In such a case, according to the previous system, the prizes and costs of the lawyer at the old rate were €1,606, at a new rate that our colleagues claim to have fallen by two-thirds higher: €2,723, which is stronger than or not so far, but an old tariff that was before the entry into force of the tariff law. As I said, I will vote in favour of the conclusion that the review in the Constitutional Court will first be carried out, and I am sure that the Constitutional Court will adopt the proposals that we have put forward, and the referendum will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, fellows! Before I signed this proposal, because I was among the signatories, I had some dilemmas and concerns. The last time we discussed this law, I abstained from voting because I, as a layman and as a member who was perhaps not informed until then, even listened to some of my opposition colleagues' arguments. In that dilemma, I decided to abstain. Then I started to get deeper. I've read all the materials, once again the law, all the arguments, I've listened to everyone, including and above all to Minister Zalar, and I've decided to sign them, and I'm sure of that. The story is well known - the opposition is using or abusing a motive, an argument that is very useful, to re-create a field of profoundly demagogic debate about something where exactly the opposition is trying to obscure the essence of this law. And today we hear both sides and it is clear to everyone that the only political objective of the opposition colleagues is to reach elections with a strong demagogic and populist argument. I am sorry, fellow opposition, you do not have European programmes, you do not have convincing slogans for European elections, and you needed something complementary to mobilize your own public, your own voters, who would otherwise not go to the polls in the same number as expected. And you've gone to the law that deals with, I'm not going to say justice, but the functioning of one segment of society that is independent under our Constitution. You suggest that this segment of society is even perfiden, even parasitic, that it wants to set its own prices, tariffs, and thus impoverish society and the poor. In fact, you're acting like a pervert because you know that this law is the only possible guarantee for those who don't have the money. You've heard excellent arguments today. By means of this law, we will provide all citizens and all citizens with the opportunity and the right to free legal aid. You know that, but you deliberately point out other aspects that actually have nothing to do with this law. Mr Cukjat even spoke about the law on legal tariffs. We're talking today about the law on lawyering. This law defines a system whereby there will be no collective self-government responsibility of Members and Members in setting tariffs, but will be the responsibility of the Government, which is very clear and specialised by Mr Minister, who will assume the responsibility of coordinating this topic with the Chamber of Economics. You know the Constitution here is very clear. It defines lawyers as an independent profession and not as a public office. If you want to nationalize lawyers, support them and create government officials for whom you and we will all set tariffs together, that is another question. We can talk about nationalizing everything, including lawyers. But that's not it, gentlemen of the opposition, because you know that. It is a question of the independence of the lawyer, who can nevertheless, this finding in American films, also provides independent procedures for the defendants, defends them, defends human rights and the right of any defendant to legal aid. Second thing. There's a lot of talk about the referendum, about the constitutional rights of the referendum. And you also know that what we demand today is not to prevent a referendum, but a constitutional opinion on the potential unconstitutional aspects of such a referendum. If this judgment is not in favour of the applicants, within 30 days the Constitutional Court must clearly determine whether these consequences are or are not. If not, there will be a referendum with the European elections. You know that. Why are you speculation about the hidden purpose of the position? Please, all the deadlines set by the Constitution allow, without the constitutional consequences of such a referendum, a referendum, together with the European elections. And don't say it's for nothing. Nevertheless, such a referendum would cost and increase the costs of those elections. However, if we stay at the moment of tariffs, you also know that you do not hold to your claim that these tariffs will now automatically increase. See, in the case of inheritance, where, for example, heirs claim between 5,000 and 10,000 euros of property, according to the law before 2008, the old law, before Sturmov, the lawyer received a four hundred and eighty euro prize. According to the new tariff, that is, according to Sturm's law, six twenty-seven euros. For righteousness between ten thousand and twenty thousand euros the lawyer would have received five hundred thirty-three euros, according to the new law of Sturm, one thousand and one hundred and two euros. Of course, there are also examples that point to a mirror image or to a reverse image. But that's exactly what indicates the system's mismatch in setting tariffs. They're not gonna be defined by lawyers. We are talking about a solicitor's chamber that has to coordinate its tariff system with the Government and the Government takes full responsibility to the public for possible withdrawal from what has been said and guaranteed here today. That's why it's an attempt at cheap demagogy. It must be made clear to the public that there is a bill on the one hand that takes care of all citizens and citizens. Especially for those who don't have a chance to pay for a lawyer. On the other hand, there is an attempt to stop time at Sturm’s law, even though some constitutional voids can occur, which are very dangerous because they can destabilise society. But as a fellow member of our parliamentary group said, perhaps this is the intention of the opposition, perhaps constitutional instability suits you, especially in times of crisis and recession, so that you will then blame the Government for the situation. I think the purpose is clear. And if we have, and if we want to look for backgrounds, the only place behind it is where we can create conditions for the disruption of this country's functioning. I will therefore strongly support the proposal, which I have also signed and which corresponds to the constitutionality of this country. The opposition well knows that Article 137 of the Constitution states that lawyers are independent and independent as part of the judiciary. In this regard, it is even the Constitutional Court of 1998; and I know that I repeat myself, but the fact is that it is necessary to repeat the fact that there are still some unfulfilled, unfulfilled, unconstitutional decisions; and in 1998 the Constitutional Court decided that the legislator should not directly affect the price of legal services, but that he can do so only in agreement, in an agreement with the Chamber of Lawyers, which is part of our constitutional system. Despite the fact that Mr Grimes keeps repeating that we should hang ourselves on the German-Austrian legal system. Look, we're a sovereign country, we're a member of the European Union. The European Union is made up of different democratic and legal countries and we have different models. Mr Černač spoke about the eighteen countries on television that are supposed to have the system the opposition wants. That's not true. You've been demented, Mr. Blackach, admit it. Two countries and today Mr Grims has hanged himself in these two countries, a respectful, absolutely excellent country. Germany and Austria. But these are two models. They're not the only ones. Once again, I propose that we stick to some of the principles of the rule of law, the Constitution, democracy and, above all, justice for all citizens and citizens of this country. So this time I will confidently support this request and wait. As a citizen, I am very interested in what the Constitutional Court will say in the end, and I will listen to the Constitutional Court because I trust the Constitutional Court for now, and I hope that you, my opposition colleagues, also trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u88	Yes, Mr. Blackach, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u89	Just for a little while. In nine countries of the European Union, the tariff is partly determined by the legislative or executive authority. Mr Juri, in the nine tariffs, the legislative or executive authority is fully established. In three cases, the tariff is not fixed by a special act, five tariffs set by the Bar without the consent of the Ministry and one country, and that is Slovenia or, in the event that the referendum does not reject this issue, the so-called Collegiate Council, the former LDS Minister of Justice, the current President of Mr Kozin's Bar and the current LDS Minister for Justice. This is the only country, not only in Europe, but in the world, unless this law is rejected by people at a referendum, which you want to prevent in any way by force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u90	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. If the current opposition has to admit something, then it must be acknowledged that without any reservations they will use, I will not say abuse, any procedural possibility to exercise their political will and to promote this political will. No matter how much or what it costs us. Demagogy and populism, however, are an appropriate tool for you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to believe that you are concerned because lawyers are supposed to dissipate them without any shame, while the ruling coalition holds their bag. You say that it would be only right for the National Assembly to impose legal tariffs, but you will not see, on purpose, that all the tariffs under Sturm's law will be voted by a majority of the votes in Parliament on the basis of a proposal from the current government, and that lawyers themselves, or the Bar, who directly provide and care for the implementation of legal aid and legal representation, will put people in different proceedings out of this process. In doing so, the constitutional provision that legal representation as part of justice is free and independent service does not matter to you. There are also some totally inappropriate comparisons with doctors and other activities, which just confirm that you do not understand this constitutional provision. Likewise, you would like to turn the National Assembly into some kind of accounting that will prepare and accept some kind of price or cost, while, hand to heart, the vast majority of Members have no idea what legal services are at all and what their direct content is. But even though you all talk so much about tariffs today, about unjustifiable wealth, about ripping off the poor and so on, we all know very well that this is not the first place for tariffs, even though we do not deny that we should simply point them out to be taken under the magnifying glass and checked. By the way, in your previous mandate, you have greatly improved the material situation of all those who are already more wealthy and rich by amending tax legislation. However, the Storm Act introduced enormous tariffs in the procedures for the revision of public procurement. Also, legal awards have been increased depending on the value of the subject, as we have heard several times today. No, this is not the case, but it is the fact that Sturm's law has already been brought about, and more and more indictees show that it will lead to an unconstitutional situation when, in judicial proceedings that are precisely laid down in individual laws, it will not be possible to provide defendants of representation under official duty or free legal aid to those who are entitled to such free legal aid because of their financial situation. It is first of all whether conditions are laid down to ensure that the rule of law is consistently enforced, or whether adequate legal security and appropriate legal assistance are provided, which will enable defendants to defend themselves in a qualitative manner and to enforce the legal remedies available to them. On the other hand, the State will be in a position to properly carry out criminal proceedings against accused persons and to prove to them, without a doubt, the crimes it has committed. Have not the current government, as well as the previous one, highlighted the fight against organised and more serious economic crime, corruption among the crime priorities? Now you will create a situation where there will be not enough lawyers who would like to represent such accused under official responsibility and these proceedings will not be "procedure". You're saying it's mandatory for the referendum to be signed after the Constitution. This is true, but it is also true that Article 21 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which is adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, gives the opportunity to request the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the proposed referendum if the consequences could arise. And now the word is that the Constitutional Court should judge that. The national assembly, or the corresponding number of Members requiring a referendum, are not without all responsibility when they use this option to request a referendum, and this is also the responsibility of the legislator. During your previous term of office, you have accepted the laws of Sturm, which have brought a lot of confusion into our legal order. Today, we can only find in despair that our justice and the rule of law in the sensitive area of human rights protection, climate change has not gone far. Even then, it was the irresponsible work of the legislator, which we must admit. When you have so much reference to the German acquis and when you talk about climate change, which often "demonstrate" in destructive storms. What's it called in German to the storm? True, Germany and Austria are regulating the tariff by law, but then we have other arrangements, and I don't know where you got those information that you quoted earlier. So there is also an arrangement where the tariff is fixed by the competent minister, for example in the Czech Republic and Slovakia or the government, but in this case on the proposal of the legal association. In some cases, however, the price of their services is determined by the lawyer himself and may only be linked to a code of legal ethics which does not prescribe specific prices. So, for example, France, Ireland, Finland, Great Britain, Malta, Sweden. You're not going to say that these are some exotic countries? With us, the founder has already determined that the lawyer is a self-serving and independent service and that he is part of the judiciary. I'm sure he had special reasons to make that determination. And it is on this basis that the legislator's commitments to regulate this area are based on how it will be regulated by law, while ensuring that the independence and independence of the lawyer is ensured. But there is something else that needs to be added; it would be really hard to resist. In 1998, the Constitutional Court decided that the legislator should not directly affect the price of legal services and that only the Minister of Justice, but not arbitrarily, could do so in negotiations with the Bar. Who was the President of this Constitutional Court at the time? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Although my predecessor made fun of the name of the former minister and of his German significance the word storm, I must say that if poet Gregorčič still lived, who once had Mahnič as a storm from Crassus, he would probably mark the colleague after today's performance as "the storm from Gorenjska". And very stormy coalition MPs are here today. You are very stormy in your defense of something that you are convinced is wrong, and we are confident that the Constitutional Court will not give you the right. In fact, at every point of your reasoning, there is a requirement to assess the constitutionality of the referendum initiative and such deception that we are constantly receiving at today's meeting. Think about it, colleague Franco Juri said earlier that the current law that we are giving to the referendum provides all citizens with free legal aid; he repeated it twice, so it is not a setback. It's a conscious deception of people. And I couldn't imagine such a low-level deceiving. Of course, many things are important that you anticipate in this law, which we are also trying to prevent through a referendum. And we also have a referendum on such cases that the people can decide on matters that otherwise cannot be prevented. Look, in this case, you're saying that the victims are lower-income citizens. Of course they are, but why? I say that the majority of lawyers are also partly victims in this case, because the senior representatives of the authorities of these political parties, who have excellent ties with some of the interested parties, have been aspiring among lawyers to step out of the Institute for free legal assistance and representation under official responsibility. And it's perverse that now you're talking about lawyers blackmailing. Of course, it's immoral and unethical that they got out of it, but that's what you prepared them for, because you wanted to burn Reichstag. You wanted a reason why the minister could have made a change to the law, but it had the weight of inciting tariffs. And now you're in a little bit of trouble. I have followed very closely, many MEPs have changed their arguments according to the committee's morning. But Mrs Cveta Zalokar and Mr Potrč were very clear in the morning when they said about the tariffs that they trusted the Minister. Mrs Cveta thus said that she would arrange matters for legal tariffs in an appropriate manner, that is, so that there will be no more significant rise. And Mr Potts also said that he did not believe that it would be an important lift. Of course, it is clear from their argument that a rise is anticipated. The increase in tariffs is foreseen, this is agreed upon. And that's why you're very clear in front of people. You don't care how much it costs if they don't come to European elections. And if you don't care so much if you don't care about money, if you can spend it just because you're not stalling, then give lawyers extra rewards under another law so they can offer free legal aid. So, budget, finances, all this doesn't matter to you. Earlier, a colleague had said that the Constitutional Court was being attacked on this side. No, we are deeply trusting the Constitutional Court, and right there, from LDS, Mr. Germic said that he was not trusting or attacking the court. I think it's a serious assault on a court or a mistrust of what I'm about to read to you. When it came to the court's sentence and the pay system for which the judges began to strike, the current minister wrote to them: "The real possibilities for the freezing of the Constitutional Court are smaller, for the first time, because the composition of the Constitutional Court has changed unfavorably." Isn't that mean to constitutional judges? That she had changed unfavorably and, in fact, as if they had been manipulative before. So don't attack this party about discrediting the Constitutional Court, because it doesn't. Then my colleague Zalokareva also said that there would be no terrible consequences, and that procedures for the worst crimes would not fail. Yeah, well, that's not how they run in this country for the worst crimes and genocide for war crimes. But the court, where, I think, the current minister was the president, refused to press charges for genocide after the war. No, they're running away, but there was no problem that the natives should have free legal aid. He could afford the best lawyers, and he had the best lawyers. Don't talk like that. This has not actually happened in this country to prosecute the worst crimes. It was said here that in this country there are the most judges, which is a fact. However, they strike permanently and there is the greatest damage, the greatest violation of constitutional rights after a fair trial, after a trial in due course and unfortunately the minister is not successful here. Even because of this letter, certainly, then, before the elections, because the judges are now blackmailing him and probably blackmailing him, as you yourself said, lawyers, because they were urged from your kind to get out of these letters. Of your kind. We have information. To do so and, of course, to blackmail. I think lawyers are entitled to fight for tariffs and everything they own. It's legitimate and they'll fight for it. And we are the ones who have to have some kind of relationship with every citizen. And if there are certain tariffs, they are said to be too low, the minister should propose amending the Law on Lawyers, not the Law on Lawyers. And it could be arranged and evened out and normally done. Since there may have been some mistake, only by such an approach this objective is not pursued, political objectives and actually pre-election promises that must be fulfilled on your part are pursued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, can I help you? Mr. Yuri, I'm not entirely sure I'd hear your name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u95	and once there is also [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u96	Is it true that you quoted him twice? [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u97	I must say that I am always fascinated when I listen to my colleague Jerovska, and I say to myself: Sancta simplicity! How nice, how simple everything in life is if Mr Jerovšek understands it." And, of course, he also understood my statement as misleading. I have stressed, and once again I stress that this law will give all citizens and citizens the right to legal protection, to legal aid. And for those who don't have money, the possibility of getting free legal aid. That's right. That's it. [[There's no replica to the replica, Mr. Jerovšek, you know.]] The fact is that the law you want or so-called Smurf Law does not provide for any sanctions on those lawyers leaving lists, lists of lawyers who should offer their services free of charge to those citizens who do not have the opportunity to pay their lawyer. And that's all this is about. And perhaps Mr Jerovšek understood himself well, but he deceives and speaks of deception. Saneta simplitas.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts. There's something I'd like to warn you. You have not yet debated, but you have presented the position of your Group of Members. You want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u99	He named me. Ask Mr Jerovska if he named me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u100	No, I'm sure of that. Once again, according to the Rules of Procedure - you have only presented the position of the Group of Members, but you have not yet discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u101	Mr Vice President, if you think I don't have the right to a replica, I'd like to save it for later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u102	We'll talk. Here you go, Mr. Germich, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u103	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Comrade Jerovšek, I know you don't like it when we remind you of your relationship with the Constitutional Court or with the independent authorities of this country. Just to refresh her memory, in this Chamber she was intertwined by your Minister, who respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court and wanted to enforce this decision. Another time. The decision of the Court of Auditors for your client and for the Government, which was then placed with your coalition, did not count. And today we have heard again about this speaker that you already have doubts in advance that the Constitutional Court will decide in such a way and, therefore, a message to the Slovenian public, the court has already ruled in advance. I have only pointed out that these are not proper relations with the Constitutional Court, and in this way of course we do not strengthen Slovenia's reputation as a state of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u106	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. I, too, have an opinion on some lawyers, but this is not the topic of today's conversation, today's debate with the National Assembly. And if there's no other word, the SDS referendum will come in handy. That way we could sum up your behavior. Around each corner, the biggest opposition party is either waiting for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly or with the threat of a referendum. In the face of the serious and worrying problems that we have, not only in this country, but everywhere in the world, at least half the time in the National Assembly, we are dealing with demands that represent an incredible source of manipulation and public deception. First of all, around the cost. Today, it has been repeatedly said that there will be no additional costs if there is a referendum on the day of the European elections. Ask around, please, I'm up. The additional costs will be at least €1 million. Did you ask yourself? A million euros. What's a million euros? And the request for the referendum that is before us today is nothing more than the manipulation that you are repeating today in the National Assembly all day long. Today, the competent minister has repeatedly explained what was the reason for the amendment of the Law on Lawyers. Lawyers no longer want to represent clients on official duty. And this is one of the concrete consequences of Smurf's law. And today to say what will follow from the adopted novel is completely empty speech. This reminds me of another referendum when the announcements about the lower subscription, the better TV programme, the autonomy of journalism and the same persons were operating on the same referendum with data on the lowering of the RTV subscription, and today they calculated that the legal tariffs would be raised three times. I believe that with a political calculator it is possible to calculate a lot of things, even though none of them are true. It is only true that legal tariffs do not rise, but they decrease in the work when it comes to the revision of public contracts. And today I was really disturbed by one more thing, talking about ethics and morality. I, as I have already said, am critical of the conduct of a number of lawyers, but the referendum is not going to solve this, nor are we called for it. So do the candidates for this referendum want to order citizens and citizens to decide on morals, on ethics? As has already been said, such judgments are not given at referendums but elsewhere. Today it was also said, "Maybe you want more people to come to the European elections." If I recall correctly, it was the president of your party who was making some predictions about the great success of the SDS in the June elections. I'll give you a very good result. SDS, you already know why you're doing this. Certainly not due to concerns related to the amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Legal Safety of Slovenian Citizens and Citizens. And if I sum it up, your fear has big eyes, but there's nothing inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u108	Mr. Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u109	Mr President, these debates of some Members of the National Assembly take place in a way that is the topic of the debate of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. They are streaming as if we are interpolating against our parliamentary group. I propose that you warn the Members who are discussing Members of the majority species, from the coalition, that they are discussing the subject, on the agenda. And yes, if the problems are already serious, then I suggest you call on the government to propose some serious anti-crisis measures to discuss serious issues. To suggest to the government that we are discussing an unnecessary increase in excise duties on fuel fuels, this is also a serious topic. To discuss why there was an unnecessary increase in RTV, this is also a serious topic. I suggest that those who speak will be the cost of the referendum if the referendum is in parallel with the European elections to bring about a forecast of these costs [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u110	Can you make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u111	I will. I'm not done yet, sir. I still have a minute and a half. I propose that the Minister submit a list of those who have withdrawn from the system of representation in free legal aid or that additional "ex offo". And I also propose that the Minister propose, in those cases where tariffs are too high, they are still too high, this is in the revision of public procurement procedures to submit an amendment to the Law on Lawyers' Tariffs. I have some procedural proposals here. This is said to call on the Government to submit counter-crisis measures to call on those who say how much the referendum will cost in case it takes place by European elections to present the tariff, the pricer of this. And I propose that the Minister submits two acts, so to speak, a list of those who have withdrawn from the free legal assistance of the parties' representation, with a view to submitting an amendment to the Law on legal tariff. These are four concrete procedural proposals. Otherwise, if this is not accepted or if you reject this proposal, I propose that the Members of the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democrats, the Group of Members of Parliament really invite them to discuss the agenda and not the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We stick to our Rules of Procedure, our programmes [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[Well, they'd learn to smile if they didn't.]] And so on. In short, allow work to take place as outlined by the meeting reference, not about everything else and about what has nothing to do with this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. As far as the questions are concerned, Mr Minister, I think that Mr Minister will answer your question after his assessment. As far as the content of the debate is concerned, as President of all Members, I will ask that you all stick to the agenda in your debate. Here you go, Mr. Yuri. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u113	Yeah, it's procedural. As MEP Tanka is disturbed by the obvious debate by Members of Parliament [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u114	Don't discuss it, please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u115	No, I'm not. This is an introduction to a procedural proposal. As he is disturbed by the debate, I propose that this meeting be shortened and that we move to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I can't put this to a vote. Since all procedural proposals have already been choked, Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. So, at the beginning of today's debate, I would expect Mr Saiovic to thank our Group for being able to propose something, because we first proposed it, namely, a debate or a request to call for a legislative referendum, that he could then be the first to speak here as a candidate. In fact, if we didn't suggest it, it would be difficult for me to propose today's point, and he's the first speaker. At the same time, I must say that I myself do not agree with the violation of the Rules of Procedure concerning the allocation of time for discussion. And if you were so upset by your colleagues on the other hand about the procedural proposal made by your colleague, I would expect you to be even more upset at the beginning of the meeting when you, along with your fellow Member, Mr Anderlic, found that you were violating the Rules of Procedure. Now to the darkness. It's amazing that you're saying that you don't approve of blackmail, blackmail by lawyers, but you're still up for it, and you've agreed to blackmail. Even more terrible is the dramatization of my colleague, what happens if someone walks through Slovenia and kills and does not have free legal aid. We've heard that some lawyers are off the lists, others are signing in. Well, we'll find one to represent him in these cases. When we discussed the law, we raised a number of questions, or I had them myself. Why are we dealing with the law in March, but if you've written down the government's programme that you're going to put the marriage on the table in July? From the materials we got we got some answers. The president of the Bar says so, and that's even in the record because the minister said so. "We have been in telephone conversations with the president of the Chamber since the beginning of his term of office." Clearly, then, the pressure to change this law has been on the table since the beginning of the new minister's term of office. The minister said there when they heard a whole bunch of things at the Board of Directors' Chamber or, as they call it, the threat that if the law didn't change by April, the lawyers would have threatened to strike. The Minister said there that it would be very difficult, but obviously not too difficult, because it is happening and the Minister himself said on the committee that lawyers are an important legal system, so they would expect the first to respect the body in this system, namely the Constitutional Court and wait for its decision on their constitutional judgment. And the minister couldn't answer why he couldn't wait. The Minister with authority would be expected to be able to tell the lawyers that it is necessary to wait for a decision of the Constitutional Court and then to make changes that are consistent with what the Constitutional Court may require to be amended. Why was the law changed last year? We wanted to eliminate the backlog, we wanted lawyers and parties to be encouraged to resolve disputes as quickly as possible. In the way we had it before, and the lawyer is, we'll say, he could have been stalling things. In short, this time a lawyer is rewarded if the case is quickly closed, if he does not come to court, it is said that an out-of-court and judicial settlement is concluded and most disputes resolved before they come to court. This is an important burden on the courts and thus in Germany they solve 80% of the cases. This has an extremely positive impact both on the reduction of court proceedings and on the so-called judicial backlog. It was stated that lawyers had to issue an account on which the specification of what they had done for that money was also determined to set the legal tariffs by law and therefore the law was also adopted and since 1. 1. 2009 is valid. And since this law has been given, on legal tariffs, it has obviously upset lawyers so much that they will no longer be able to charge every item, every letter of participation on the petitions and in the debates that they have resisted and demanded the minister to do something. In the period from 1. 1. Since the Law on legal tariffs has been in force, the costs of legal proceedings for a party have generally been reduced, even by more than two thirds, for example in enforcement proceedings. As a result, this means less profits for lawyers, since they do not get more than 20 or more €20 for simple applications from now on, but between €5 and €10. Of course, they wanted and, clearly, asked the minister to reopen the law or to reopen the possibility of increasing their earnings. Why are legal tariffs important? Since this is a large part, because free legal aid is not free of charge, we pay it all taxpayers, which is a lot of money for these services. In last year's year, 8.5 million, 5 million is foreseen for this year. Why is that? For the purposes of the lower tariffs. We also received some conclusions and records from the district councils of lawyers in the material. If I only read one, they're all pretty much alike. To say that the legal tariffs will not change is to be carried out, as lawyers say that "All lawyers of the District Council of Lawyers are to be removed from all lists of courts regarding the provision of legal services in judicial cases initiated after 1. 1. 2009, in the area of free legal aid..." and so on, "...because we disagree with the award at the legal rate of 1. 1. 2009." So, Minister, if you've given in for the first time, you'll do it the second time and you'll certainly raise these tariffs. And there's something else you need to say here. Each individual lawyer must notify himself in court in order to be on the list for the provision of these services, and must also require himself to be removed from that list. That's why all these decisions about the exit of all lawyers are quite controversial for me. In addition, what they say in their decision: "A single lawyer who disagrees with this decision and is on those lists must explicitly inform the court itself that, despite the above-mentioned decision, he remains prepared to provide services under the new tariff." Excuse me? Is he going to have to go to court again now? You know, I don't agree with that, but I want to do what I applied for when I signed up. In short, some collective story, probably more than that, we'll say, is an innovative or more sophisticated lawyer producing in his own kind. And there's a lot of other flowers in the records. The votes were not all unanimous, although it says everywhere: "Accordingly accepted, people have been abstaining, some have been against" and I do not agree with that. To explain Article 6, the Minister wrote in a novel of his law : "The addition of this article is absolutely necessary because the Slovenian Bar Association itself notes that in practice there is increasing infringements of legal ethics and the charging of legal services in contravention of the legal rate. All of this undermines the legal side as well as the reputation of the attorney general." So obviously, the chamber can't handle this, but lawyers are violating ethics and so on and they're charging more than they can and we're now putting this back in their hands so that they can control it a little bit worse, just like they have so far. You could say it's already been seen if you're saying the tariff won't rise. As it is said, this is proved by the record, because they do not agree with the award, it means that even in the future they will not agree with the award and it is too little. The bar's proposals are even worse. The President, or the Chamber of Counsel, proposed to the Minister that the bar be decided by the Chamber without the consent of the other authorities. They would not even ask the Minister anything, except for free legal aid, the Ministry would decide in agreement with the Chamber. That's a little too much. We asked the minister how many lawyers had already been removed from the lists, how many were left, what was the better arrangement for the Bar to determine for themselves or with his consent. Some of you tell us we have doubts about the Constitutional Court. The first one is spoken to by the Minister, and he does not wait for a decision by the Constitutional Court. And of course we didn't get any answers. What's the problem? Some of you say nothing will change. Of course, since article 19 of the law states: "The bar tariff shall be adopted by the Chamber of Lawyers after the prior consent of the Minister responsible for justice." And "In accordance with the transitional and final provisions, the law on the legal rate shall cease to apply." The law on legal tariff will then be no more. And again. Lawyers, some of you were wondering what the Yanshe government would do. I'll tell you what I'd do. First, we would amend Article 5 as we did with this amendment, and we would have determined that lawyers must, so the President of the Court, by alphabetical order, appoint lawyers to represent on an official basis. The minister could have done so, but he, of course, had to stick to the lawyer's tariffs. We know why. And what else would we do? You're saying there's a problem with public procurement. First of all, the state should be aware that this is tax money and conduct procedures in such a way that it does not lose them. But if so, we could arrange it and change it in the Law on Lawyers' Tariffs. If that's such a big problem, not that we're changing the Law on Lawyers. And I'm sure Janša's government wouldn't give up under the pressure of lawyers. With his authority, Minister Šturm would tell his lawyer that he would wait for the Constitutional Court's decision and then act if necessary or not. Remember the pressures of introducing and modifying notary tariffs, and no notary has to date become any poor person, nor has it failed. Domestic costs, however, have been greatly undervalued, and people appreciate it. In short, let us trust people to decide for themselves the law at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Zalar asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. Two calls were made, the first to submit a list of those who have left the lists. The Ministry of Justice has submitted the documentation it currently has. If you feel that this documentation needs to be supplemented by a name list of those who stand out, we will, of course, request the Bar or Court. For messages are sent to the courts and not to the Ministry. But in this respect, I must say that this list of those who came out at the time may not be the most credible, because of course the situation has changed. For I have achieved that this decision has been frozen and that lawyers have continued to provide free legal aid and also representation in criminal proceedings. These lists are only evidence of the high probability of the anti-constitutional consequences that would arise in a situation that would have occurred if we did not reach out to the applicable Law on Lawyers. I think it is also right to say in this regard that every withdrawal from this list is also a legal procedure. And that the decision on the validity of such withdrawal is within the jurisdiction of the Presidents of the Courts. I am aware, however, that some of the Presidents of the Courts have requested the addition of these statements to the nominee of those persons withdrawing from these lists and have also received them. The second call was made for the Ministry of Justice to prepare amendments to and additions to the Law on Lawyers and to extend to the tariff in the part where the awards are awarded to lawyers when they represent the parties in the audit procedures relating to public procurement. This is where you suggest I break the law. Of course I won't do that. The current legal situation is such that the legislator and, of course, the Government, as a bill-maker, cannot address the same issue that is at the heart of the referendum decision. So, unfortunately, this initiative is not acceptable. Now, a few words about the fear of the consequences that will come and that this is just exaggeration. Let me say what I said this morning at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice. The first notice of lawyers protesting that they withdraw from the lists was received by the Ministry of Justice, if memory does not deceive me, on December 19th last year and I think it was the Regional Bar Association in Celje. Later, new notices came to light in a relatively short period of time, and some district councils decided on this issue to withdraw all lawyers, without exception, from the lists. Such a case occurred in the area of the district court in Krskem and the judge who dealt with a specific criminal case was the case in the course of the duty investigation service, where it is usually the case of a serious offence or, if there are grounds for detention, the person who was brought into custody to the investigating judge. And such a person, of course, must have an advocate. There are two options, one is to take him alone, the other is to put him in court on official duty. In this particular case, the person did not take his own counsel, and the court should put him up. When the court began calling on-call lawyers who had been on the list of lawyers on official duty until then, these lawyers informed them that they would not respond to the call because they had informed the court that they were leaving the list. In the conduct of criminal proceedings in such situations, time is crucial, due to the 24- and 48-hour deadlines set by the Constitution and the law. And in this situation, it would have been easy for a judge to find out that he could not pursue further proceedings, and he should have released such a person. In this situation, it was unfortunate that at that time the vast majority of the legal assemblies had not yet decided on these exits. First of all, this was not decided by the Ljubljana Regional Bar Association, and so this judge managed to obtain a lawyer from Ljubljana to come to the District Court in Krske and take over the office. It was therefore a specific case, a serious threat which indicated that this could happen on a systematic basis, not only in the area of the District Court in Krška, which is particularly risky from this point of view. Because due to the proximity of the Slovenian-Croatian border, there are many cases of detention and later detention before the investigating judge, especially when it comes to the issue of illicit drug trafficking or trafficking in human beings and the like. Later, a similar problem occurred in the area of the New York District Court. And when within a week it happened that almost all the district councils had already taken these decisions, which you are aware of, the Ministry was essentially left with nothing but an intervention response. And I have therefore tried to reach an agreement with the Management Board of the Bar to freeze these decisions, not to implement them, but at the same time to try together within the Joint Working Group to find solutions that will allow, for the first time, this institution of representation under official responsibility to carry out normal progress and for the second time to ensure compliance with the Constitution, which was the main reason for which the lawyers protested. Lawyers protested for two main reasons. The first reason was of principle nature and is linked to the constitutional position of the Bar and Attorney General in general. They believed that the regime in which the former Minister of Sturm went was in conflict with the Constitution without minimum consent. The second reason was substantive, namely that a number of lawyers considered that they were disproportionately affected by the decision to reduce tariffs in the case of free legal aid and in the case of representation under official duty. In these two areas, it has turned out that a number of lawyers live off of it, which was their main source of livelihood, and they have apparently reacted so strongly to this decision that in this part of the tariffs they have so drastically reduced. In particular, not to take account of the fact, or to the extent that such a reduction is already taking place, it should also be followed by the appropriate counterweight that I have already discussed before the courts, and this is in the compulsory representation of lawyers before the courts. There is nothing disputed or unknown about these reasons. These reasons are clear, the Chamber of Public Prosecutions has presented them publicly and are also based on the minutes mentioned. I must point out that, as regards the question of waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court, whether it is indeed an excessive intervention in the constitutional position of a lawyer, the situation in the opinion of the Ministry, and I repeat this, is such that it does not take into account the fact that it is a free profession by lawyers and that it is therefore necessary to find a more appropriate model, in which the Chamber of Counsel will have a certain but not dominant, but not decisive impact on the setting of legal tariffs. And in our opinion, it is the model that ensures this, which is regulated by the amendment of the Law on Lawyers. I imagine that, if this novel had been implemented, this process would have been carried out by focusing first on the question of the structure of this model. Today it has already been mentioned, and I have already confirmed that I believe that this is a fully considered relatively good model of the legal tariff as such. Because he's tying the lawyer's prize to his procedural activities and his efforts. First, either for an early out-of-court settlement of a dispute where there is a possibility of something, arbitration, mediation, negotiation. Or, secondly, where the lawyer is very active in the course of the proceedings without any interest in ever-new transfers and the determination of the main proceedings, without any interest to the ever-new investment of the preparatory applications, which then always requires the submission of a counter-party requiring a deadline for reply and, of course, prolonging the judicial proceedings. As seen through this structure, this legal tariff certainly cannot be disputed, but when we look at individual cases, and here all this debate, which has somehow stirred up around the consideration of this new law, has also made a positive contribution. For now we have all begun to deal very specifically with the question of what these tariffs really are. How much does a lawyer actually make? What reward is there for a single service? But as we look at this data, more and more we come to the realization that lawyers have gained huge profits from this new legal rate. And in some cases there are so disproportionate increases that it was necessary to intervene with the amendment of the law. I agree that, from a legal point of view, it would be more appropriate for the issue of the level of lawyers' awards to be dealt with in public procurement procedures in the Law on Lawyers. This would be more appropriate from a systemic point of view. We were literally forced to link this to the amendment of the Law on Lawyering, which, I would call it, is more of an organic character, a law that regulates the fundamental issues of the lawyer, the position, the rights, the responsibilities of the lawyers. But here we were threatened by what we are now showing as unconstitutional consequences. We were at risk of so much pressure on public finances, on the budgets of ministries that it was necessary to take advantage of this procedure, which had already been opened. This issue arose after the government had already tabled a proposal for a novel in cross-cutting coordination. We were not aware of this issue before, and only when the State, the audit committee, warned us about this, found that the fastest possible procedure was to address this issue by joining the amendment of the Law on Lawyerry. I believe that the former Minister did not know that this was such a big difference either, and I believe that this has also occurred in connection with the fact that we have transferred German tariffs slightly uncritically to the Slovenian legal order because we have written them down in some way. And now, of course, these comparisons that come in day-to-day reveal problems and are likely to reveal some others. Especially when it comes to the issue of lawyer awards in legacy proceedings. Each of us, by the nature of the matter, will be a party in the legacy process, an heir by someone and here, for example, a rise in legal fees is probably not the happiest, but something will happen. But, I repeat, the main goal pursued by the Government with the amendment of the law, which is now here in the judgement whether to go to a referendum or not, was to patch up those most in the sky with absorbing holes, errors, flaws, voids. And nothing but that. There are no other motives behind it, no lobbying arrangements, no plans to raise legal tariffs and everything else that is being tried in the debates now as an obvious. Once again, I firmly deny it. Today, there was nothing to say about the fact that one of the reasons why this law went into an emergency procedure was that another legal void had been discovered in this law, and it was also to the detriment of those represented by lawyers, to the detriment of people, clients, lawyers. And this is that because of the different insurance arrangements, the compensation liability of lawyers for the damage they cause because of their bad, sloppy work, that this issue is now settled in such a way that there is a legal void and that lawyers today, too, are not obliged to have this insurance. And this will take a few months. This was one of the reasons why we wanted this insurance to be set up quickly, following an emergency procedure, because if there is no such insurance, if the lawyer harms someone and if the damage is great, and with regard to the cases that lawyers take over, this could happen. And given the number of lawyers in Slovenia, mathematically speaking, the probability is even greater, then of course it is essential that the law settles this issue. And this novel deals with this issue. It was also mentioned in the debates that the Ombudsman should have pointed out for years that the disciplinary regime concerning lawyers does not function as it should. That's right. We were aware of that at the Ministry. When we had a conversation with the Ombudsman this year when we considered her annual report on justice, we also addressed this issue. At the meeting with the Ombudsman, we agreed that the Ministry would include its comments in the first amendment of the Law on Lawyers. And that's why in the new law we rearranged this chapter on disciplinary responsibility. I would like to point out, once the text has been prepared, that text has been forwarded to the Ombudsman's opinion on the explicit question whether such an arrangement seems appropriate to her. And the answer is, "Yes." What, then, is this major change? The change is that it is not only up to the Disciplinary Prosecutor whether a disciplinary procedure will be instituted or not, but because of public interest, it is now given to the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court. So, in this area too, the Ombudsman is a minister of public interest. I think it is right to look at these changes and the role of the guardians of public interest in full and not torn out, and not only on the issue of legal tariffs. There's something else I have to say. Some of the hints came about phone contacts between me and the president of the Bar. Of course, I have them, not just with him, I have them with the President of the Supreme Court, I have them with the Attorney General, I have them with all the actors in the judiciary, because it is, of course, the Ministry of Justice's duty to cooperate with these actors because the Ministry has legal powers in relation to these judicial systems. It's nothing unusual. It would be unusual if you did not have these phone calls and also personal meetings and visits. In that case, one might wonder what this minister is doing. It was said that irreparable counter-constitutional consequences would arise in relation to the representation of lawyers and the defence of official duties. Somehow that's how I understood it, maybe I misunderstood it, like it was some hypothetical situation. See what I'm afraid of as Minister right now? I am afraid that our country will find itself in a situation where, on the one hand, we will not have formal levers to ensure compliance with the constitutional provision on compulsory formal defence. On the other hand, when we have specific cases coming to court on a daily basis, every hour the Slovenian courts deal with new and new criminal cases, which usually start in the on-call investigation service. And at this earliest stage of the proceedings, when the judge decides whether or not to order them, and for what reasons he will order them, it is of course crucial that he be able to do so, so that he can order a detention against someone whose judge considers it dangerous to repeat the crime, that it is dangerous that the crime that he has committed will conclude that it is dangerous for him to attempt to influence the witnesses and the like - without it being a minimum legal certainty in that country. And we all have this security, all of us citizens are assured in the constitution. This is the safety of our lives, so this is our physical security and this is the safety of our property. In several decisions, the Constitutional Court explicitly linked this security issue to criminal proceedings and also to the Institute of Defence, the compulsory defence, in several decisions, which is normal, since the Constitutional Court, in general, when dealing with cases coming from a regular court, deals with those relating to constitutional complaints. These, however, are mainly related to criminal proceedings. We've got a lot of court practice here. It will not be difficult for the Constitutional Court to assess the unconstitutional consequences. Indeed, in its initial responses to this situation, the Bar Association wanted to have complete autonomy in setting tariffs. And that also comes out of the record. That was the lawyer's wish. The Ministry of Justice considered that such an arrangement would not be in the public interest. That is why this solution, which was proposed by the Chamber, has not been accepted. The compromise proposal of the Chamber was to protect this public interest only in matters where the State pays lawyers; therefore, free legal aid, compulsory formal defence. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, this would not be appropriate either. We felt that this public interest must be protected in its entirety, even in the relations that are, I will say, entirely private in nature when someone turns to a lawyer only for legal advice on his personal legal problem. And this model, this solution is established in the novelty of the law. In our view, this is also appropriate from a comparative point of view. Today it has been mentioned how this issue has been settled in different countries and let me, for example, give you a few examples. They have prepared a review of how this issue is regulated in European countries. Today we have heard Germany, Austria - regulation; Italy - minister; Czech Republic - minister; Slovakia also, of course, has a certain role in these cases either as a proponent or as a mandatory opinion. Then there are a number of countries, from France, Spain, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Estonia and so on, where there is no regulation at all. You have, not only a wider Europe, in fact two models of legal tariffs: one model is that which Slovenia has, but one model is that there is no tariff at all and is completely allowed to the lawyer and the client to agree on the price. When this so-called Sturm novel of the law was being prepared, and when lawyers discussed what the tariff should be, in Slovenia a number of lawyers considered and published professional discussions in professional literature in order to suggest that in Slovenia there would be no system of tariffs. What we've got now with legal tariffs is a mixed system. On the one hand, we have a tariff for all services, but on the other hand, we have the right to invite lawyers and customers to freely agree on the prize. While, and this is interesting, the limit is only in cases where it is a matter of property law, i.e. when the lawyer's service is linked to, say, a sum of money that he will try to reach for the client, in which case he may agree to receive a 15% prize in the amount of this claim. In other matters where there is no conflict of property, there is no limit at all and any amount can be agreed upon. The essence of these legal tariffs is therefore not so much that people have guaranteed and know in advance how much they will pay their lawyer - not because, according to my available information, lawyers are increasingly and more using that other solution, i.e. a free agreement with the client. But this tariff is important in one aspect - it is important in terms of what a lawyer's award means in terms of reimbursement of costs in court proceedings. Here, this tariff is important. And so if anyone wins in justice, the opposite party is obliged to repay him all his righteous expenses. All its fair costs are, of course, also the costs of representation by a lawyer. However, it will only be reimbursed as much as the tariff does, and not more. So if the lawyer and his client have agreed on more, it's essentially a risk taken by the client. I think it is right that these things be clarified when they are being operated on by arguments about high, low tariffs more or less favourable to people, about how to protect a small person and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to warn you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u122	What are you going to talk about, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u123	On a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u124	Just tell me sooner, I'll know.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u125	I'll tell you first, and then I'll move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u126	Because, you know, you have the option of replica and procedural. I need to know because there's no third option, and be nice, tell me otherwise you can't talk if I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u127	Mr Vice-President, I have made myself quite clear - I will talk about the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u129	I will also tell Mrs Pacan for the third time in these 20 seconds that I will talk about the procedural proposal. For the discussion, the Coalition presented the material and the Government, or the Minister announced in the introduction that it agrees with the approach and also with the material. But it says something other than what the minister was talking about. This paper says that when the meeting of the Koper Bar was held, the main problem was that the tariff had been reduced by 66%. It's the same thing as getting paid for so much less at the Ministry. In this Chamber of Lawyers, it was proposed that a solution be adopted, namely, to apply the previous tariff and not the current tariff until new laws are adopted. And if I turn the sheet back when Minister Zalar was at the meeting of the Bar, he stressed that the bar is a more important sub-system of justice, and because of its unimaginable status, even the tariff, he deserves a recast. So, modernisation. This is already a commitment it makes and offers in reflection and possible adoption. In short, we are talking about the key objective or almost fundamental objective of this amendment or of this procedure, which you are proposing in the Constitutional Court's opinion, to intervene in the legal tariff. And in his debate, the minister now spoke for more than 24 minutes for more than 20 minutes only about the legal tariff. All I propose is that the Minister discusses the material that has been submitted on the positions adopted by the Government relating to this material and not some of its discussions that are not in line with what is stated in this paper and why the request for a referendum is sent to the Constitutional Court. That is all I want to point out is that we stick to ourselves and that the government also adheres to what is written in the material and that it has agreed in advance because it supports the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you know you've abused the rules of procedure twice. First, because you were talking about a procedural issue that isn't; and secondly, because you can't tell the Minister what he's going to talk about. The Minister spoke in each of his sentences about the problems that are the contents of this item on the agenda. And your objection in this direction was incorrect. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! First of all, I would like to recall, in response to several repeated allegations that the proposal by the Coalition that the National Assembly should call on the Constitutional Court to determine whether the possibility of deciding on a referendum on the law on lawyering may be a violation of the constitutional rights of voters to a referendum, which is the most democratic way of deciding in the existing political system. I would like to remind you that more than 54,000 voters before, I think, around 1994, it was said, 15 years ago, that a referendum was required on the return of forests to denationalising beneficiaries, including, in particular, those who, after some feudal legislation, had once become forest owners, and some legal person who received the forests later, but who had already paid them in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. So, there was nothing wrong at the time that 54,000 voters requested a referendum on a very public demand, in the public interest, today, when it comes to repealing this amendment of the Law on Lawyers, violating rights or reducing the possibility of access to free legal aid and access and representation by official duty, this is now a violation of the democratic right of 33 Members, or as much as they have already been signed by the referendum initiative. 33 signatures against 54,000 signatures. I would like to know whether this country's democracy is really being measured only in terms of whether they are signed under an initiative for a referendum by Members or by the people. I think that 54,000 signatures are far greater than 33 Members. The second thing I would like to say is that the Constitutional Court, although we have already heard this several times today, has already decided several times, not directly, but indirectly, that the defence is an activity which has an important position in the judiciary, which has a special position in the judiciary and even is dealt with by the constitution together with the notary service. Interestingly, when it comes to notaries who are public servants, everything is fine, while it is about lawyers who are free professions, but have special importance within the framework of justice, then it is necessary that the law, despite the fact that in the vast majority of European countries, does not provide for legal tariffs, but in Slovenia, we, in the National Assembly, have to decide on completely professional issues, how much a profession should earn or not earn in the performance of its services. However, I think that the question at today's session is really important whether it is right to ask whether representation under official responsibility and free legal aid will go to the discretion of voters who do not understand and will not know what the point is in fact - because given how we are listening continuously, the essence of this law is to set a legal tariff, but it is only going to be made into a much more competent decision-making and, in particular, a negotiation that is only right in a democratic society - but of course that is not important. And one more thing. I had just listened to two diametrically opposed claims: the Minister was only talking all the time about the fact that the legal rate was raised by the adoption of the law on legal tariffs, while in Koper, the bar, they found that the legal rate had been reduced by 66%. Everything shows we only hear what we want to hear. The Minister also spoke of an increase in the legal rate, since the manner in which the tariff was fixed is completely different from it, and said that the proportion of the value of the case for which the lawyer represents a party had been substantially reduced before the legal fees for free legal aid and for compulsory representation on the basis of an official duty were substantially reduced. It is said that part of the legal tariff has fallen considerably and it has also been said that some lawyers, in fact, as a source of survival, have only an official representation and free legal aid, that they are paid from the State and therefore their material position is at risk and affected by 66% of the reduction in this part of the legal tariff. And lastly, I would like to say something that, for the last time in one newspaper comment, was very well written about how our opposition, and specifically the SDS Group of Members, should not resent me, because I will use the right address again, namely, that you keep repeating only those parts of some claims or some arguments that are convenient to you, the other part that is written even in the same sentence, which is simply an overexamine. That is why I would like to read to you what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly wrote in its opinion on the initiative or proposal for a referendum. The legal and legal service has written on the third page as follows: "For the regulation of the bar in the Law on Lawyers B", this is the Smurf Act, "some concerns of the constitutional nature have also been raised by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyerry of 2008." And then what you're saying without this first sentence is, "but until the Constitutional Court's decision in that constitutionality assessment initiative, it cannot be considered that the legal system of the Law on Lawyerry B is unconstitutional." Here. As long as the Constitutional Court does not judge, we cannot say that any law, any act, is unconstitutional, the Constitutional Court is the one to judge. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is certainly not the one who says what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional. Nor can the National Assembly say this, and therefore we propose that this initiative for the referendum should go first to the Constitutional Court, which will decide whether this referendum would be established or not. And the second thing I would like to say is to talk about the fact that this referendum or that the initiative that lawyers have given to the Constitutional Court - I will repeat what we have heard twice before the Minister - that lawyers have given the initiative only with regard to the Law on Lawyerry, while you are giving or giving the Constitutional Court a broader opinion on the matter, the matter of representation under official responsibility and the matter of free legal assistance, which is constitutionally provided to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, when they need such free assistance or when it comes to cases as we have heard earlier in the case in Krske, in Nova Gorica, as is likely to be more and more in Slovenia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. You said a small group of people were supposed to blackmail, and most of them weren't supposed to withdraw from the free legal aid system. That's an impossibility. Not all lawyers are on the list for free legal aid and legal representation, but only some. The National Assembly, in fact, we are obliged to react and not put citizens and citizens in a worse social and legal position if they were not available to lawyers and, of course, we could not provide them ourselves. Our concern is mainly for a small man who cannot afford expensive lawyers with large sums of money. Second. It is clear that by submitting a constitutional assessment request to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, it is intended to prevent this from being decided at the same time as the elections to the European Parliament. This is, in my opinion, just one way or another a farce, and this is the story you want to stage on election day and use it for the elections themselves, and thus to preserve something small in life, how much longer you are in life as a political party. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative clearly states that the Constitutional Court must judge the request of the National Assembly within 30 days. If the Constitutional Court judges within 30 days and may decide that the National Assembly does not correctly consider the unconstitutional consequences of the referendum, the referendum may still be held together with the elections to the European Parliament. I believe and believe that all the smart people in the National Assembly are very clear. The fact is, we've been talking all afternoon about whether it was an egg or a chicken, because what you're playing is just for the public and not because you'd be up to anything, in this case, until the law on lawyering. I am confident that the Constitutional Court will respond professionally and that we will respect whatever the Constitutional Court adopts. I hope that you will respect this, too, because I remember in my previous mandate, when I was able to follow your leadership of this country through television and the media, that you were completely indifferent and without connection, as the Court of Auditors said, it was even less important to you, as the Kosovo Commission said. In short, when you think about it, then it's the respect for the rules, the laws, maybe, but it's not, depending on when you're doing anything for your own good. Of course, I will support the fact that we are going to the Constitutional Court in the belief that this will end and that we will not cause those who need legal support and assistance to be able to continue for at least half a year or even a year without the possibility of getting a free lawyer. I hope that everyone on this page thinks so honestly, which I very much doubt about your side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would rather expect to talk more today about the report itself on the request for a legislative referendum on the law amending and supplementing the law on lawyers and the proposed decision itself, than only on lawyers, their tariffs, their prices, and, last but not least, on this mutual, already standard-known charge. It is primarily about what would be more necessary to discuss the possible emergence of anti-constitutional consequences, the consequences of which, in what way, if they were created, how else would they be prevented, but not by the way that constitutional rights, by law, are trampled on by 30 Members. That's one thing. It's about lawyers themselves today - how much? - six hours of speech. Last but not least, I am surprised that the coalition, especially the Social Democrats and the DeSUS, are taking such a stand for the Lords of Lawyers. Someone even said that my heart mated when I heard they were lawyers who couldn't survive. And if it weren't for these cases, there would be free legal aid so that we wouldn't be able to survive. Well, I'd really like to meet a lawyer like that. But we all know here, as well as you in the coalition, that it is a typical blackmail of a particular professional group that can afford such a precedent that it has failed the foundations of the political system and constitutional arrangements even in the few days. But it's a professional group that, after some not-so-old research into the reputation and popularity and appreciation of professions, I tell you, took the place right on the tail. We politicians were in front of them, and we were on our tails. To be able to afford, I don't know how many, what thousands of these lawyers, to blackmail the political system of some European country with tariffs, so that they don't carry out cases of "free" legal aid - under the terms of free - are poorly paid free legal aid to choose which cases they will take, of course, clearly, we know which: cooperation with large businesses, with tycoons, with corrupt policies, with legal advice, with money laundering in some way - we read all this in the daily newspaper nonstop, it's no news. That, the less paid job, no, they're gonna refuse it, because they can't survive it! And now we're wasting time on their prices, on their tariffs. Of course, there is now one interpretation here on the right, if we help a certain class of socially disadvantaged people; we are not discussing how to force these somewhat socially disadvantaged lawyers by other means to take on such cases as are less paid. We have said this several times in the Slovenian National Party. We have a weapon because we're a legislative body: let's take the law by quick procedure - if you don't take it, you lose your lawyer's license! "Ciao, ragazzi! It's over!" And such blackmail, please, is unprecedented, and it is precisely the lawyers most socially threatened today! I would rather expect the coalition partners, of course the Social Democrats, to focus primarily on defending those socially endangered groups, which, lastly, also represented the "one gros" of their electoral body, to which they addressed themselves before the elections and promised. This is primarily a violation of human rights, with the Constitution of certain human rights to work, for example, to a healthy environment - as I have mentioned this once before. To fight! Or, for example, DeSUS, if you are fighting to violate the constitutional rights of pensioners; all these laws are contrary to the Constitution. In Slovenia we have a bunch of laws that have unconstitutional consequences, but we do not deal with them, but we deal with lawyers because they are the most socially threatened layer in this country. Tell me if that's not funny. That's sad! But of course everyone has their own reasons and vice versa. It is now necessary to ask why lawyers can trigger such an earthquake that the whole country is slowing down due to their tariffs. Well, please, gentlemen, let's be serious! Lawyers are going to be jamming the state's political system here, making so much "sweep" and spending so much money on infertile debates! No, that's the way, please. I hope we don't work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the beginning, I have to find that this session reminds me of the interpretation, even of the time available to Mr Minister, that is what it looks like. Well, this morning, when I listened to a meeting of the Committee of the Mother Labour, one of the Members said exactly: "The amendment only corrects the shortcomings of the current law, it is about providing lawyers for free legal aid and representation under official responsibility." And this statement was pure manipulation. You know exactly that Sturm's law allows free legal aid, and you're always trying to show it as if the previous law doesn't allow it. By amending the bill of coalitions, so we are talking about Social Democrats, Reals, LDS and DeSUS, it allows lawyers to pay or set their own legal fees through the Chamber. Yeah, who wouldn't want that? It's the perfect law. It is heard that lawyers threaten that if they do not, they will not provide the legal aid they have to provide under law. And you, the coalition, are talking again about Social Democrats, really, LDS, DesUS, you've taken the side of the stronger. You have stood up for a narrow lobby and not for the weak, i.e. citizens and citizens, who will therefore pay higher tariffs. The decision on the level of tariffs is again in the hands of lawyers who - without worry and we all know it - know well, very well to take care of themselves. The fares will rise, not necessarily right now, but one day for sure. And that's probably a lot. The Minister said he was afraid of what would happen if lawyers made their announcement two months ago and systematically refused to represent people in free legal aid procedures. Yeah, well, that's unacceptable for a minister to say a sentence like that! This is a pure blackmail of the lawyers of the minister and those who have also adopted this law, which was adopted in 2008. You know that all lawyers are not as financially successful as those close to this circle of coalition. I know they don't even work with this free legal aid because they don't have to. But there are many who like to offer free legal aid. Why? Because the country is a regular and relatively good mercenary. And there's something else to know that citizens and citizens probably don't think that lawyers who offer free legal aid deserve anything. That's what we taxpayers pay for. In 2008, the country paid 2.8 million euros in 12,000 cases. And these aren't such small numbers. So, also, those who represented free of charge have made good money. Today I am here from the very beginning, and I must say that I have heard a great deal of deception, and I must say that you have not convinced me or that you cannot convince me. That's why I'm saying what we're here for today. You know what we want? As the opposition, all we want is for voters and voters in the referendum to decide whether or not they agree to do so, and that is all. Here, however, he tries to defend himself at all odds as to how this novel is good and beneficial for citizens and citizens. Then what are we afraid of? Let us give them the opportunity to decide whether they agree to do so or not! Well, I think you're afraid of the consequences, because before the elections, none of the coalition parties announced that one of the first things you're going to change is that you're going to allow lawyers to pay higher fees, and I'm sure the citizens won't forgive you. Before that, the minister said he bit on a political sour apple. Yeah, he did bite into a political sour apple, but it's obviously worth it, or we wouldn't bite into that sour apple. And finally, why don't you want a referendum: because you don't have any arguments, but you have a majority in the National Assembly, but the human voice - I'm sure - would easily and surely outvote it. And that's why you fight at every turn to keep the referendum from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Fishy Janez has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr. Secretary-General. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u140	Mr. Fishich has the floor, please let him speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the House. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are appalled at how it has joined in amending the law on legal representation. There was no need for rapid change. I don't know, and I don't know the case that some law firm has been failing lately. Nor does he feel today's crisis. As a result, there is more to it and more to it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we really wonder why we have changed the system, which has made it more accessible to people with lower incomes, a system that has offered more and better for citizens and citizens. Such a solution as you have now adopted, respectable, in the field of lawyering cannot be expected to be stimulated by lawyers as Commissioners for the speedy end of proceedings. It should be added that after the adoption of the novel, lawyers are not paid flatly for one instance, but are paid according to the specification of the acts committed. In addition to the defendant, her lawyer will not, therefore, again have the slightest interest in allowing the completion of the proceedings after one oral hearing. If we were able to maintain the honor of honoring lawyers on a flat-rate basis and thereby withdraw the incentive to delay, we would thus remove one of the main obstacles to speeding up matters. From our point of view, it is pointless that the rules on compensation encourage lawyers to delay proceedings. With appropriate changes in the field of legal tariffs, notary tariffs, networks of notary services, with special service and an appropriate basis for the execution of other legal and accompanying services, it is possible to ensure more efficient judicial work and easier and cheaper access by the parties to the courts. I recommend that the possibility of changing fees and legal tariffs be explored in such a way as to further stimulate the swift and peaceful resolution of disputes. We will not support the proposed decision in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. It is right that citizens be declared in a referendum as the institution of the highest degree of democracy on such a solution to the law on legal representation. I see no dispute in this, but the disputed attempt to limit this right seems to me. More than that, I find it more controversial that the government's actions are eroding the pressures of a wealthy and influential lobby. In these times of crisis and in general, we cannot and cannot afford even the slightest possibility of further enriching the richest layers at the expense of the other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The word is Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A nice hello again. I see that the legal topic is a difficult topic, and it is also evident today after this debate that some stories are very difficult to understand or imagine, with me at the head, too simple and simple. Of course, I am not sure that this is such a fateful question that mature and responsible policy could not solve without a referendum, because if you want any question that people would certainly still like and would certainly bring a positive result to the referendum, let's say that we could also ask whether Members for such a debate and debate as we have today deserve a higher or lower salary; or perhaps that tomorrow even the sun comes up and something important. It is essential that responsible policy is not just that people will like it every moment, but that it does what it thinks is right. If 12,000 users have problems in court for free legal services, then it is the task of the Minister and the Ministry to amend and correct the law. If, in the area of public procurement from the previous cost of the country there, we have come to services that go close to EUR 200,000, then there is obviously something wrong in this story and it needs to be regulated and mitigated in favour of the country and the budget. Professor Šturm's previous law has been followed since the beginning by several different opinions and from these also submitted constitutional complaints. By what we are doing today, we respect only the Constitutional Court, which we fully trust, whether the matter is constitutional or not, to avoid even greater problems and problems later. However, if our intention was to prevent a referendum, then the procedure would be carried out differently, and the Constitutional Court will decide within a 30-day period and time to prepare for the referendum, to collect political points, in order to propose another 3.4 other referendums, will be more than enough. At this point, however, we have been faced with the fact that the poorest who are losing their jobs - and certainly many of them need legal help to ensure that they have it, that such an anomaly as happened in the case of Elan, when individual lawyers served on the basis of the law that you have adopted, you think it is good that 700,000, 800,000 euros, and people on the road have gone; please forgive me, if anything is going on, things need to be adjusted and corrected. And that's all we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Lois Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will also point out that today's debate is similar to that of one week ago when the debate was held in the National Assembly on the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior. And we are already in one week of this debate for the second time, when we have facts on the one hand, verifiable facts, when the government, the minister, the coalition lists credible data, and when we have so much deception on the other hand, so much cheap populism, so much deception, even lies. And this, I am sure, is not the last time that this is just the way that will be present further because it wants to show a certain thing to people the way that the proponents imagine. And that's why it has to be done so many times and so many times that it's possible to hold on. I am convinced that it is difficult for an ordinary person who listens to these discussions to judge who is right, especially when it comes to difficult professional questions, which is certainly the legal profession. And people find it hard to judge who's right, so they're more likely to succumb to cheap populism than they are to facts. But if I would like to illustrate this debate very simply, it is so that the government claims, ministers and coalition, that it is one and one two. After Grims is one and one can be two, three, five, ten, one hundred or one million, depending on the goal and purpose that a colleague sets for himself. And that is why it is so difficult to follow the debate, so difficult with arguments to match such estimates, such claims. On the other hand, they are consciously unaware of and disregard the facts that the Government, which the Minister emphasises, is simply because the objective is completely different. Also from today's debate is a very ghastly observation, including by counterpart Grims, that the government, the minister, is not a small man. That the government and the minister, which we are now taking to a small person, have been told many times today, has been stressed that there can be counter-constitutional consequences that will have a direct impact on a small person due to the inability to afford a lawyer, because there will be no free legal aid or no representation under official responsibility. But it's not a stand-up for a little man. I'm more certain that for a small man and for the economy he's not Mr Grimes. Otherwise, I would not be so pleased to repeat, and I would be happy to say every increased percentage of the unemployment that virtually counts every new unemployed person in this crisis with the pleasure of telling what this government has done. The same is true of the decline or decline in social product. That is why it is difficult to have a constructive, serious debate here, and that is why, in the criticism given to the President of Parliament, it is also right to commend him. I am sure he has taken too much time to discuss today. We could only tell ourselves with a brief picture of what the purpose is, and on the other hand what the object of the opposition is, not that we are discussing for eight hours a matter that, I am sure, has been wanted by many on the opposition's side in a double-digit amount of time. However, the result would be exactly the same. It is therefore necessary for such a proposal to be adopted, as proposed today, and for the Constitutional Court to decide on a case for which only the Constitutional Court is competent and professionally qualified and certainly not the voice of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! It is not the first time that we are discussing the eligibility and legality of the call for an ex-legislative referendum. And if it is possible to refer to legal provisions, it is equally justified and legally also a requirement to assess the constitutionality of this requirement for a referendum. Under Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, this right can also be exercised. I therefore find this debate very clear in this case, which can also be heard in the context of a highly politically oriented debate directed against a professional group. What really bothers me in these discussions is that we take the dignity of a profession. I am convinced that everyone who does his job well deserves recognition for the good work done and for that work also deserves payment. It is true that we are paid differently for our work, but at the same time it must be said that there is great manipulation and great deception when the Constitution is often heard in the National Assembly that the right to work is guaranteed by the Constitution. That's not true. Unfortunately, the Constitution does not guarantee this, but Article 49 of the Constitution only speaks of freedom of work. And he says this: freedom of work is guaranteed, every free choice of employment is available to everyone under the same conditions, every job is prohibited. And then I could give you five more articles that touch on work rights in different ways. So much for what was once written in an act as a right to work in another country. And now to the law that we are talking about and which I believe has been politically very carefully thought out, at which point the request will be made, in connection with what will be the request for a referendum and why it is precisely a focus on the legal tariffs that are not at all the subject of this law that we are discussing. This is all very carefully thought out and targeted because we are in a situation where people feel even more threatened and insecure and are significantly more sensitive to all financial issues. This is not the first time and probably not the last time the opposition has exploited such a situation. What is particularly disturbing to me in these debates is that the debates on alignment are so manipulative that a person who has a document before him can prove, when reading this document, how the message has been modified by the extractive text. A typical case is a quote from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, when it was said, "it cannot be argued that the postponement or rejection of the amendment of the law at the referendum at this time would have counter-constitutional consequences." And it was so complicated that it was connected to it, as if the Legal and Legal Service had said that this novel had no possibility to prove to it that it was unconstitutional. I think it's completely irresponsible. And from the candidates of the referendum, I would expect them to try to find real and solid arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u149	Hello, everyone here, especially Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State! They say the attack is the best defense. This is also true in the case of today's debate of fellow Members who today have the obvious sense and duty to defend all past acts and the legislation adopted in the National Assembly in the field of justice, which was adopted in the mandate of the former Minister of Justice. Of course, it is also extremely populist today to say, for example, in Dolenjska or White Krajina, that the Government has accepted a beautiful amendment, even though the fact and reality that adopted in the 2009 rebalancing is sufficient and just as necessary, and it is not true that everything has turned out to be rejected by the Government. That's not true. This is also the case with the New Town Waste Management Centre, which was said to have been rejected in this government. However, the fact is that it was precisely the opposition Members who rejected this rebalancing, including this project. Some here somehow forget that the system of attacks is also a way to redirect thinking elsewhere, away from the essence, from the essence of today's debate that the amendment of the law on lawyers, as Mr Minister has pointed out several times today, does not protect lawyers, but protects citizens. Yeah, we heard it right, let me say it again, protecting the citizens! Today, equality before the law and equality in human rights have been particularly exposed. I believe that we all agree with this, although I must agree with today's debate on some and a clear explanation by Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister. There were many contradictions between some of those who were already in the ruling coalition six months ago, and I believe they understand us very well, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know here that the initiative to convene a legislative referendum may also be one of the actions of the former two ruling parties, so that all citizens do not feel that a new law on legal representation has been adopted, particularly in order to protect citizens. It also actually protects them, providing them with legal protection in the legal state of the Republic of Slovenia. I would really be very happy if the candidates of the referendum could change their minds and decide that instead of the proposed referendum, each euro - no matter what the euro - I am afraid that the millions of euros that today would be necessary for the economy and citizens of difficult times - would rather be earmarked to buy additional aid packages for those who are now in need of assistance. Today, there was also talk of storms. However, I must say that the weather forecast for the upcoming Easter holidays is favourable. Solar weather is predicted. From today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I expect Members and Members to take a decision in a proper, dignified and credible manner that will benefit and assist all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. To provide legal aid and legal certainty for all, whether they are materially or slightly less wealthy or even poor. This assistance should be when necessary, since no one among us has anything special, although there has been a talk today, all citizens of the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia have the right to be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Blackach, I didn't see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Take a look at your respectable colleagues and colleagues, we have already proposed several times today that we should get the information that is essential, were already essential in the decision-making process of the marriage, but unfortunately we did not get it, but today I think that this data is essential if we are to make a competent decision on this matter that we have on the agenda today. Unfortunately, there is no way we can get to this information. The law in force, so-called Sturm's Law, provides that the lawyer shall decide whether he will be included in the list of lawyers or lawyers representing the parties on official duty or providing free legal assistance services. These lists of lawyers shall be maintained by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, which shall be referred to the courts. It is essential for today's decision to obtain a specific list of entries and a specific list of extracts from these lists. If we do not have this list today, then we will make up our minds, because the basis of what you and the current ruling coalition and the minister are advocating is that legal certainty is that offering free legal aid and representation under official responsibility is impossible because there are no lawyers on these lists. For as long as he is alone, such legal certainty is not threatened. That's the first part. Part two. It is not true that lawyers are not obliged to protect themselves against liability. The law in force, Sturm's law states that a lawyer is obliged before entering a lawyer's register to enter into a professional liability insurance policy for the smallest insured sum of two hundred and fifty thousand euros for each individual insurance case and to present evidence to the lawyer's chamber. That's how these things exist. Third case, procedures for the revision of public contracts. It was said that the problem was that tariffs had increased. If we do not have a specific list after 1 January this year in concrete procedures, when and in which procedure the State Audit Commission approved, because the contracting authority has breached the law, we cannot make a competent decision on these costs. For this reason, I propose, Mr President, that you now put to the vote a procedural proposal to order that the Minister of Justice or the Government, before we conclude the debate on this matter and before we decide, provide the National Council with a list of all those who have been removed in this directory of lawyers for the provision of free legal assistance and the provision of representation on official duty during the period following the entry into force of the Smurf Act and from this list, and to provide these Councils with a list of all those cases where it has been decided to repay the audit proceedings before the State Audit Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Blacky. This was not a procedural proposal and I will not put it to the vote. Part of your proposal has already been presented in previous discussions. As for the specific list, the Minister replied to it, because of me, if he wants to get his word, he will answer again. He told you that he could not provide the information provided to him by the Bar and that he could not give us any other information he had. With regard to insurance and audits, I believe that there is a double obligation, Mr Chernač, for those who have proposed a referendum to have arguments and data and for those who felt that before the referendum decision, the Constitutional Court should assess the appropriateness of the referendum. And to blame now on those we have suggested that the Constitutional Court should judge, and you do not have the appropriate evidence for your proposals, I do not think that is sufficiently correct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u153	Look, Mr President, the Minister said he didn't have those lists. He said: "If you believe that this documentation has to be supplemented by a list of those who stand out, we will ask the Bar or Courts to do so because the notices are sent to the courts and not to the Ministry." It's interesting the Minister doesn't know that. The Minister in charge of this area, who warns, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u154	Mr Chernač, this is a debate, this is no longer a procedural issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u155	I justify my procedural proposal, which has been made correctly, and I ask you to put it to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u156	I can't put your proposal to the vote. If Mr. Secretary wants a word, he'll get one.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u157	Because you were talking about that question being answered by the Minister, Mr Minister did not give an answer, he said that he had no information, that the Chamber of Lawyers and the procedures before the audit committee had not been discussed by us, but by Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u158	Mr. Chernač, you are abusing the proper conduct of the session because you do not accept the fact that you are wronging the rules of procedure again. And if the minister wants to, he can get a word whenever he wants. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Mr. Secretary has the floor. I gave the minister my word. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u159	Look, all I can do is repeat what I said today. I'm aware of the documentation that you have in your possession, and I don't have any other. This documentation was the basis for the reaction of the Ministry and later the Government and later the National Assembly to regulate this issue. In the meantime, I was able to reach an agreement that lawyers would not make these withdrawals by refusing to take up representation under official duty and by refusing representation in matters of free legal aid. If a question is raised as to the specific danger posed to the emergence of the unconstitutional consequences in the context of the decision, if this assembly so decides, at the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will be able to obtain all this information within the framework of the finding procedure, if the Court of Justice, of course, considers that this is necessary. With regard to the information on the procedures before the State Audit Commission, I have the documentation, as you do. It shows how many procedures this Commission has been working on in 2008 and from which it is able to conclude on the scope of cases where the State will have to reimburse the costs of representing the lawyers of those parties who have succeeded with the audit requests. It is only a matter of demonstrating likelihood based on past results and looking into the files of the State Audit Commission, of course, the Minister of Justice does not have any powers in this regard. With regard to ensuring the liability of lawyers, I repeat: there has been a legal void due to the transition to a completely different way of ensuring liability. Since the Bar Association had a collective insurance agreement, it is now being transferred to an individual, but in the meantime there has been a six-month period when the law does not require lawyers to do so, and this is a completely real, concrete threat to those represented by lawyers. Because lawyers are also liable for damages if they fail to do their work in the way that they are required by the rules of the legal profession. And all the explanations in this regard are found in the works of the National Assembly, which this assembly has already discussed and which are why it later adopted this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to remind you that it is precisely this entry and exit of lawyers from the free legal aid list that you have also argued the difficult remedial consequences for the state and the citizens. And that is precisely why the request made by counterpart Cernač for these extracts to be obtained is justified. For only on the basis of this transition to the list and from the list can it really be determined whether the problem is indeed as Mr Minister says - because there is no data for this claim - or whether this claim is not the same and is just an imaginary argument. And I propose that you put the proposal of a colleague of Montenegro to the vote that the Minister shall, by the end of the discussion or before the vote, provide a list of the entry and exit of lawyers from the list of free legal aid. Without it all this debate is irrelevant, it is inconsistent, it is also, I would say, what you are always reading is essentially provoked and false. There's no argument. And if you are not in a position to deliver a quality document to the National Assembly or a court - you are a kind of chairman or a court of law that you represent at this time, then we can ask ourselves about the meaning of this intervention. I do not think that without obtaining this extract, it is even possible to decide whether this request is justified or not, because it is not possible to rely on this decision. No data were submitted. I think it is the responsibility of the Minister that if he wants us to discuss his proposal at all, he should submit these matters as well as the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, this was not a procedural proposal. Procedural proposals relate to the management of the meeting, to the procedures relating to the management of the meeting, not to the content of the debate and to the material. In addition, the Government is not the proposer of this point and is not obliged to give any material or anything like that. The materials were presented by both of the applicants and we are discussing the report and the decision presented by the parent working body. I have thus concluded this question and am no longer giving a procedural one, we are continuing the debate. Mr Silven Majhenič, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. The referendum is a constitutional right that cannot be challenged and must be respected. However, how many of these referendums will be held in the country depends on what kind of coalition is currently in Parliament and what kind of government is currently in place. The Law on Lawyers came into force in January, and because it did not correspond to the currently ruling coalition, we had to change it immediately. It is not a problem in bad or good marriage, the problem is which government has proposed it and which coalition has adopted it. You know, such games are boring for citizens of Slovenia and are unproductive for the country of Slovenia. In this way we do not save lawyers, economies and not banks, nor do we save poverty in this way. Let the power of arguments prevail and not a power argument. The referendum is not to blame for unilateral moves, but for the inability to negotiate, all of which is paid by a small man, a really small man who has to tear himself from his mouth every day to pay taxes and stupidities to politicians. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not support such reckless laws, we do not support unity and we do not care about how people live in our loving country. I can't believe what troubles our citizens, but no one listens to them. The power of the current and the power of the field also prevails. When people in one of the congregations fight for the existence of the forest also with a referendum, those who have the supremacy and power threaten them with death, violence - in short, unbelievable and unacceptable. We do not support such democracy in the Slovenian National Party. We have always been for the rule of law, and we will continue to do so in the future. We have always been for a smart deal that will be acceptable to the country, but this law, which is currently up to date for lawyers, is really not acceptable to anyone. The president of the Bar said he wasn't good enough for them, but they still support him. You know, it's an unprecedented nonsense when you're up for it, and you know it's not good for you. Let us be sober and united once, because we have been chosen to work for the benefit of all citizens, and forget about the left and right, and take Slovenia to better times, so that those who believed in us will be pleased with us even when they gave their voice to us in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, all present, who hold this long debate here! First, I'd like to remind you of a few facts. The fact that the reason for the consideration of the law on lawyering, i.e. the novelty, is not a change in tariffs, since the legal tariff is regulated by a law that does not change with this amendment is just one of the transfers, in fact one of the lies that is the basis for today's agenda. The fact that the risk of free legal aid has already arisen and that it does not appear until at the very moment when no lawyer is present in any of the district courts, is already on the list for free legal aid, is a fact and this danger has already occurred. It doesn't happen until everyone's gone. Even when it comes to the issue of compulsory defence, this danger has already arisen, it has already been given, and this danger exists in criminal matters of the most difficult nature. And there was another danger. Under the applicable law on legal tariffs, therefore, according to Sturm’s law, lawyers are given the opportunity to agree with the party on the amount of the payment, irrespective of the provisions of the tariff numbers. In property disputes, that could be 15% and so on. That's what this law allows. What are we meeting today? Now, I'm not going to talk about all the powerful manipulations and lies we've encountered, but I'm going to mention just a few of the colleagues who have been talking lately in the last hour. Earlier, a fellow Member who had built his entire discussion on a false assumption that the novelty was valid. He said this novel had such consequences, this novel this and this novel the third. This is Janez Fish from SLS. Not one point in his speech applies because this assumption does not apply. The novel has not been approved! It does not apply and it would be good if the person who signs the initiative for the constitutional referendum taught what it is. The other fellow Member uses his discussion contributions on the procedure to make demands for evidence. I have not read in my request for a constitutional referendum any evidence that the tariffs will increase and no evidence that the services of the novel are more expensive than, for example, the fourth page of the request for a constitutional referendum. There's no such thing, but we're dealing with it. So how am I supposed to understand all of this stuff that we're dealing with today - as already seen, as manipulating the public under difficult conditions, as something from German history would say "sturmundrang". This devil, of course, led to Blut und Boda. You know, it's a pretty bad thing. In short, to implement the strategy, as I mentioned a week ago - as bad as possible, the better for us. Or, if I paraphrase a beautiful Boudelaire song and a really bad Boudelaire song Omama, which comes to mind right now, I would paraphrase it so that I illustrate this strategy: It is necessary to lie constantly so that the coalition will finally feel the weight of the strategy that breaks its shoulders and pushes to the ground. Read this song sometime. What are the things in today's debates that we actually have to consider, which are the things that I consider to be manipulations, to be lies, really painful. If I recall only the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members, for example, it was an interesting statement as to how we are changing the legal rate. The law on legal tariffs remains in force and the novelty has only changed the tariff in relation to the revision of public contracts. Then why does it have to be for the public and I don't know who to lie to about it? Second of all, we're afraid for all the good that Storm's marriage brings. Yeah, that's right! But it's Smurf's marriage. What is it? Then who's afraid? The one who doesn't know anything or what? It's just a change I've already mentioned. But are you afraid, proposers, of the famous Storm Penal Code, where it is not possible to condemn juvenile offenders at all and where there are still a number of other mistakes. Are you afraid of any other consequences of such legislation? Would you be slowly afraid of this prominent legislator with whom our country was even in diplomatic relations because it has diplomatic relations with the Order of the Knights of Malta? What about the Chamber of Counsel, which, of course, needs to be deprived of public powers that it does not have? In fact, how should professions be compared if a person from a private service, who has a constitutional role and is constitutionally defined, says his position, starts a constitutional dispute, and then because of a few cases, he has to throw down all the ugly, looting the entire profession and so on, and then compare them with those employees in the private service, with public servants on the one hand, and with those who are officials? Next move. What about setting tariffs and the position of the lawyer in the system? In Germany, your Grimes could read hundreds of times in the explanations of the German constitution, that even the lawyers somehow consider it part of the constitutional system, but it is not defined in the constitution. And even in Austria, it's not defined in the constitution, but they're both continental systems, and there's a bunch of continental systems, by the way, in Europe, not just these two. In short, it is not only Germany that we need to learn about if we want to draw constitutional comparisons. That the National Assembly should decide in front of the public about the legal tariff. Yes, I am very jealous of fellow signatories who assess themselves to be able to set these prices. It's an attorney's fee. And I see the experts themselves in front of me for setting these prices. I've really finished, I've taken him more seriously for a while, but I've never had the ambition to set these prices, I could have someone at the Ministry, because after all, they're going to have to do it. And now not in the eyes of the public, because there is an arrangement, but not established, by which a constitutionally defined, judicial function, this is called the Bar Association as a representative of this function, to prepare something, to wait for the previous agreement of the Minister, who is responsible for the National Assembly - this is all wrong! And when a fellow Member speaks there, that in that country Parliament and the executive power determine this, and once again Parliament shall exercise executive power! Yeah, what about the government or the executive? What's the matter? Anyone want to look at a textbook, by the way? So, if he has time, maybe! The question was asked, "Yes, who have you already locked up?" There was a hero here, usually sitting there, and he started by putting someone in jail. I won't lock anyone up, I won't hunt anyone, and I won't lock him up. I believe that this was a forecast of a programming nature, what such a hero would do to support the request for the introduction of this legislative referendum. But the prosecution of serious crimes, or even the function of prosecution, directs the Supreme State Attorney's Office as far as it concerns the police as the authority that has to carry out operationally. Who's the Attorney General? Who's that? That's what I don't think you can hear. Then I'd like to say one more thing. Not only is this major violation of the bonton, as you might have accepted the impressions of a colleague from the other side, but actually quite something at the border, I will say, of the unlawful conduct; that two colleagues from the same profession are called just a "colleague" - how ugly this is! You know, I was taught by law professors that we used to call each other colleagues, and so did I. Those of you who are not colleagues, of course, will find this difficult to understand. And that the minister and some other of his colleagues who come from a school where they learn to be collegiates use something like this - this is really an unheard-of, actually a matter that needs to be exposed to the public and smiled, polluted! I felt only a comic note in the debate of the Member, who spoke about respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Last week was true, and also on the committees, proved respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that was fellow Member Jerovšek, that you would not think that I would not say who he was. Indeed, the question of who, in fact, the proposal to introduce a constitutional judgment is putting us in a position to defend the functioning of the system is a question for those who do not know. Let the Constitutional Court state, as one who has this right in this system, whether it is a matter to decide at the referendum or not. We didn't predict anything, we just assessed what the consequences might be. I've explained to some of them that I'm assessing that they're already on. To another question that's been asked here, who's afraid. Yeah, you're afraid, constitutional referendum candidates, because you're afraid there's going to be a feeling that the situation is a little different. But we only want one thing: that whoever has this right in the system, in the shortest possible time, should make its decision as to whether or not it is a matter of a referendum. Then we'll all know for sure. There is uncertainty here, but uncertainty is such a nature that I will be very happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozjej has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. After such a precise description of today's events, there is also a premeditated argument, of course it will be difficult for me to say something better. I, too, have been impressed in today's debates - as often in the countries of this National Assembly - not to say bob beans, but to go bob against the wall. Many of the arguments that were put forward here were simply not heard and I believe my colleague Croat when he said, "You can't convince me!" Of course, if someone chooses to do so, then I believe that with a lot of firm will it will be; either there be arguments or there will be no arguments. In short, if someone decides not to believe, they won't believe it. And quite a few debaters today have very easily debated these issues, which, as we have heard in the previous debate, have actually been very broad and very fundamental for our country. Now, colleague Györek - obviously also a constitutional expert - said with his left hand that we have countless - or how many such constitutionally controversial laws we have here. And it is also very possible to make some assessments, and also colleague Hrvat said that he is confident that legal tariffs will increase in the coming years. Of course they will, because inflation will be. I am sure that the price of milk will increase, and I will never blame my colleague from the Slovenian People's Party, and I could. I think I would find just as many arguments for such a claim as you find when you oppose the proposal to assess the constitutionality of this referendum initiative. We have heard a lot about the incomparability of professions, we have also heard comparisons of lawyers, such as doctors, even though we know that lawyers are not public services and so on. I'm just waiting for someone to say that we also have to tell beautiful surgeons who are not part of public health, so to speak, so much and so much this operation costs so much and so much and so on. Of course, these old ones don't go that easy. Certain debates, which are heard here, are not worthy or may not even help if they hear the arguments, but I would still say to Mr Trimenity that it is not true that the Roma or - as it says - the Gypsies have all the rights. They have their day today, but as far as their rights are concerned, as well as in the National Assembly, for example, on the Commission on National Rights, they do not have an accomplice at all. The National Assembly shall have the Commission for National Rights and Roma, a registered national minority, in the Constitution, they shall not be interlocutors of this Commission. I think it should be, say, repaired. It has also been said here many times that as long as there is one lawyer who will exercise this constitutionally guaranteed right to free legal aid and to defend, on an official basis, that there is no real threat in the short term, for what we are taking from the first-signed Mr Sajovic. In short, what we're saying could have come about. But in ethics, in codes of ethics of individual professions, and if they are so well written and respected, the rule of law cannot build its system. Although it can be based on them, but it has to have its own system, to say, arranged, "sliding" if you want. This is not the case, as mentioned earlier, that the candidates for the constitutional review of the referendum initiative would like to limit this referendum right, but also the referendum right is limited by the law on referendum and human initiative, and this allows for the State Assembly to submit this request for constitutionality assessment if such consequences could arise. And that's all we want to do before we actually go into things that would cast a shadow again on the credibility of this National Assembly, so that we can ask people, in short, about things that are difficult to decide because they haven't been informed enough about. Those who inform them do not at all inform them of the things they should have, in short, because it is not in the political interest. And second. If we send people to the referendums so often, they'll probably wonder why they sent us here. Because people sent us here to make decisions instead of them, to make wise, responsible decisions, and to give them peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u168	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would kindly ask you to follow the debates of Members, especially on the other hand, to warn them that when any member of the opposition is not in the Chamber, they will not stumble into it and process it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u170	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u171	with different adjectives, nicknames, insinuations and so on. [[...]] If you're up for it, accept the game, when we're here, when people are here, so you can answer it properly. That's our problem, you take care of yourself. The second thing is, I would like to reiterate that this debate is held without arguments, without data. The Ministry has been asked three times, four times, to deliver the data, both when switching to the list and from the list of lawyers for free legal aid, as well as for tariff data. We don't get that somehow. Then it is the perfect transfer of all those who discuss what the real purpose of the law is. The actual purpose of the law is Article 19 of the law you have submitted. And in the first paragraph, it abolishes the legal rate brought by Smurf's law. Just to say it to the end - and that means that the tariffs will return to the original starting point, which will be higher. The Law of Storms reduced the legal tariffs by 20% to 70% [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u172	Comrade Tanko, this is a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u173	I'll say it to the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u174	Well, it's a debate. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u175	20% to 70% of the tariffs have been reduced. [[....]] If you want to destroy this law, some tariffs will jump three times. And one more thing I'd like to ask you to let me know. Speaking of arguments and who is inadvertently discussing and who is afraid of any debate when it comes to colleagues, fear, then if there was anything in your pants, they would give you to the proposer, the SDS Group, 120 minutes, not just to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I have already responded to the second part of your data initiative and will not answer again. The second is with regard to your comments, but here two groups of Members have a different view on a particular problem. And these views are cleared up in each other's dilemmas. This controversy is not unusual, as have many debates in this mandate, in previous mandates and so far, since I have been following in detail, it has not exceeded some of the frameworks that should actually make the bells pay. As far as the relationship between colleagues is concerned, I think this is a question of the use of words and the question of addressing. There is no rule that a colleague who is in the Chamber could not be disputed with a colleague who is not in the Chamber, but who is in the National Assembly and who has spoken before, there is no such rule. Although I have to admit, I'm holding on to it myself. But if someone else doesn't stick to it, don't do anything wrong. That's what we're done with. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately today is a sad day for Slovenia and Slovenian democracy, because today it is again trying to prevent citizens and citizens from [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u178	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u179	decide on matters which are very important to them. [[...]] Today we are once again witnessing the many abuses of the Constitutional Court, that you have done many times by colleagues and colleagues from the coalition in recent years, and with these procedural proposals, the tricks have in fact prevented the constitutional right to call for a referendum from being realized. So I suggest to all of you both the government and the coalition, read the Constitution, Article 3. It says well that in Slovenia it has authority over the people, and if you do not have it clear enough, take another look at it. Then I hope you understand. I wonder why you're afraid of the referendum. Why, if what the Minister here has been deceiving the public for two hours now and you, if there was at least one small one, I firmly believe that it would be you who would support the referendum and let people decide on these matters. But you all know that's not the case. And that's why you do all kinds of different ways and tricks to make it impossible for people at the referendum to make decisions about this law, which very much interferes with their material existence as well as with many other things. It is not true that tariffs will be maintained or even lower; they will rise substantially, twice or even more! It's not true that until now, lawyers couldn't have been protected by whoever they wanted to be, they could have been insured. Neither did the Minister say one case - and I believe that he is not in Slovenia, that any lawyer would be accused or even convicted of a bad job. I don't know him if the minister knows him, let him speak out here in public. So all these arguments you've been saying here for six, seven hours, unfortunately, don't last. You are deceiving the public, but I am firmly convinced that this referendum will come to the conclusion that the Constitutional Court will also have to respect the Constitution, which stipulates that at least one third of the Members will be awarded a referendum. And in the end, just one more explanation. Previously, a colleague of Brunskole's had a bit of a falling out in her debate, and she was saying, [[...]] [[Objection in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u180	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u181	She'll be able to read the magnetogram. When Reciting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u182	There is no dialogue between us beyond the words of the President. Please proceed, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. When she argued that the SDS Members did not confirm the 2009 budget rebalancing. Let me say here that we have not confirmed it because, despite more than one billion more spending, important projects have fallen out for Dolenjska, the White Country, where it comes from. If he thinks that the money earmarked by the Janšev government in 2009 for the 4 million-euro central waste dump in 2010, 4 million euros in 2011, 4 million euros is now nothing. I'm glad my colleague Brunskole's here. Now, in 2009, there was nothing in 2010 – nothing in 2011 – only after 2012, when this mandate will expire when the new government will have to decide on these matters. And 50,000 euros, as many as 4 million have been added, is unfortunately only possible for brands. Not to mention the projects that have fallen out, from the hospital to the hydraulic improvements on the water supply. Mainly, it was a budget rebalancing to the great harm of Dolenjska, the White Land, from where we come both me and her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Member, Mr Ivan Grill, who is also a member of the Municipality of Novo Mesto. That's very nice of you to say, but I think we should know this project as partners in the Cerod project. And I hope that you have been introduced by your colleagues in the Municipality of Novo Mesto. If you're not, then I don't think they trust you. However, I hope that you have been informed that in 2009 a maximum of EUR 50 000 is needed to prepare the project documentation. Therefore, in today’s times of crisis, why have 4 million in the balance if we really don’t need them. I think we need to be realistic in these times, modest. It's right to say something, but let's say it right. This is somehow my proposal, and I believe, fellow Member, that we will continue to work well together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Yosko Godec has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u187	I agree with Mr Tank and many of the SDS Group Members who have said one and the same too many times that what is happening to today is not right. This is my firm conviction, not my opinion, after a modest knowledge of the rules of procedure and practice in almost twenty years in the National Assembly. As this meeting is now taking place, there is a scenario that is possible but is not sustainable. I disagree with you, but I will always fight that you have the right to say, even if you are proposing a point. And this is where we ended up. And what is now in the National Assembly is simply said for me - not in that sense; what Mr Grill says - is something that will have to be set in the future differently. Also because the request for this meeting was due to a request for a referendum and this order has changed. But to the point. It is wrong to discuss the law today. The law is adopted, the one that is not yet in force, and the ones that are valid, which has many mistakes and which have led to the need to amend the law. From 1. 1. 2009 we have a situation that may already have irreparable consequences for citizens and citizens, as well as for others who will be involved in the procedures in this country. It is certain that marriage could be better, different. To be able to handle this in a different way. The Ministry has decided as it has done, including the procedure imposed by urgency, was as it is. You said: no, we don't want to take responsibility, but it's great if we create a chaotic situation in this country, that the Smurf Act will apply, which some provisions will not provide legal certainty when it comes to formal defence and when it comes to free legal aid. And it's basically about human rights. Basically, this is about what the National Assembly has yet to do. For ten years, we could not do so, thanks to the party that is today the largest in the opposition, that we must change the referendum law or write down in the constitution what is unacceptable for us to put people into decision-making. As is unacceptable with regard to certain international activities of the State or treaties, ratifications and so on, as is unacceptable with regard to taxes, such as those on human rights and so on. I hope to state that we are dealing in this case with fundamental human rights, denying what this country has regulated by its legal provisions, that citizens have the right to be ensured. I don't know if there's a lawyer or a lawyer in this country, and for all the cases that are coming up, she can work in front of all the courts in Slovenia; I don't know, maybe there are. But since I believe that you have the right to request a referendum to be signed, I also believe that it is well arranged that those who think otherwise have the right to ask the Constitutional Court, what would have happened if that were the case. There's nothing else going on here today. Whom someone would convince whether there was any regulation - I regret that the Minister was half an hour and more talking about things that went completely past and no argument, but were justified, they referred exactly to the matter that people were supposed to judge at the referendum, and they went completely over. This law does not regulate the things you are talking about, nor should it leave you responsible. Only one argument is: to do as little as possible a chaotic state, to show how the government is incapacitated. I'm not going to go into some speculation about what's supposed to happen and what's going on. I am sure that it is possible to discuss today very widely and for a long time - but why not discuss the proposal for a decision rather than a law? We can't make the law at this point, even if we wanted to, we can't turn it into a procedure tomorrow, as it was said. This procedure must go all the way. It must go to the end now, you do not deviate from the request for a referendum, we want to talk about how you want to obtain a guarantee that in these cases, the tariffs that we quote will not increase in the next two, three years or as long as this situation arises. But we are talking about cases that this law is supposed to regulate. So I simply do not dare; for the first time, to place the responsibility for this decision on the electorate, and for the second time, to take responsibility without asking the Constitutional Court whether this would have an unconstitutional effect. For it is not only that I do not hope to assume this responsibility, nor do I have the opportunity, because if this instrument were not to exist, we should simply, according to the request, sign a referendum and it would happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u188	However, I have to say procedurally that I deny and reject the view that the distribution of the timeline was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, was and there is no doubt about it. At the same time, I would like to say that we are discussing the decision, both of us and of the others, and if we are discussing the decision, we must discuss the merits of the decision and the assumption that there will or will not be any adverse consequences if the law is not enforced and we are also discussing the law at that time. It is therefore impossible to distinguish this from one another, so it seems to me that the debate is absolutely taking place in the context; and the criteria for the conclusion of the technical decision itself cannot be discussed in this respect. We are not discussing a decision, we have not reached a decision, we will come to a decision if the Constitutional Court says we are not talking about it. That's not a controversy, that's an explanation. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u189	Mr President, since we have come quite far, it seems, even a person should not tell his opinion on what he thinks if you give the applicants five minutes and the applicants five minutes and 120 minutes. I'll never agree with that. And in any way, you can cover, until now, things have always been balanced. I'm going to fight for it, and I'm asking you to, but since last week's situation has been similar, keep it up in college. That's my opinion, if you don't want to, keep working. However, as far as the debate is concerned, I believe that you also have the opportunity to do so to replicate the individual debater, but I have actually only discussed the decisions that have been taken at the Committee's meeting today and, consequently, if this decision has not been adopted, would have decided on a decision to call for a referendum. That's all. That's all I've discussed. And yet today it is on the agenda if you read the point - you know what is on the agenda: decree; decree is on the agenda, not the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister. First of all, I must say that I disagree, and it is unacceptable, procedurally, that we must not talk about Members who are not here, even though they are paid to sit here when we have a meeting of the National Assembly. On the other hand, you're talking about lawyers and specific lawyers who aren't here and can't be here at all. By clearing it up with yourself. The real question that should be dealt with at least as enthusiastically as we are dealing with this issue today is why people should even hire and use legal services. And I think that the real question that the National Assembly might have to give him is a more heated debate. So priority problems, the question is, what should we do in this country so that people don't need these services so badly? Some fellow Members of the opposition said that more than a hundred, a few hundred thousand people would be deprived of this amendment to this law on legal representation. Of course, I personally believe that in this case it is an initiative to call for a referendum on the proposed amendments and additions to the law on lawyering for the simple political mockery of the opposition, which deliberately tries to mislead the public with its argument, which refers to a high rise in legal services. Why is this a political prank? Firstly, because we are just ahead of the European elections and it is good for you to win the election votes in the European elections in order to at least ensure greater participation than is predicted. Secondly, because the Law on Lawyers does not regulate the level of legal fees at all. This is regulated by a special law that has already been said a lot today. And we will later, also, which you are saying does not raise the bar tariffs, by a concrete case prove to you what I did the previous time, that this is the case. And thirdly, because the new Smurf Law on Lawyers, which entered into force in January this year, has allowed some, I will not use the term court lawyers of the previous government composition dealing with the audit procedures of public procurement, astronomically high earnings. If, under the old tariff law, it was possible to recognise the lawyer for each act of representation in the audit procedure from EUR 1,500 to EUR 30,000, today this sum is EUR 150 and also EUR several thousand. I believe that many in the opposition will be in pain if his friend or acquaintance from this period, which I mentioned earlier, is deprived of this income. However, since you said before that there are no concrete arguments, I do have one such audit request that was written this year. Here is: The composition of audit requests, the sum is €47 million - one project from one; I am talking about the Ministry - €79,000 and some is the composition of the audit request, 2% of the material costs, 20% VAT and 10,000 euros tax. That's almost €105,000. This court lawyer you have for these audit procedures, and you know this very well who it is, means that three times he makes such a audit request and he can go to Mauritius and enjoy it there for the next three years. Today, you say that in the global world, legal services, which you have no proof of, will increase in the future, that most people will be affected and you are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are supposed to be deprived of this new law. I gave you a concrete case that is in force today; today on 8 April 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u193	Dear President! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, Minister Zalar behaved well, and he did a great job, and he made an excellent argument. And I have to admit, he knows his business. I don't know. Maybe even on account of who's in the way. But I do know that from the argument, from that true argument, the answer to the reply, the step-by-step, I have received answers to all the questions raised by the proponents. At this point, I can only agree with that. I wouldn't go into any untruth and touch only the questions that have recently been asked, so why are you afraid of the referendum? Yeah, my God, who's afraid of the referendum? Nobody's afraid of the referendum. The referendum is a legal instrument that anyone can "retract" at the discretion of them. You've all talked about the problems, the times of crisis and the bad times for Slovenia and so on, and then we come to this question, whether it's now the forgiveness, the bankruptcy, the crisis situation, the time for such dispersal as this is the result. Of course, the argument before it was said that legal services would be encouraged, and so on, from the vine is twisted, because we do not yet have these cases. And I think the allegations are mostly unrealistic and more manipulative. And I don't know what the goal is today, but on the other hand, we could ask ourselves, what is the aim of the referendum, and what is the goal of the chaos that you want to show. I don't know what this is about. The sooner it is likely that this will turn out, and those who now have such goals, but not those that we should talk about today, especially the crisis situation and what I have said, will, of course, be happy to vote that the Constitutional Court should first speak its own language and then we will be able to talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u195	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to add something essential after a rich discussion. However, it should be mentioned that the law on legal representation, which we give to the Member and Members of the opposition with the constitutional category of fulfilment of the provisions, and, on the other hand, the reference to today's extraordinary meeting requested by the coalition. In fact, both requirements meet the constitutional category in accordance with Article 90 and, on the other hand, the references to today's extraordinary meeting in accordance with Article 85 of our Rules of Procedure. However, in all of this content, liberals also report something that we have on e-mails, while today’s extraordinary meeting is under way. It's tariffs and it's legal tariffs again. Of course, in the debate, I am trying to limit myself to what is actually the matter or what is the opinion of the proposalers on the emergence of anti-constitutional consequences if the people refuse to adopt a bill at the referendum. It means that the legislation in force is unconstitutional. In this case, I think it's a bit too much of a forecast in this sense, because I don't see any reliable arguments that would actually back this up. And any such prediction, which is not strong enough, is so much more necessary for us to judge whether or not a law should enter into force. We have also come from a simple fact that during this crisis we are also trying to contribute to the fact that the call and the costs of the referendum would not be so financially difficult to carry out together with the elections to the European Parliament. I hope and expect, but above all I want to do so in terms of rationalising the costs of the referendum, so that we can succeed, all of us, who are responsible for the functioning of the rule of law, in order, however, to reach a referendum on the date of the European elections. That would save us a lot of money. If there is a referendum outside this deadline, we are faced with the fact that we cannot withdraw what is argued, which has all the constitutional and legal grounds for asking the people what they think. Once again, I believe that today's debate and the content of today's debate at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was not demanded by the opposition, is an attempt by the coalition to bring the content of the debate in this direction, but to make it clear why we are discussing today or why the content of this debate would be one positive contribution to citizens and citizens today, in which we weighed between what the coalition requires and what the opposition requires. However, I am always on the side with which the greatest democratic opportunity is expressed for all people who are ultimately affected by any content of legal change in one way or another. In a particular case, once again, it is difficult to avoid Members and Members discussing legal tariffs today. That is why I want these to be adapted in the future, as is the case for economists in this open market, so that each one tries to ensure his own piece of bread in the open market, both those in the economy and those in the non-economic sector and, of course, lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. If we are trying to analyse the issues that arise at the referendums, we are also often faced with the fact that we are actually forcing people to decide something that they do not really know well. And certainly, the bar tariff is one of those content that is not well-known, in my opinion, not even the proponents, i.e. the referendum and, of course, also, if we look at the debate itself, we find that this tariff-setting system is extremely demanding and, of course, subject to the many opinions of the most prominent lawyers and experts working in this area. Surely everyone who goes to the referendum is once again forced to decide on something that they do not really know exactly what it means. That is why I think it is important to note, however, the fact that we met during the previous government period with great interest in promoting political interest, in the field of the media, in the judiciary, in the legislative branches of government, in police action. In short, the impact of the policy felt right in every area and the reflection of the Law on Lawyers was also the one when the policy or executive branch of the government or the government wanted to directly involve itself in the formulation of the tariff, past the state-owned organisation of lawyers. This policy impact has decreased significantly with the amendment of the law, and it can also be said that it has been aligned, particularly with the justice system, which allows lawyers to play a special role. It is a self-serving service that has this autonomy defined in the Constitution. And, of course, this is a fact that we still have to respect in all these cases. Today's debate and extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly also prove that this is an extremely complex and complex issue, which must also be examined by the Constitutional Court before we finally embark on the call for a referendum on this tariff regulation. Today's session, as well as the initiative, I think, to be judged by the Constitutional Court, is yet to be seen. Let us hope that we will not needlessly spend resources on a question that I claim not even the proposer, but only those who will go, say, to the referendum understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that, after 8 hours of discussion today, we have not been able to obtain any data from the applicants of the meeting, nor from the Minister, although we have repeatedly requested this, I can conclude that the purpose of the amendment of the law is only to transfer the power to decide on the legal tariffs from the State Chamber to the Bar Association, and this is probably not to lower these tariffs, but to increase these tariffs. For now, under the applicable law, these tariffs are 20 to 70% lower than those established before the adoption of the Smurf Act. The second objective of the coalition is the competence to decide on legal tariffs. I personally believe that the National Assembly is a better place than a minister, in both cases the tariffs are decided by a policy or by a policy consensus. However, the National Assembly is a more democratic place than a minister, especially when we can find ourselves in situations where the President of the Bar is from the same party as the Minister, and the President of the Bar is the former Minister and cases such as now, we can have even more. In fact, I was tempted by one thing: that the coalition was not able to fight or support the proposal for the single monetary assistance proposed in the budget debate, did not propose any solutions to raise the minimum wage or the lowest pensions, but was fighting for the status and standard of the upper middle layer or even a higher layer of Slovenian society where lawyers undoubtedly belong. That is why the coalition has made all its influence, all its voting power. I think it is difficult for us to say that you are in favour of the social and legal state. As tariffs rise, many will be prevented from exercising their rights in civil or labour disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. For the third time, on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, I call on the candidates for the referendum to consider their proposal. To consider whether it would not be much more prudent, as colleague Brunskola suggested, to devote four million euros of the necessary funds for the referendum to those things you prefer to talk about, namely those who are unemployed, who are losing their jobs, who are hungry, who have to go looking for money or food in stores that have cheaper goods and so on. I suggest you think about it, there has been no answer so far, so I repeat it for the third time. However, I think it is right that we have done this debate. It may benefit citizens and citizens, if a referendum is reached, even more, it will benefit the Constitutional Court to assess whether the proposed referendum requirements are really mature to be decided by citizens and citizens at the referendum. For I will be so unfriendly to you, even to Mr Grill, that I will read the whole paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, not only to what Mr Grill can read: "In Slovenia, the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." Here and so is defined power and power has legislation, the Constitution, different methods of decision-making, and it does not matter where not only the most democratic but also the most qualitative decision can be made. And the Constitutional Court will judge, on the basis of our request, whether the arguments you offer to citizens and citizens, which in most cases are invented and can be argued and, even as they are made up, it is indeed appropriate to decide on this at the referendum. See, if your concept were to be adopted in order for the Council of State to decide on the legal tariff, which was the content of Sturm's law until recently, then a referendum would be held on any change in the tariff, since the opposition would ask you to give it to the referendum. Is that democracy? Is this an effective legal state?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government? Mr. Minister Zalar. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u203	Mr President, I suggest you warn Mr Potræ that he does not deceive the public because this referendum will not stand in the course of the European elections. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u204	It's not procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u205	Nothing at all, so don't fool around. [[...]] But if you have not, Mr Potrč, understood Article 3 and read it again, there is no need for the whole, and you will find that the people must have authority in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u206	Thank you. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Please, Minister Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that one last time, I hope. Once again, I firmly reject the claim that the government's goal was to raise the legal tariffs when the new Law on Lawyers was introduced. This has never been the goal of this government, has not been declared or recorded, nor will this government implement it. However, one of the objectives was to strengthen the disciplinary regime of lawyers. As the question was raised here today, why I did not serve with concrete data, I will do so now. In the last year, the Disciplinary Prosecutor at the Bar Association has dealt with a total of 94 cases in which the rules of legal ethics or legal profession are to be violated. 92 of these 94 cases have already been resolved by the Disciplinary Prosecutor. So the level of solved matters is very high. He only received 15 new cases in March this year. In the last year, the First Class Disciplinary Commission issued two warnings to lawyers, eight fines, four cases of withdrawal of disciplinary charges, two cases of withdrawal of a license to a lawyer and two cases of dismissal of charges. At the second stage, the disciplinary authority dealt with 12 complaints, 7 of which ended, 5 of which were still open. In one case, the complaint was granted, in three cases the complaints were rejected, in one case there was a deletion from the lawyer register and in two cases the proceedings were closed. So much for data on disciplinary matters. Otherwise, allow me to repeat once again what the government's main objective is in relation to the amendment of the Law on Lawyery. The main objective is to ensure the safety of people and to ensure the safety of their property. The Government considers that this security must be ensured in a way that anyone who has committed or who is suspected of serving a criminal offence is brought before a judge and that it has been dealt with and that, if he has committed a criminal offence, he has also been sanctioned. This now prevents us from the current law, which was passed by the previous government, and therefore we believe that it is necessary to amend the Law on Lawyers so that lawyers are obliged to provide compulsory free legal assistance. The second objective is to ensure the rights of the poor, the rights of those who are at the social threshold and who are entitled, through our Constitution, to access the court and to quality representation and therefore represented by lawyers. Nor can this objective be achieved without a change of law. All of this, according to our assessment, brings with it difficult corrective or even irreparable counter-constitutional consequences if the amendment of the law does not take place and therefore the Government proposes that the National Assembly support the request of a group of Members to bring this matter before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must warn and make a procedural proposal, because Mr Franco Juri had previously abused the replica institute and also abused the chairman. He replicated to me if I didn't say exactly what he said. Now I am going to read from the magnetogram, because I told him that he claimed that "we will by this law provide all citizens and all citizens with the opportunity and the right to free legal aid." And that's a magnetogram quote, and he did it again. We have before us a proposal that takes care of all citizens and citizens. And he said he didn't say it, he abused Mr. Vasja Klavora, who couldn't have known that he abused this possibility of replica and I ask you to warn him because of such [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u210	Mr Jerovšek, now you are abusing the procedural question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u211	Please warn the Member [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u212	This should be settled in the course of the debate, now it is too late. [[...]] Thank you. I give my word to the magician. Borut Saivitz. He wants a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I am pleased that the debate is on its way to the end. That the debate showed that weeds and political flossules separated from arguments. What we have heard about tariffs only confirms that the current regime with Sturm's law is weak in certain areas, particularly because it threatens the legal aid of more than 12,000 socially at risk. That certain tariffs in the field of audits are abnormal and too high. A fellow Member, Mr Kumer, has shown on a practical case that for a day or two there is an account of 100,000 euros. We are also warned by the stories from the economy, once the tomato horse of Elan, the upper and lower economies, which apparently also financially exhausted by high, I think, high legal tariffs. That in times when many people are likely to lose jobs and recession and economic crisis is just an excuse, and how they need available or free legal assistance. And what worries us is that the current, current, current Storm Act has led Slovenia to the possibility that those who commit the worst crimes, murderers, rapists and robbers, because the presence of a lawyer, tomorrow or tomorrow will not be guaranteed. I am pleased that we are part of a coalition that has found that legislation in this area is weak, that we have changed the law and that it places Slovenia on that place on the European map, between the right and the rule of law. Therefore, as first-signed candidates, I propose that we support the constitutional assessment today to resolve the dilemma between the position and the opposition by the Constitutional Court. And as candidates, we will respect the Constitutional Court's decision, as we have done so far. On the one hand, however, we may be hurt and threatened that the Constitutional Court is experiencing so much mistrust, so many perceptions, as it was elected by a large majority in the National Assembly. That is why I think we have had a useful debate, which can certainly increase the legal status of Slovenes and Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much. He has the word on behalf of the proposaler mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u215	We are adjourning the meeting, at which the ruling coalition, together with the Government, has allocated itself to debate and closing words for 125 minutes and 5 minutes to the referendum's proposer. Twenty-five times as many as took the coalition and thus proved that it wanted only a mass of empty words to emulate the truth and that it was counting on it to go with an argument of power over the power of arguments. That is why it was in some way a sad day for democracy, because it is a grave beginning of what is a fundamental value - this is a question of parliamentaryism, the question of freedom of public expression and also the question of equal treatment of arguments in Parliament, where this is the key place. You did this because you lied to yourself. You've been arguing all along, it's not about raising tariffs, it's not about that at all, because in fact, Smurf's law has caused a rise in tariffs, which we've heard thousands of times today. In your own writing, ladies and gentlemen, you have attached a record of the Bar, which I quote: "The main problem is that the legal tariff has been reduced by 66% since the law was enforced in the time of the government of Janez Janša." With your own material, you have put your key argument entirely on the lie and you have made yourself a strong mockery. I only hope that the media will get this right and that you will be properly presented in public. And the key problem is that the tariff has fallen by 66%, as stated in your own work, then all the presidents of the District Committees of the Bar Association have attracted, and that is the problem that is the basis of today's session. It's only about raising legal fees. Another delusion. You kept saying, "Yeah, we want people, all people," some of you said, "provide free help." What a hoax. Free aid is governed by some other legislation and regulated independently of what we are talking about today. You do not defend this in anything, but you want to enable one very narrow, well-organised group, loud and rich group of lawyers within the bar, which is by no means entirely in this position, it is a minority, providing huge additional resources, only for their tariffs and nothing else. And you always pretended to do it in the interest of a little man. The little man is only affected by those who are now withdrawing from the leaves and who are being defended by you. You're acting as their political emissaries here today, in the National Assembly. And I believe that it was hard for a lot of people among you to defend the nonsense you claimed. This is supposed to be the reason for people to give up their right to decide at the referendum. Extortion. I do not believe that the Constitutional Court will listen to this; I do not particularly believe this because they are right with the neighbours, through whom we are following the constitutional example of Austria, Germany, this is regulated exactly as the current law governs. It is only whether a legal tariff will be regulated by law in Parliament, democratically, transparently, in front of the public or because of a different nature of work somewhere in the previous consent of the Minister, which, of course, also further excludes any particular additional autonomy of lawyers, but of course far from the public eye. It's just the eyes of the public in this case. Those withdrawing from this free assistance list, which, of course, is paid by taxpayers, are currently violating their own ethical code, and you all know that. This is also the only point at which we all agree. But this is not really such a problem as it shows, at least a problem that would be the reason that the referendum would not be, because in the same, your own material, you again offered a chronic argument that puts you over-puffing this problem into a lie. The president of the Regional Organisation of the Bar of Ljubljana said that certain members are now applying to the rosters for representation under official duty or for free legal assistance paid by taxpayers. That's saying, some go, some come, this problem doesn't really mean what you're showing in dimensions like this. And above all, you did not give any arguments. [[...]] [[Time-out, turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? He does. I'm asking you to sign up. I find that there are as many as 50 speakers reported. We only have 27 minutes. I think any substantive debate in this sense is pointless, 33 seconds. Therefore, I suggest we move on to a decision, but 33 seconds is not enough for a serious debate. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. As no amendment to the proposal for a decision has been adopted, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considers that, in view of the postponement, enforcement and possible rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers [[ZDv-C]] the EPA 248-V, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 27 March 2009 as a result of the required legislative referendum, produces consequences which do not comply with Articles 2, 15, 20, 22 and 23, second paragraph of Article 29 and Articles 34 and 137 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum 22 and on Human Initiative [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 26/07, officially purified text]] requests that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide on this. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u217	Your Honor! In this Chamber, the Slovenian Constitution has been trampled on several times by the ruling coalition for the past six months, and today the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which the President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure, in addition to our Group of Members, has also failed to point out. In addition to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Government or the Minister of Justice were represented for two hours by their views on matters which were not the subject of a proposal, and we did not have this option. Applicants from the ruling coalition failed to substantiate the anti-constitutional consequences that would have arisen if Zalar's amendment to the Law on Advocacy at the referendum had been rejected, nor did it have consequences in the period leading up to the referendum decision. In order to avoid such consequences, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also follows. On the other hand, you failed to justify the fear that the socially weaker would be deprived of legal aid, nor the fear that due to the lack of lawyers acting on official duty, legal proceedings could be conducted. Despite the repeated request we have expressed in the course of the debate, there is no concrete information on how many lawyers have actually been released from the legal catalogue, which are obliged to provide free legal aid and assistance "ex offo", nor how many have been entered into the register since Smurf's novel law. Even the Justice Minister doesn't have that information. Today, he made this public in this National Assembly. Instead of making threats and calls by the Slovenian Bar Association for extracts from the list of lawyers representing the parties on official duty or providing free legal assistance services, the Minister of Justice and the Government condemned and adopted measures to the extent that such fear seemed realistic to them, they gave in to this lobby. The request for constitutional review is therefore naked, tempted, intended solely to prevent a referendum on the European Parliament's election day. Rather than allowing the Government, if it has assessed that there are any minor weaknesses in the existing law, to come to Parliament and address these minor weaknesses, it will return the same decision on complaints against their work to the lawyers themselves, which will only contribute to the additional erosion of the rule of law. This is done by the ruling coalition with incredible perseverance, without arguments, even without data, when it prevents a normal debate in the National Assembly and without facing real arguments. Could not close temporary folder: %s It is not possible to support a legal and substantively unfounded attempt to prevent a referendum on which the Constitution is clear and unequivocal in Article 90. If at least one third of the Members so require, the National Assembly shall call for a referendum. The Group of Members of this Decision will not support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are convinced that we did the right thing when we requested that the Constitutional Court judge the request for a referendum of two opposition opposition groups. We will support such a proposal and vote in favour of such a decision. Today's debate confirms that this is not an objective picture of the real problem and the actual situation, but that you want again, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the public's awareness of voting on issues that are not the content and essential issue of this law. The adopted law does not change the legal rate, except in one case for the benefit of legal entities. The main problem with changes in legal tariffs by Sturm's law is the reduction of legal fees for official representation, which does not relate to the direct interests of citizens and citizens, but to the interests of the State. We do not object that this is not an easy decision, but is not related to the rights of citizens and citizens. We believe, however, that there is a serious danger that the decision taken at the referendum, which would require the law not to be confirmed, would result in the failure to exercise the right of the official advocate by the affected, that the right to free counsel by those in the most difficult social situation cannot be exercised, and that in fact, even though you claim otherwise, the legal tariffs for the case of audits would increase by so many times that this could seriously jeopardise the State's budget. We are convinced that the Constitutional Court is the one who will be able to judge what has the advantage or human rights and respect for the rule of law or the level of the legal tariff. Is it right that you have established the principle that you are also playing with an important institution of the rule of law for the price of disrespect for human rights and legal security, that is, a referendum that should and should be enforced at that time? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u220	Mr. Run, no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u221	when it comes to the important interests of the State, not to abuse the feelings and material position of people for a particular decision. [[...]] We will support the proposal for a decision and we are confident that the Constitutional Court's decision will be able to follow the fundamental objectives and interests of the State, not the political demagogies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Do you want to explain your voice in your own name? Please apply for explanations of vote in your own name. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u223	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I will not support the proposed decision. Allow me to explain to you why I am dressed in black today in Parliament. Again, something very important has happened in this House, and the burial of the rule of law and democracy has taken place again. I'll explain why. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When you try to reject with all the instruments given so that what the opposition has proposed will not come into effect, so that there will be a decision on the referendum when it comes to the law on lawyering, then you try to break the fundamental foundations of the rule of law, according to my assessment and the assessment of a number of us here. The Constitution has been mentioned many times today, as stated in Article 3 of the Constitution. It clearly states that the referendum is the one who decides that the people are the ones who decide in this country. And you are trying to prevent all possible options from going to the referendum, or from being decided by people, Slovenes and Slovenians. And that's what's amazing. We return to the time before Slovenia's independence. We return to the time when the Communist Union decided who, what, and why. That's unacceptable. We return to a time when Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens have no right to decide what the opposition has proposed today. She proposed only something important, that is, that Slovenians and Slovenians decide whether they are opposed to or opposed to the law proposed by the position or government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u225	I will vote against it, because it would be right for the people to experience this obviously inflatable coalition as soon as possible, which also reflects with a smile at the moment, their moment of truth, when they tell themselves what they think about their policy, when, at the expense of all citizens and citizens, they promote the enrichment of a very narrow group of people. All their arguments today were completely irrelevant, as is the opinion of the legal service, which, earlier than you took 25 times more time yourself, I have not been able to read and therefore I now quote: "It is not possible to argue that the postponement or rejection of the novel Law on Lawyerry at this point would have a counter-constitutional effect." All you have said is in direct contradiction to what is said in the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly. And how flimsy those ridiculous arguments were. Communicating to revision tariffs. If the Minister wanted to arrange this, he would have proposed to the National Assembly a novelty of the Law on legal tariffs a long time ago, but he didn't. That's because you want to enrich a narrow group of people who, by the way, are blackmailing and because the minister didn't do what he would be. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u226	Don't argue, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u227	under the law and the Constitution, it is incumbent upon the people to do so, in your opinion, to withdraw the right of direct decision at the referendum, their constitutional right. [[..]] Is it possible to show even more the depth of undemocraticism and deceit that is the foundation of this ruling coalition?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Collaborators and coworkers, a nice greeting! My explanation for the voice is very brief. The whole debate today could be summarized with two sentences. First sentence: the right to a referendum is inalienable and, if a referendum is required and is in accordance with the Constitution, I must be a referendum. Second sentence: The National Assembly has the right to determine whether or not a specific referendum is in accordance with the Constitution. That's all. Today, the National Assembly will most likely decide that it will want to determine whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, if it is in accordance with the Constitution, I hope that yes, the referendum will have to be, if it is not, it will not. That's all. That's why I'm going to confirm this decision. As long as it is in accordance with the Constitution, I will strongly support the fact that the referendum is being held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot support this decision in any case, because it is unacceptable that in Slovenia it is once again impossible that important matters concerning our citizens and citizens cannot be decided on their own at the referendum. Unfortunately, today's more than 8 hours of long debate has not convinced us, I believe that not even the coalition Members and Members, I believe not, nor the public, but not us Members who have proposed this referendum. I wonder why you should not allow these things to be decided by citizens and citizens when European elections are held at the same time when there will be no additional costs. Why do you allow the possibility of a law such as that of a lawyer to be placed in an untouchable position, when they will determine their own legal fees when they decide themselves in the event of their irregularities, which will determine their own way of insurance in the event that one of them will claim compensation when it is found that their work has been poor? This is unacceptable, this is a violation of the Constitution, and I think our public will soon become aware of it. Once again, I cannot support such a conclusion in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Menich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, fellow Members. We are in an economic crisis that has a negative impact on the social security of citizens. We face cases of social distress in the congregations from day to day. Every day we meet new unemployed people who cannot pay basic municipal service bills, have no means of survival, and seek legal assistance to solve existing problems. The return of the powers to determine legal fees to the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia will undeniably make it possible to increase the legal tariffs, thus preventing the weakest and most vulnerable individuals from accessing legal services, thereby affecting both legal and social security. This will interfere with the constitutional principle of the rule of law and the social state and will prevent the weak from exercising the constitutional rights of equality over law, equal protection of rights and judicial protection. I will not support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u235	Mr President, although I am sitting on the very opposite side of the ruling coalition, they are speaking so loudly that I literally no longer hear the debate of our debaters and I would like to ask you to remind them that this is also a reflection of a low political culture, just as it reflects the extremely low political culture of their self-satisfaction that the minister had much to say when they took up twenty-five times the time we had before.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. Grimes. When I assess the need to be warned, I will warn you, but I must be honest with you that in these matters you are not without sin, neither on the one hand nor on the other. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. Allow me to explain my vote against it too, which is why I will vote against it because the request for a constitutional opinion is not justified. It was justified as the central issue that you discussed, namely that poor citizens should be deprived of legal aid, without legal representation, because lawyers strike and do not want to work at the price that the state should set in such cases. I understand the Minister's distress that, of course, there is something to be done about such a sentence, with such extracts from the list of these lawyers. However, unfortunately, he did so by meeting their demands directly, otherwise than with the possibility of higher prices, higher tariffs. They strike because of the tariff, so to speak. Thus, in Article 19 of its amendment, where the legal rate is now being adopted by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, is being amended. At the same time, the lawyer’s office froze its protest, its sentence. I understand all that. But I don't understand, gentlemen, this notion that it's not about tariffs, that it's not a price, that it's not the subject of this law at all. That's the central question. It's about profit. That's the heart of all these questions. Please, don't get carried away, there will be more honesty here in these debates if we say bob beans.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up again. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We are slowly approaching the conclusion of today's session. I must say that, at the best of will, I have not noticed that the coalition would speak to the minister 25 times more than has been said today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u240	Colleague Orazem, without controversy, explain your voice. Please, it's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u241	I'm just making a conclusion about today's session, and I'm not arguing with anyone, because I'm just wondering if I'm looking at this world badly. But it's true that Comrade Grimes had enough time to give us 25 times [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u242	you can't mention any names [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u243	today [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u244	Because they can't discuss it anymore. [[...]] Thank you. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I hope you don't interrupt me either. Because if the rules apply, they apply to everyone. I'll explain my voice. I'm going to say I'm going to vote in favour because the other side didn't convince me today. However, by the Government and the competent minister, I heard arguments that drink water. One of these arguments is that the legal tariffs do not increase with the amendment of the law. There were no arguments, on the other hand, about the referendum today. I'm sure it's another abuse. And that reminds me, as I said, of another referendum today, where there were many promises and many numbers. Among other things, Mr Grimes, I have read and I beg you to tell me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u246	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u247	Don't tell me or signal things because I prefer to look at my papers than yours. [[...]] So if I can explain to the end the voice without disturbances coming from the other side - I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u249	This decision cannot be supported because its purpose is not to protect legal certainty but to prevent the implementation of Article 90 of the Slovenian Constitution. Today, several times, it has been said by the Minister that legal tariffs are not a problem. Then why does the law change in this part? Why is the Law on Lawyers repealed if that's not the problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u250	Mr. Cernač, the Minister cannot answer, so you cannot argue with the Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u251	We have repeatedly said in the procedure that if possible weaknesses were detected or felt during the implementation of the law, then they must be supported. However, in all the debate today, we have not heard concrete information that those who have the right to free legal aid are at risk. The Minister himself transmitted the information we have in the material, 1,216 cases on free legal aid at 31. 12 last year, so one on average is a lawyer in this country. In a formal sense, this requirement is not justified, which is also based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We have been powerless to propose amendments when the amendment was under consideration, leaving the last option, which is legitimate, a referendum. The law or the Constitution does not differ on this issue of first-class or second-class issues or laws. The Constitution states in its 90th Article that the National Assembly may call a referendum on the law, but it must be notified if a third of Members and Members so propose. And this manoeuvre that we are witnessing to today is just a prevention of what our highest legislative act stipulates, that is the Constitution. As a result, this manoeuvre cannot be established and must be opposed in the interest of maintaining the rule of law and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this decision myself, and I would also like to express my great enthusiasm at the fact that you quoted the Law-Legal Service on several occasions today, the same Law-Legal Service that you have been vehemently overlooking at the time that you have adopted the current amendment of the Law on Lawyerry and when you have then ignored the opinion of the Law-Legal Service, which has warned, in several places that the provisions of that amendment may be constitutionally controversial. And when you say today that the Law-Legal Service has said, it is not possible to say that it will have the postponement or rejection of the novel illegal consequences, yes, yes, it does, but also that it is impossible to claim that it will not have such unlawful consequences. And that's why I'm here to ask the Constitutional Court to give its opinion. I must say that I am not satisfied with any geological approaches to this matter, so I will be happy to hear the opinion of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We're voting. You want an explanation of the voice? I got a request to explain my voice. I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Mrs. Pecanova has already raised her hand [[...]] Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that I am constantly together, with my colleagues and colleagues, controlled on the other hand, I do not doubt that I have applied for the floor in time. I would just like to say that I think it should be in the interest of all those present in this Chamber to vote on this decision, including the candidates for the referendum. Why? Because there is doubt, however, whether the referendum initiative is constitutionally appropriate or not. It is therefore good to ask the Constitutional Court whether this referendum initiative is constitutionally controversial or not. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of the decision. I suggest you vote in favour of all those who wish to have a referendum. Within 30 days, the Constitutional Court will certainly respond and there will still be time for the referendum, if the Constitutional Court finds that it is not unconstitutional, to go to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u256	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u257	between citizens and the time for European elections. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u259	Thank you very much, President. True, some of us already have glasses, but it is probably justified. But some people might need a hearing aid, and they'll get it slowly. I find that the arguments have been made and that, according to the domestic case, the interpretation has failed and the court should have the last word. I'm in favour of the court having the last word unless we know each other differently. I think we'll have to find these powers soon enough to find a common way. And I'm sure we'll have to find a way together sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u261	Your Honor! We've been listening for eight hours to these different arguments. I'll take the essentials, not the bat, just the quote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u262	I'm not afraid. Others have to be afraid. [[..]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] Peace in the hall! [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u263	I think you'll understand, just a brief quote from the letter: "Whom is given to understand, understood." [[...]] But who isn't, and it doesn't even help for the next eight hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u264	Peace in the hall! Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u265	I will vote in favour because it is a matter of exercising judicial protection over everything that is, in fact, the task of a minister. I will vote in favour because it is not about tariffs, because it is about justice for all citizens and citizens, because it is about trusting the Constitutional Court, because it is about consistently enforcing the rule of law and saving at least a million euros. It is indeed a time to paint the feathers, but I do not agree with the coloring of citizens and citizens, as some have done here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I ask again for an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Peace in the hall, please! Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Those who have problems with coloring and dyeing read the exit decision of all lawyers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u268	It's not a controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u269	I'm sorry. Read again the decision on the withdrawal of all lawyers who say they will not represent people on official duty because they do not agree with the award under the legal tariff of 1. 1. 2009 And together today, we found that this was blackmail, you said that you didn't approve of blackmail, which is not true because you allowed it. Because you allowed it when you approved the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u270	Colleague Jeraj, that's pure controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u271	I will vote against your proposal, i.e. the proposal that the Constitutional Court decide on this because the Constitutional Court already has one thing to decide on, and the Minister, with his authority, could tell the lawyer that the law will change when the Constitutional Court decides on their constitutionality requirement last year. But now it will probably be more hasty to decide both the referendum initiative and the referendum initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u273	I will vote against it, either because of this or mainly because the Law on Lawyers is still in constitutional judgment, and we are rushing and moving ahead with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which would have time to decide and finalise it. However, the National Assembly imposes on the Constitutional Court something that is speeding up the content of what the Constitutional Court has not yet decided. I also find it unacceptable, perhaps morally controversial on our part, or, however you wish, if the constitutional category is to give the final word of this law to citizens and citizens in accordance with the constitutional category, then we must also allow it. Of course, today's debate also shows the fact that we are trying to do things our way, but believe me, we will get a reliable answer when citizens and citizens finally have the floor to do so. And I am confident that my decision today will be to define myself against this and to give people the opportunity to make that decision by direct decision, i.e. at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-08-SDZ5-Izredna-09.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
