ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Good morning, and I believe it's a good morning. We are about to proceed with the 11th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Janez Janša and Ljubo Germič. I say hello to everyone who's here! I'm moving on to 10. Period of the day - it's on a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to the law on business, within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members, first signed by Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed drafters of the law Cvetka Zalokar Orazam for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-worker. We have tabled a proposal to amend the Law on Members, which would make the mayor's or the mayor's function incompatible with that of a Member, the leaders of the coalition groups SD, LDS, DeSUS and Zares. The question of the incompatibility of the two functions of love has so far been subject to a number of judgements and decisions in the National Assembly. However, for such and other reasons, among which the influence of the mayoral lobby, interests and calculations of political parties can also be considered, I am thinking of everything here, without exception, and also because of the interests of individuals, in short, because of all this there has never been a solution. The reason for this is in the dilemmas that individual solutions bring. It must be acknowledged that the presence of individual representatives of local communities in the National Assembly also has certain positive effects. This is a multiple emphasis on direct representation of local interests, which in some ways have been particularly poorly represented in the past at national level. The role of the State Council is weak, cooperation with associations of local communities has been underdeveloped, and there has been many times a lack of direct knowledge of local issues at the national level, misunderstanding of the functioning of municipalities, and knowledge of the impact of laws at local level. I mentioned some positive things first on purpose. However, it would be unfair and far simplistic to say that only mayors and mayors represent and exercise local interests in the National Assembly. On the other hand, during the years of the National Assembly, the negatives and disadvantages of the said solutions were increasingly coming to the fore, allowing Members to perform their functions simultaneously at local level, as well as the increasing exercise of opportunities that allow Members to carry out a whole range of other complementary activities. Surely, in the event of the irreconcilability of the function of a Member and the Mayor in the shortest period of time, consideration will also have to be given to the substantial or even complete limitation of this possibility and thus to the full exercise of the duties of a Member in the noble sense of full commitment to the profession and mission, in order to restore the function, perhaps to some extent a stupendous position and to the National Assembly. In view of the incompatibilities of both functions, there are several arguments. It is necessary to separate the state and local levels and to enforce the division of power when the enforcement and legislative authorities are involved. Double-functioning allows and has built-in conflicts of interest, it is an extremely unequal position of individual municipalities, as only a minority between 20 and 30 municipalities are allowed direct influence, through their mayors. The rest of us, but more than 180 are not allowed such privileges. In the event of enforcement, the law was to apply in the first subsequent parliamentary elections, thereby allowing for a transitional period in some way. Everyone could complete their mandates under the conditions under which you or we decided to apply. There would be enough time to prepare political parties and individuals would also have enough time to make their own decisions. I am sure that today's consideration of the proposed change in the spectrum will be highly emotional, but we expect the applicants to take over their minds and this time the proposal will receive the required support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Mandate-Volution Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Dusan Kumr to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	respected colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] At its 12th meeting on 4 November this year, the Commission considered the draft law amending the Law on Members, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. The opinion on the bill was also given by the Government. It follows from the opinion that it supports the proposal for a law. In her opinion, with the proposed amendment to the Law on Members, we are eliminating the interesting incompatibility between the Member and at the same time the mayor of the local community and preventing the conflict between the state and local levels. The Commission was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Ms Zalokar Orazem, representative of the candidates, presented the proposed amendments on behalf of the applicants and explained that in the decision to amend the law they had followed in particular the constitutional principle of the division of power, under which the independence of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government and the independence and independence of local self-government were stressed. Many different opinions were expressed in the debate following the additional explanation of the bill, from the fact that for the fourth time we have been discussing this issue and it would be time to make a different decision as set out in the law so far, and that the proposal for amendments to the law has been made more or less for political reasons than for substantive reasons, until the proposal that this problem of incompatibility is possible and must be resolved as part of the reorganisation or the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia. The members of the Commission who supported the proposal for a law on the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions were, in their argument, based on the constitutionally defined function of a Member as defined in Article 82 of the Constitution and which establishes the fundamental status of a Member. So the Member is a representative of all the people. On this basis, the law also defined the professional function of a Member in relation to Article 3 of the Constitution, which provides for the division of power. And since the current solution constitutes a conflict with the principles enshrined in the Constitution, the potential for conflicts of interest and the unequal position of the municipalities is the result. The privileges of those municipalities with the mayor of parliament are the full exercise of the parliamentary and mayoral functions and so on. While the members of the Commission, which did not support the proposed amendments, considered that this was not a conflict of interest, but that there was little or no conflict. That the dual function of a member of the parishioner is an added value, which strengthens and enriches the work of the National Assembly because the mayors are more armed with problems and situations on the ground than other Members. In short, the proposal for the non-compatibility of a Member's function to perform functions in local authorities is too strong and should therefore be limited only to the incompatibilities of managing the mayor's functions in the municipal municipalities. The majority of the members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission supported the proposed amendment of the law and supplemented it so that Members could not perform any functions in the local community bodies. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission then voted on both articles of the bill amending the Law on Members together and adopted it. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of the report submitted to you by the Mandate-Electorial Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the introductory explanation of the opinion, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Members! The Government supports the proposal for amendments to the Law on Members tabled by the coalition parties in Parliament. The proposed amendment to the Law on Members will remove the interest incompatibilities and prevent a conflict of interests between the state and local levels. The Government also assesses that the proposed deadline for the entry into force of the amendments to the law, i.e. after the 2012 elections, as proposed, is appropriate as the conditions for the exercise of the post of Member or Mayor will be known in advance. Our justification, which we have already given you, is based on the urgent separation of state and local levels, government regulation on a functional, organisational and even personal basis, which is certainly linked to the organisation of the authority relating to relations between the state and local levels. In our view, the principle of the division of power, which highlights the independence of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, the principle of decentralisation of the authorities on which the independence of local self-government is actually based, and the principle of representative democracy, which underlines the relationship of representatives of the people, holders of sovereign rights, is to the people themselves. All of these principles, as provided for in our Constitution, are, of course, to require the establishment of an effective system of brakes and balances between the institutions of different functions of authority, which will in practice establish an amended Article 10 of the Law on Members. Finally, the prohibition of combining the functions already held by the holders of the executive function of local self-government and Members as representatives of the legislative branch of government is also based on the adopted documents, including the Resolutions on the Prevention of Corruption adopted by the National Assembly in 2004. It points out that it wants to avoid the contradiction between the wider social interest and the local interest. The Council of Europe also recommends that in countries such legal frameworks be established that prevent multiple functions at different levels of the executive and legislative branches of government. This amendment, which was tabled by the four coalition members, was accompanied by a legislative procedure marked'mission impossible'. The government adds, if the Slovenian football team, the dream team, so the mission succeeded, the government here announced result 1:0, we are confident that the dream team will be members of the coalition parties SD, DeSUS, LDS and Zares [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Peace in the hall or in the stadium. Peace in the hall and in the stadium.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	I did the same thing. [[...]] And the government is also predicting the novel's proposal as it was announced at the event that I described.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Dear President! A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague. About this dream team, I'd say it's more of a dream team than a dream team, but whatever. In the opposition and the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already practically the entire mandate of this government and this coalition to note that we should take priority in dealing with the consequences of the financial and economic crisis by reviving and reviving the Slovenian economy, by restructuring the Slovenian economy, by providing people with a decent salary and a decent pension. Unfortunately, however, the lack and dream of this team on the subject and on the table is a very often-conceived proposal that wants to divert attention, which wants to hire and mirror Members with topics that are really second-class themes at this time. And this coalition proposal is a completely second-class topic at this point, which is intended to hire us all together in order to deal with it. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party will not fall for this and you will probably be a little disappointed at the scope of our debate, at least as far as the content is concerned. So, I am not saying that this area of compatibility between government and local level officials does not need to be regulated. This needs to be arranged, but it needs to be arranged in a comprehensive manner, but you have reached the most neurological point where you actually wanted to hit only one segment and thus divert attention. For example, why did you not address the issue of the compatibility of the Minister with the ownership of the company receiving the money from the invitation to tender from the contents that the same Ministry is issuing and distributing? I have in mind a very specific person, Mr Golobic. It is known that the Minister has silenced his ownership of a company that owns a Slovenian company, which, last but not least, is a potential recipient of money from tenders that the same ministry shares. Do you not feel that this area should also be regulated and that the limit of compatibility, incompatibility, conflict of interest should be drawn here? I think that much earlier than drawing a distinction between a member of the congregation and a member of the municipal council of a congregation somewhere in the Slovenian countryside. In fact, this proposal is actually absurd. I would also somehow understand that the key ambition of this proposal is to separate, in a way, an executive role at local level and a legislative role at national level, which I would still understand, but I cannot understand in any way that it wishes to prohibit or prevent the management of the same or legislative functions at local and national level. This is the absurdity of this proposal and I am also offered an answer on the palm of my hand why this proposal is absurd. Because you want the proponents themselves not to be accepted, you have so absurdly extended this original proposal of yours and this original ambition of yours. We have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party and our support for this law will depend very much on your support for this amendment. Therefore, I think, a respected coalition, a respected dream team, start dealing with really real problems, the most pressing, burning problems in this country, please stop burdening this Parliament with second-rate themes and save the people who are at the brink of survival, who have taken care of their existence and for their children in the future, for the pensioners, allow these people through economic growth to live decently in this country and stop dealing with second-class topics.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that we have put a matter or issue into the procedure of Members, leaders of the parliamentary groups and not the Government. And I also appreciate that the fact that we are dealing with another topic in Parliament does not mean that this government and this coalition are not actively dealing with what my colleague was talking about. I think that this is simply an inappropriate designation and that it would be better if, as the President of the Government has already said to him, as the former Minister of Economic Affairs asked himself a few questions about what his role was and what he was doing in the previous term. I must also say that I demand, Mr Vizjak, because you have spoken as you have spoken, I demand that you present and tell us on which state tenders Ultra is at any time, where, Mr Vizjak, listen to when, where and at what state invitation Ultra has received any funds from the State. I hope you will present this information today and at this session, or I will accuse you of being a liar. When and at what invitation did Ultra get any euro from this country? In the Group of Members, we have indeed been among those who have sought to make it possible to enforce, by amending the Law on Members, the incompatibilities of the performance of all functions at local level - mayoral, sub-district and councilmen with the function of Member. Our ambitions were and are even wider. We are committed to substantially or completely restricting other options that allow Members to carry out other complementary activities up to one-fifth of their working time. In doing so, we are aware that this is a relatively radical position and that, at the moment, we also have in our parliamentary group Members, who are mayors, as well as those who carry out other activities. But in doing so, our view lies in the future and in the position of a Member who is increasingly losing sight of its importance, reputation, dedication and mission, which is also accompanied by the divisiveness between several functions and other activities carried out by Members in their working hours. That is why, in the event of the incompatibilities of the parliamentary function and of functions at the local level, we will endeavour to limit as soon as possible other possibilities for additional activities, since such an increase as has been detected in recent years has certainly not been the aim and purpose of those who have made this possibility, as - I stress - an exception, established. Undoubtedly, in the case of dual-functioning, there are also a number of other anomalies, there is an interesting incompatibility and an integration of the conflict of interests between the state and local levels, which we all, who have already been in such a dual-functioner, are well aware of. The principle of power-sharing, decentralisation of power and the principle of representative democracy, which underlines the commitment of Members to all citizens, and in certain cases the mayor could prefer only the interests of his own environment. And last but not least, it's almost uniform in the inadequacy of double-functioning, too. As we follow the meeting of the National Assembly, this often seems more like a village community than a parliament. Thus, Dr. Saš Zagorc identified his view of our work days ago in the debate on amendments to the Law on Members, who was one of the greatest experts on the issue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	I'd like to have your attention in the hall. Really.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	to an over-emphasized local component, which he believes is dominant in the National Assembly. [[...]] That is how the profession sees and assesses us, and recalls the important constitutional principle that we Members are bound and accountable to all citizens, which in the case of dual functions can also be threatened. It also claims that functions at national and local level are so different in their purpose and objectives that they cannot be performed at the same time. The necessity of incompatibilities in the performance of functions is pointed out and recommended by many other institutions. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The conflict of interest in this case is pointed out by the Constitutional Court, in the Council of Europe it seems unacceptable to perform both functions, and incompatibilities are also recommended by the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption and the Anti-Corruption Commission. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	The Honorable President. I was appalled that you had double criteria for warning Members and Members of Parliament. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem spoke to me, asked me, and actually suggested that I present certain data. In such cases, you have always warned Members not to argue with another representative representing the Group's position. You have double standards, that's incorrect of all and you've lost about one level in my, what I'd say, a drawer of the reputations of the presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I hope I can get this level back. However, I would certainly say that I did not interrupt you when you went beyond the darkness and principles of other things, so I did not interrupt the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem. All Members and Members, when representing the position, please once again and remind me that they present the position in particular and that they leave statements or debates which do not have a direct link with the matter we are talking about. I give the floor to Mr Anton Urh, who will present his position on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Dear Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary. Honourable Members, honourable Members, including mayors and mayors. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the concept underpinned by the proposal for a law before us, as the DeSUS programming direction is also going in the direction of separation of functions. However, we cannot provide uniform support to the bill, so we will vote on our own conscience. The proposal does not have our majority support. On the proposal for a law amending the Law on Members, the Group of Members proposes that Article 10 of the current law should be amended so that Members could no longer act as Members and Mayors and Mayors in the local community at the same time. With the proposed amendment to the Law on Members, the interests of the MP and the mayor of the local community and the conflict of interests between the state and local level should be eliminated. The proposed deadline for the application of the amended law is 2012 after the elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a reasonable time for us to adopt amendments to the law, as it is our assessment that the conditions for the performance of the duties of Member or Mayor will be known in advance. The proposed amendment of the law is also justified by the constitutional mandate in which Members represent the interests of all citizens, but this interest may be compromised by the exercise of a dual function of some Members. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also stressed the avoidance of conflicts of interest by deciding that there is no anti-constitutional regime for the incompatibility of functions between tasks and functions at national and local level. In the case of an incompatibilities of a local function, the Court stated by carrying out work in the State authorities that the third paragraph of Article 37b of the Law on Local Self-Government is based on the provision of Article 144 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which instructs the State authorities to monitor the legality of the work of local authorities. Article 140, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the State shall also exercise control over the appropriateness and expertise of local authorities on matters transferred to local authorities. The implementation of those constitutional provisions requires that supervision be exercised impartially and independently. It is certainly important that such supervision is carried out by a person who does not perform functions in the municipal authorities at the same time. The DeSUS Group will vote on its conscience. I wonder who in this country is afraid of mayors and mayors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the SLS Group will be presented by Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. The incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions have been dealt with several times in the current mandates of the National Assembly. Many have even heard many doubts about the constitutionality of existing legislation, which later proved to be not true. While we agree in the Slovenian People's Party that the existing regime is not the most optimal, in the given circumstances, when the second level of local self-government is not yet established in the Constitution, it is necessary, according to our assessment. So far, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done nothing in the direction of establishing the provinces, towards decentralisation of Slovenia and coherent regional development. Moreover, it seems to be doing exactly the opposite and strengthening the centralisation of Slovenia. Therefore, in the SLS, it is recalled that mayors and other municipal officials are also members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a guarantee that people and their local problems will be heard and represented at national level. Those Members, who are both mayors or other municipal officials, are well aware of the problem of the local community and, as a result, can also represent the interests common to all local communities in this work in the National Assembly. Of course, we strongly oppose the fact that an individual mayor, as a member of the National Assembly, would act solely in the interest of his own congregation. For greater rationalisation, for faster and even development of the Republic of Slovenia and the local environment, the current regime is fully acceptable. If we were to assume a situation in which there would be no mayor in the National Assembly, in our firm belief the National Assembly would make a number of decisions in its work that would be contrary to the interests of the people. Recent experience has shown that it is those Members, who are mayors or other municipal officials, who have often pointed out those solutions in the draft laws that pose a danger to the decline of municipalities and local lives. However, what the municipalities have contributed to the more even development of Slovenia, I believe that there is no need to speak in particular. Dear colleagues and colleagues, do not be afraid of municipal officials in the National Assembly, because they have extensive experience with the reality on the micro-level of our environment, which they can benefit from with their experiences and their positive energy in the enforcement of the legislative branch of power and the lives of people in all our Slovenian municipalities. To those dual officials who are unable to work, we are not suggesting that they withdraw from one of the functions as soon as possible. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that in the end, the electorates and voters are the ones who decide who will be the mayor, the MP, who will be the municipal councilor. And if the electorate decides that their mayor will also be an MP they're right in the end, voters usually never fail. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will vote, as it were, against the proposed amendment of the law. We stress, however, that this dilemma needs to be thoroughly examined in the adoption of provincial legislation and the introduction of provinces, while at the same time considering the competence of the Council of State or the composition of that State body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Hello, everybody. In previous mandates, the Slovenian National Party has introduced a practically identical law three times and we did not go through, we did not come because you were mostly against it. I also hear today mainly from the various mayors who are in pain to lose any extra money that falls in their pocket, that this law needs to be broken, that it is not supported, and even in government parties, that I see strikes that, for their own benefit, will vote against it for the sake of their own ass. The fact is that we have more than 210 municipalities in Slovenia, and we would like all the mayors to sit here and share state money, but we would forget about all the others who are not mayors or not residents of their municipalities. It's about wickedness, it's about complete corruption, when you don't care what's wrong with the country just to fill your pockets. And in the Slovenian National Party, we will be happy to support this law. Three times we've tried to get him through, now the coalition has taken the initiative, and with its own "lavreate" somehow looked through and tried to pick up the dots, even though there is something populist here, because it is necessary for voters to raise their own customer ratings, but nothing to do with it. The fact is that it is an important law and that it must be adopted. It would make sense, however, to settle other matters concerning Members. If ministers can have their own companies with which they operate and operate, why can't MPs have them? Let us settle this in one of the following laws, so that we Members will at least be equal with ministers or with some ministers from the coalition government. I think it would also make sense here to look a little over the border and also to address the issue of the immunity of Members we do not have. The MPs here can tell the whole truth about the pay phone and we are punished for this truth, without being prosecuted, we do not go to jail, but I can go to civil prosecution for insulting the good name of a thief and then we can go to court and pay well. We know the cases of former Members who almost failed because, despite the fact that everything they said was true here, they were convicted in court of profaning a good name for which a person is asked if it was a good name when he was proven a crime and yet these Members had to pay the money. We also now have some Members who are being sued by gentlemen, even though it has been proven that these gentlemen have cheated and have not acted in favour of the country. This should also be settled. Do not let journalists run the whole matter here in Slovenia and journalists determine what Member is allowed and what Member is not allowed. Our media is at the bottom, the fact is that we have quite a few media houses and not just media houses, including their attachments, what I know, say 7 days and Mr. Lawrence and similar things that spit over long and over and over, of course - are protected. Journalists are protected even if they spit on people. The MP who tells the truth can go to court, and nobody can, because you're here in the National Assembly, too, most people don't hope to set up this thing, so that no journalist, some writer, would say, "Look at the MPs, they're "crambling" their position." Therefore, it is all the more important that we adopt this law, that here, where we can really show that we must work in the interests of the State to adopt this law. Once again, we will be happy to support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Those mayors are just going to somehow charge each other money in a different way. As I know, they know that very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I would just like to emphasise and ask you to choose your words when you speak of your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	[[...]] [[From the hall.]] What words should I choose?Oh, my God! [[...]] Do you want me to speak English?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to ministers, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, today we are faced with an interesting subject that is more likely to stem from some personal and political thinking than with important content. We talked about this law extensively and in detail at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The story certainly is not black and white, the story is not going to look unilaterally, of course it has many positive and negative properties. The Group of Members has submitted a law on amendments to the Law on Members for consideration, where we propose that article 10 of the Law on Members be amended so that Members can no longer act as Members and Mayors in the local community at the same time. We have also examined the opinions of various experts in detail, and we must say that in the majority part of this story, with these views, these two important functions for this country may be agreed. Throughout, even at the time of public hearing, coalition coordination, we have stressed in the LDS Club that this is not yet enough in this law to make it necessary to do more. However, the basic position is that, of course, this is decided today, and such a decision will also be made by Members in accordance with our conviction and conscience, as always. The proposed amendment to the Law on Members will remove the interesting incompatibility between the Member and the mayor of the local community, and certainly prevent a conflict of interest between the state and local levels. We estimate that the proposed deadline for the entry into force of the amended law is also appropriate after the elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012, as the conditions for the performance of the post of Member and the mayor may be known in advance. We also base our position on the required separation of the state and local levels, government regulation by functional, organisational and also by personal salary, which is linked to the organisation of the authority relating to the relationship between the state and local levels. When checking incompatibility at local level, members of municipal councils, mayors and mayors with the functions of national authorities, it is necessary to take into account several important, constitutional principles, but at the same time to answer the question of how local interests will then be represented. One of the important, urgent reflections is certainly this reorganisation of the State Council, so that in the State Council and with the establishment of the provinces, because also in the provinces, an important, responsible function will be given to the mayors, this will be arranged in a uniform and comprehensive manner. I am responsible for ensuring that, of course, this cannot be and cannot be a mistrust or criticism of the work of Slovenian mayors. Unlike Members of Parliament, Slovenian mayors have been elected directly. They directly surrounded our names and surnames and, of course, we are responsible for this by our work, position and status. However, we are always prepared and Members to consider whether the benefits of separating these functions are essential and important to the country. An important principle is also the principle of the division of power, which highlights the autonomy of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. An important principle in this country is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and must also be a principle of decentralisation on which the independence and independence of local self-government is based. [[...]] An important principle, which is also taken into account in this law, is the principle of representative democracy, which underlines the commitment of the representatives of the people to the institution of sovereign rights, which is the people themselves. All of these important principles are, however, to require the establishment of an effective brake system and a balance between the operators of different functions, which will in practice establish an amended Article 10 of the Act. As I have already said, we support the matter in principle at the Liberal Democracy Club. However, we will decide by our conscience, depending on how we assess whether or not the law solves all problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister. It is not the first time that a change of law seeks to eliminate the current compatibility of the mayor and the MP in one person. The current proposal, in the form of an updated proposal for a law, provides for an arrangement whereby a Member may not act as a member of the local community. Incompatibilities are therefore extended to members and members of the municipal councils as well as to the parishioners and the parishioners, of course. Opinion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Of course, they're shared this time, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Peace in the hall! Excuse me, Mr. Contic. Dear and esteemed colleagues of Jelinčič, Sayovic and Friend, please peace in the hall! Please, Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Of course, opinions are shared this time too. Comments and concerns are raised on the integrity of the issue of incompatibility of functions and conflicts of interest. We have proposals to narrow the exercise of the parliamentary function only to fundamental activity and not to allow other obligations to be carried out. Further consideration is given to the way that I would allow, as an example, the professions, medical work, but without a reward. Others would limit incompatibilities only to the mayors of the municipalities, so we also have an amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I hope that this is not just an excuse to later reject this amendment, which would separate the mayors of the municipal municipalities from the other mayors - we also have mayors of large municipalities who are completely comparable to the municipal municipalities - that this will not become a reason not to fully support the law, but somewhere within me I feel this connection. In the past, there have been several suggestions to regulate incompatibility in different laws. Again and again, there were reasons for proving the need to be regulated in another law in full and at the right time. It was never the right time, and it was never the right marriage. Let's face it, we will only find a suitable moment with difficulty to assess in Parliament that the right time has come. However, the reasons for incompatibilities are not to be sought in a more or less active manner, not to say to the concerned work of the Member concerning the exercise of the parliamentary function. It is also difficult for Members - we attach only the designation of representatives of narrow local interests to the mayors, with the exception of other colleagues and colleagues. Each of us comes from an environment where, despite the constitutional provision that we are Members of all the people and we are not bound by any instructions, we have to acknowledge that. Taking into account the arguments, advocates and opponents of the proposed incompatibilities in the Group of Social Democrats, we give priority to the arguments that favour incompatibilities. We are convinced that it is also in the interest of protecting local self-government that it is necessary to eliminate unequal treatment of mayors. The existing law, contrary to the principle of equality, favours non-professional mayors compared with professionals. The non-professional mayors are also able to do something else, and this will have to be regulated in another law. As co-proposers of the amendments, we agree that it is necessary to define the incompatibility of the function at national and local level. The national assembly shall be composed of 90 Members and Members. If we count down the two who belong to the national communities, there are 88 left, but we already have 210 congregations in the country. My colleagues and colleagues will certainly present their views in the debate, some even very visible, which will not be unanimous and will be able to see the differences that will be apparent in the vote to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 11. 2009 In doing so, I inform you that the amendments of the SLS Group to Articles 1 and 2 have not been tabled in accordance with the purpose of Article 3(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and therefore they will not be discussed by the General Assembly, and I have also informed the Group of Members. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The Honorable President. In fact, for the first time in this mandate, we are faced with the fact that the President of the National Assembly decides which amendments the National Assembly will consider and which it does not. The practice that, in this mandate, you have also voted on certain matters, such as the Slovenian Act around the world or, say, the Income Act, where the coalition acted in a diametric opposite way to the intent of the law, the law ran out of articles and fell and there was no protest. The President of the National Assembly, in one word, did not warn the coalition that such conduct was unacceptable. In this case, when this amendment has been tabled, which is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because there is no one in that country who could limit what the Group of Members can submit and even if the amendment is diametrically opposite or slightly different in its regulation of content as envisaged by the Applicant, this is not a reservation that this amendment would be rejected, nor does any of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure allow anyone to act as you have said. Any decision on any proposal submitted correctly in accordance with the forecasting and content statement may also be diametrically opposed. This is also probably the intention of the amendments to be tabled, can be improved, can be worsened, but can also delete the matter, the intention is to decide on this by vote. And I propose that, honourable President of the National Assembly, you suspend the meeting in 10 minutes and then re-examine the business provisions and inform us on the basis of which provision you have adopted this determination. This one has no basis in the Rules of Procedure. I propose a suspension of the session for 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	On what basis do you propose to interrupt or which article do you want? [[...]] Because I don't see the need to interrupt this session and I'm not going to interrupt it. Why do you want the session suspended?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Dear President, the Rules of Procedure state that the Presidents may, in order to clarify certain provisions, consider that this is Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, may suspend the meeting. And to clarify these reasons and to clarify these matters, I suggest only a short 10-minute interruption. I propose this so that these things, which have also continued to be discussed in the Rules of Procedure, can then be decided on. Neither the President of the National Assembly nor any other chairman can order without any professional service warning that the amendment is irrelevant can. And I propose an interruption in order to be explained on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure you have taken such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	The interruption is possible before the decision is made. I can explain this to you without interruption, and I will. Procedural word Anton Anderlich, then Jakob Presecnik, procedural and procedural Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Mr President, I simply suggest that you also avoid these breaks and others to withdraw this remark to the amendment tabled by the SLS Group, because something is not right for the purpose of this paragraph and so on. That someone proposes deleting an article because he disagrees with this article and because he thinks that the current arrangement is better is absolutely correct. This is really something unusual, and it's the first time we've faced this. As far as this mandate is concerned, not only are the amendments not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but they are contrary to anything else but this amendment. Therefore, you have a simple option, if you do not interrupt the meeting, and then really call the business committee and let it be clear. Because someone is saying that something is not meant to be a provision of one article, it is simply not possible. However, you have the opportunity to simply say that the amendment is in the debate and will show, through the vote, what anyone thinks about this amendment and the assembly will decide in the end. This seems to me to be much more democratic and correct and in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure than someone simply says, this is not in line with the purpose of the provision and so on. That provision in Article 129, you know what it means.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Procedurally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In our firm conviction, the Group tabled these two amendments in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: "With the amendment, an amendment may be proposed to amend or supplement an individual article or the title of the law. The amendments may also propose new articles containing solutions based on the objectives and principles of the bill proposal, or the deletion of an individual article." The parliamentary group can propose anything it wants, but we have the services of the National Assembly that give an opinion on the amendments, and the Government can give them. And I suggest you withdraw your decision. Some of these are similar in this mandate you have already adopted completely past the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest that we stop this practice and do what is stated in the Rules of Procedure. Precisely according to the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. Personal interpretations, a personal attitude towards the candidates, will only be reflected in the vote. And it is not right that anyone withdraws/prevents the operation of any parliamentary group or individual in the National Assembly. We are here to propose to improve, to correct, to delete, to complement and not to give something, and then some authority will decide, and you cannot do so. The Rules of Procedure are clear, this provision is set out in Article 129 in the third paragraph and it is right that it is also respected by the President and, in particular, by the President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I must say that it is precisely this third paragraph of Article 129 that both professional services are referred to, as well as myself, when I wrote to the Group of Members that these two amendments are irrelevant because they are not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the content. "The amendment may be proposed to amend or supplement an individual article or the title of the law. The amendment may also propose a new article containing solutions based on the objectives and principles of the bill or the deletion of an individual article." If you delete an individual article here, both articles of the law, then you have no law. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] but it's a deletion. [[...]] [[...]] Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and, above all, colleague Anderlich. You are the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, but do not explain the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly. You don't explain it at a meeting of the National Assembly, it's explained at a meeting of the National Assembly by the chairman. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and calling on the College to consult on this. However, I certainly think that the application of this Article in the manner you propose is inconsistent with the meaning and purpose of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	The President of the National Assembly informed me that he expected the meeting to continue at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session. I'm sorry it took a little longer to break up. After consulting the College and weighing the various options, having regard to the fact that this is the 60th Article, which provides for a decision by the President on the application of the Rules of Procedure, I have decided that, in my original decision - that the amendments to Article 1 and Article 2 of the SLS Group are not tabled in accordance with the provisions of Article 129(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they are irrelevant and will not be discussed by the National Assembly. I would certainly have made a different decision if it were only a shadow of doubt that this decision would have reversed the will of the parliamentary group to express its will and to discuss the law and decide on the law, but that is not the case, because if it voted against the law, of course their will through the amendment will be realized. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will not support the proposed amendment. The implementation of the amendment would mean that only the exercise of the mayoral function in cities would be questioned, compared with the function of the Member State. My starting point for the incompatibilities that I am advocating is whether the exercise of the mayoral and parliamentary functions in all municipalities is appropriate or not. Not for mayors - Members to do bad things, but not for them to see any corruption, but simply to think that the executive and legislative branch of power in relation to our Constitution should not be intertwined, but should be separated because it is one of the provisions of the Constitution. Secondly, I think that it is necessary to ensure the equality of all 210 municipalities, and it seems that there will be some which cannot be guaranteed, given that there are some mayors of parliament, but some of them are not, or that most of the municipalities do not have their own. And when we adopted the Constitution, we just defined ourselves and agreed that the Slovenian Parliament is relatively small and that the function of a Member is professional. Whether we are doing it well or not, it should be assessed separately and not be the content of this debate. But these are the reasons why I will not support the amendment. However, I firmly believe that this is one of the issues that would suggest a peaceful and correct debate between us, that it is not at all a question for the functioning of this country, nor for the functioning of Parliament. After all, between 1990 and 1992 we decided in three homes in a terribly complicated way from the old system, only then did we adopt the new Slovenian Constitution and also all the necessary acts of independence, and we had mayors and an equal home in the congregation. And from 1992 until now, we had the same system as we have today in four mandates, but to put it domestically, it hasn't changed or the world has failed to use this term. That is why this is a proper debate, and a debate is needed. I support incompatibilities. I believe, however, that making this a big story, a mutual accusation and a good or bad work of Parliament is hurting all of us. I don't think it's a good idea to start with that, but maybe some other marriage will have another time of such a discussion. I won't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I won't support this amendment either. I don't think this amendment makes any sense. Today, football sports lingo has been used frequently. And let me start with him. All those who think or think you're going to win today I think your victory is going to be more keely. That's what I heard among my colleagues lobbying for it today, if this marriage falls. I don't think there's anyone in this room who thinks this law is going to be passed today. No one. Even the greatest idealists, where I count myself. This marriage was, unfortunately, doomed at the beginning. I think it's a shame we're making a big mistake. A mistake for the future. Why? In 2004, there were 18 mayors in this House to keep me from going too far into the past. In 2008, 24 were elected to the Slovenian Parliament in the parliamentary branch. With this dynamic, 30 will be elected in 2012. This is one third of the Slovenian Parliament. You can watch this one way or another. The mayors will probably feel good, but we're the mayors good and we'll come to Parliament. From the point of view of the Member of Parliament and not the mayors, I wonder what this means for the Slovenian Parliament. I don't think it's any good. I do not agree with those who say that the key problem is that the mayors are overly defending local interests. I think that's right, and I'm defending local interests. I also advocate the interests of the environment in which I was elected. And that's right. It is not true and it is not right to share the mayors and Members with, I will say, the lazy mayors of parliament and the slightly more working mayors of Members, because we also have Members who are more and more Members who are less working, and we have Members in previous mandates who had almost 100% absence. I don't think it's possible to throw all people in the same basket. I would like to point out some other things in the debate on this amendment. The argument of some who objected to incompatibilities was that this would violate the right to vote and be loved, I apologize, but this is a kind of stupidity. No one shakes and takes no one's right to be loved. Any adult citizen of the Republic of Slovenia may be elected. If he's running for mayor, you just have to meet some other conditions. It's just about choosing someone to decide whether he's mayor or an MP. And it's not some personal matter that we're opposed to, the government, the coalition, and that's not the whole point, but that those people who are Members and Mayors are in trouble. It's simply that this is incompatibilities, there's nothing personal about it. Incompatibilities in the fact that a person, a mayor - a Member within himself, combines legislative and executive power. Yeah, it's that simple. All the other stories you tell aren't black and white. It's true. They're in the middle of something. It's a conflict of interest. It's so simple. It has been said that today is not the right time for this subject. Yeah, when's the time for that? If you ask me, we should make such a law ten times more, or 20 times, if necessary, until it is adopted in this House. I can't imagine a parliament where half the mayors will sit. I'm sorry, I can't imagine him. In this House there are good mayors, but I think I am very honest that in the long term this is bad for the Slovenian Parliament. Not because you will defend local interests, as I say, but because I do not see such a Parliament. I very much appreciate the opinion of one of my colleagues sitting here behind me, but the mayor also said frankly that if we are to be honest and honest, both functions cannot be performed together very well unless you are super people. I mean, a little self-criticism. I know the mayors are extremely burdened. This is clear to me, and we often cannot come to the meeting because others have obligations and I understand that. See, this law and today's debate should be based on this basic assumption. That's the assumption of incompatibilities. And there were other amendments, if you could, but maybe you'd agree to such a marriage if there were other things involved. Therefore, if Members should not also be teaching and so on. Okay, I don't have a problem with that. But please. It's not the same, it's not the same! We are talking about the fact that a person within himself is bringing together a legislative and executive branch of power. I don't know how many times it has to be said. If we go and spread other things, it's right to know why we're doing this, how far we're going to go, and if you ask me, we could go really wide. I don't have any problems with that, but it seems to me that the key problem is, I'm sorry that some people can't see any further than their noses. I think it is right that, once for a change, we are not just thinking about our own interests, but let us also think about the future and no one is taking anything. It's only about the right to choose, the right to make a decision. And I think it's right for people to decide whether to be one or the other. And, as it is said, the basis is incompatibilities. Not to mention, then, the representative mandate of Members, the participation or adoption of a member of the parishioner, who is then obliged to enforce it himself and so on. I'll leave it to my colleagues to make other arguments, but to end, that's all. It really saddens me that I heard the famous one: "We generally support this, but we will all vote in our conscience." It would be nice if we were all in. But I know you won't. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] It would be nice to listen to each other once for a change and operate on arguments. [[...]] I don't think this is the time to be offended. You know, I could wear some T-shirts today, too, but you know, MPs, endangered MPs, which are a little bit less, and they're obviously going to be less and less, even because they don't have male colleagues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	some basic cultures of listening to others when they speak. [[...]] And I'm not going to, because I think I know enough words to say, and I also think I've made some arguments to support such a law. But as I say, I will oppose the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Znidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. At our party's congress, we have decided to propose the adoption of a law that will separate or regulate this matter to the compatibility of the mayor and the MP so that this will no longer be possible. I am therefore surprised that we have not been able to make a single decision on this and perhaps not all of our colleagues have read the congressional document. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	You'll get away with laughing when our president sanctions all those like me if I don't support any of the decisions of the world that at such a democratic standard means that it applies when it doesn't concern me. I want to say the following. I don't support this amendment. Not because he wants to separate the position of Member and Mayor of the City, but because he does not include all the mayors, all the municipalities. I will support this law because it is impossible to accept the fact that the mayors' lobby in Parliament is clearly rooting for its interests and thus remaining all other municipalities in a subordinate position, in an unequal position, against the legislator. Not only could there be a good thing when it comes to laws, but when it comes, for example, to the budget-adopted coalition, then certainly those MPs - mayors, for example, are more likely to achieve a matter for their municipalities in the coalition. It is clear that in the account of everyone else, especially when it comes to the limited resources of our budget and our country. And from this point of view, it is necessary to make a decision sooner or later, not this amendment, which will prevent this dual function. In this sense, I myself make a congressional decision and stick to the party's agenda. I wonder if this will be followed by our President and he will impose sanctions against those who excite our programme when it is necessary to apply it. And they only notice that in someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. This will be within the internal discussions of the party, I believe it is done. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary. If everything were to be as it should be under the Constitution and the law, then now there would be ministers in our ranks: Mr Golobič, Matthew Lahovnik and others. We should sit because the people elected them as Members. And if the legislative and executive branch of power is compatible, then let them come here and work here and then go to work as ministers. It would be interesting to hear the answer of all these people, why it seems to him that he is only a minister and does not work as a Member. The question is, what would you say? Probably the first answer in three seconds: that's impossible. There's no difference. Member, nice or bad, whether it suits us or not, I am the mayor myself, already the second term, and I know that we would be trusted by the people of the third, we are the ones who must realize that the legislative and executive branches of power are incompatible and dot. Or we can change everything together and let the ministers sit at the meetings of the committees and the National Assembly between us. Besides, I'd like to make one more case. It's a wonderful example of a parishioner. Let's just say that the MP is a member of the department and also has the function of being a saint as a mayor. And it's even more interesting when the mayor's gone, and he's a mayor, an MP, a saint, and a mayor. Let's be honest and honest and let's just say it can't be that way and it can't be that way. Come in. If it does, but if it is later, this law will finally be passed, we will finally have leverage to resolve the issue of the State Council, which is today nothing debilitating or insultingly disabled amphibian. We have a National Council in which the interests of local communities should also be represented. But in the content and power of the State Council, colleagues and colleagues are powerless. And then it should be said that this state of the State Council does not need and will save a lot of money in these times of crisis, or that everyone, including local interests, will move to the State Council, which will receive the status of the second home legislative branch in that country. Let him be called a Senate, to be called anyhow with all responsibilities and rights, and there let all mayors, even though members of the Council of State, have the same right to decide on open issues. The arrangements in Europe are different. I am alone every six months in the COSAC meetings, i.e. representatives of European Affairs Committees, in all the countries that are chairing and when we are speaking, believe each time we are also discussing the status of Member and Mayor in individual countries. The most common question that I got in these talks nine times two years ago was 18, 18 times when I introduced myself as a member of this beautiful country of Slovenia and also the mayor, they asked me, "Is it possible?" Is that possible with you? That's right. I am most of the questions, I remember being asked, because in a lot of people, I don't know everyone, I won't have the brains to salt, because I don't know all the countries, so that functions are already legally incompatible because of the legislative separation of the branch of power and there are many other reasons. But there is something and I would be happy to support this amendment in the worst case that we are talking about if it did not continue in that part of 'not to perform professional functions in local authorities'. This is where the proponent made a big kick. However, as a representative of the legislative branch of power, Article 1 made it impossible for the Member to be a representative of the legislative authority in the local community. This is a large lapsus, a large kiks, because a Member adopts and decides on legislation, a municipal councillor adopts and decides on sub-laws, and at the same time a Member as a municipal councilor could also be a large supervisory body. Today, colleagues know that in a number of congregations there are a number of decrees and other illegal acts that are still inconsistent with legal acts. In this case, the function of Member shall be compatible with the function of Municipal Councillor. I don't know why this supplement came here that I don't like. Otherwise, I would support it. And I'll tell you why I would support this amendment. Now that I tell you, colleagues and colleagues, I will now tell you that this law will not be passed today. It's a shame to argue and pretend to be nice and talk to each other, the last to the present, when we already know well in advance that there are so many holes at the time of the decision in the National Assembly that a sufficient majority will not be reached for the adoption of this law. It grieves me that, among the causes, there will be, in particular, those who are proponents and advocates of this law. Except for some exceptions. Maybe I'm an exception, too, to say that I was the first to try to enforce this law in 2004, if I'm not mistaken. And even today, I will gladly and honestly support it to make order in this country, and that all of us who are elected from the electorate, who end up paying us only after four years, all of us, both mayors and Members, will eventually be able to do the work honestly and faithfully, which we are going to do with all the awareness that no one, as a Member, can take the love of my birthplace, and that I will always, as I was the first two years when I was not mayor, look first in the budget for the congregation of Trbovlje and fight for them. Although I was not the mayor, and vice versa, I will always, if I remain only the mayor and work with love for this country, monitor the work of the National Assembly and help the MP from the municipality where I will be the mayor, so that he can work properly on the legislative branch of the cloud, so that it will be easier for me as the mayor on the executive side. So let's be honest and honest. That's right, the function is incompatible. If not, I will make a law, which will require that ministers, as representatives of the executive branch, be Members at the same time, and that they do, if they physically, mentally endure what they should do, and they will see how it goes. We're all the same in the end. Thank you, Mr Anderlich, I don't think it's exactly because it turns out it's not working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I will say that I will not support this amendment, because I would not have made the best law any worse. I support the law in particular because it is at least the first step in the right direction. I also support it, because all coalition Members and Members have committed themselves to the fulfilment of the coalition agreement and the Coalition Treaty states that we will redefine this problem of incompatibilities of functions and that is one of the forms, one of the ways, the possibility, not the best as I repeat it, but it is. I will also support this proposal because I am certainly not overly desirable there, but it does say in the DeSUS programme that I will seek to eliminate the accumulation of political functions, which is unacceptable and that we will propose a change to the law which will determine the incompatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. So, even if I follow what I promised I'll back it up. A few more arguments are that I can talk about this support for a calm soul. When I was running in 2004, I vowed that when the marriage came, if adopted, I would pull myself out of this sequence and leave one of the functions. Most likely, if he were still mayor, he'd still be mayor and not an MP. The next argument is that we voted on a similar law in 2005, when the SNS reportedly proposed it for the third time. And then, yes, there were only 18 Members for the adoption of this law, but among them we were three Members. One was Han, the other was Saiovic, and the third was Rezman. Back then, we assured our votes that this incompatibility would still prevail. I think that now I'm going to take the sheet into my hands so I can read some more statistics because I don't remember them all. I think there are smart and valid reasons for us to break this up, because this would prevent what I was talking about earlier: multiplying functions and thus making decisions in one hand. Besides, we have quite a bit of work to do as Members. I can assure you that we are weaker in this regard, including the mayors. Listen, during the 2000 - 2004 term, 1505 EPA documents, the documents we are discussing, were submitted to the National Assembly. You can imagine what a mountain of documents this is. And ask your conscience what we've studied all of this. During the next term, 2,256 EPA documents were submitted. I want to know how much thought there was before deciding what we decide. An average of 564 EPAs per year were discussed in the individual parliamentary group. Now we're only talking about these, not the first time we're preparing them, we're coordinating them, let's say, which is multiplying all of these activities that I'm talking about right now. This year there have been 692 such acts. In the last two months alone, 149. This is such an abundance of work that those who wish to do what is right as a Member or as a Member are said to first read what they are talking about and then speak and vote more than enough work. I believe that these are the arguments that speak of how good it would be if these two functions were separated. I will be able to support this coalition and also the party's commitment. Not all of them, I guess. When I talk about what someone can do to respond to what someone has mentioned as an offer, let those who cannot perform both functions be dismissed. I assure by my own conduct as much as I do that I have probably been more active in this National Assembly and contributed more than many who have only one function but cannot and cannot postpone it. They want only what this law allows, which is legal, but they talk about what brings them additional strength and added benefit. I'll be able to support this marriage even if it goes to me personally, and it'll go to waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Respectable. Two amendments have been tabled to this Article. For reasons which are not understandable to me, without any argument, contrary to Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, it was authoritarianly decided not to discuss this amendment. Those who advised the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are, of course, doing a bear service to this law. Desiring to fear that if this article were not, then there would be no law, they would contribute to a different outcome in the end. This is my firm conviction and these bear services that are being done are, in my opinion, one of the things we should discuss about the law on Members. Can we explain to ourselves here in the house what we're doing and why we're here? And who can be here and under what conditions. Discussions on the compatibility or incompatibility of the functions of the mayor and the Member and other compatibilitys shall be held for as long as possible. I will not tire you of how it was forced that this compatibility became - not because of the mayors, but because of those who sell plant protection products, and the Mandate- volitional Commission gave them permission, those who perform veterinary activities, those who perform the professions and then stuck to the rest. That there will be no mistake - I never thought and I don't even intend to run for mayor. I never thought I'd do 20% of my time, but I'm a pro from the start, and I'm gonna do it until I have a mandate. That is why this debate is none of my business, but I have been conducting all the discussions over the last 20 years on this law and on these various arrangements for this issue. Unfortunately, these discussions come on the agenda only when someone wants to get ahead of a matter and once pulls incompatibilities, the second time he pays, the third time he travels, the fourth time I don't know what and so on. And we're making an impression here, an impression that we're supposed to have. Never - if we can't agree on some things on our own. As I say, I don't care if the mayors- MPs are here, so it doesn't look like I'm throwing the MPs out because I'm not, or that I'm throwing anyone out. Not because of solidarity, but because I know that the principles of this issue are different across many countries. Jacques Chirac was mayor of Paris and a member of Parliament, and then I think even the President of Parliament in France. On the other hand, some have a total ban. Even with us, I am firmly convinced that someone from Osilnica or from Hodosh or wherever he is, as in some other service, can also be a messenger with 300, 400 souls in the congregation. That's why this amendment doesn't even have such a saltless content. She's got something. But I'm not going to back him up because I don't think that's the topic he'd be dealing with. But I'd really like to hear what's going to happen in the second step. If there is any intention to settle these issues, and I am sure that right now, when judges are so much at the expense of Members, when some other features, when things go wrong, they call themselves immediately and say, 'Parliaments, Parliament, because they do nothing, because they have no reputation anyway, and they have no great wages,' I suppose, I don't know who has them. Now is the time to say, dear colleagues, because there are also some laws that are forecasting that Members will be put back clean and regulated by the Government. Never in any country does the Government of the Status of Members regulate it, but Members regulate it or it is the law of the Member State, because it is the law of the house in which we are. Anything's possible with us. I believe that there is a greater conflict of interest between those who work in other, not all, activities when individuals are saints, mayors and so on. But in the beginning, of course, I was against these functions being compatible, so functions that were now supposed to be incompatible and also others, but I was over-voted. Believe it or not, all of these discussions, which were and the results that followed, were due to client accounts. In each election, each party, when it comes to local elections, pressures the mayor there to get more options when it comes to the mayoral elections, pressures the MP to get more in this account. When it's the other way around, the mayors get more. After all, even if I were talking about our client, three out of five, it was obviously mathematics and also agreement between the parties. Left and right: where, who, what, how, to secure certain positions. But this is a deeper discussion than this, that we will now just say, compatible, it is not compatible because it adopts laws here, implements them there and so on. Here he prepares some material conditions through the budget, he has an open door in the ministries, he arranges some things. That's why I think today's discussion is actually fine. To re-examine how powerless we are to settle any issue and if it is intended to regulate or amend the law on Members, because it has to be at other points, you also have instructions. That's the question you wanted to settle in the integrity law. It didn't work. It's gonna go in there again. All right, then. But I mean, because these things aren't going, then we're looking for some kind of debate, and it's only going to be useful to show that we're actually ourselves in here, including the proponents, including the government, we don't know what the best way to do these things. I can vote for the fact that this thing is incompatible. But since I don't want to help you, not "go away," I'm gonna watch you do it. Even because of all these strong arguments, which a lot of people can't handle. I have tried in the past to the maximum, but because I do not want to do this here is not about any solidarity, I will really continue to enjoy some brilliant discussions which convince me only that this amendment, which is in force, because that amendment is not in force, which I stress once again, is not the correct interpretation, but this does not refer to the current President, but we are talking about Article 1 and the only amendment, so that this amendment is, in my opinion, more to allow discussion. If there was no amendment, there would be no discussion and there would be only a vote. But it is only right that the discussion should show itself, as it were, on this amendment. He could also be the one to think about, to discuss, and I am not sure that he does not have his own salt, because being mayor in Ljubljana or on Hodhoš is an essential difference. That's not a big deal. However, I believe that with some other things such as regionalisation and other things, we will probably have this discussion again, and in what way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you. Madam Minister, have you raised your hand, would you like a word? Okay. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Although I have to say, at least there's an atmosphere with me, if not another cloudy one. As my colleague Melita Župevc said, it is highly probable that the marriage will fall. I still hope that he will be accepted. One tiny speck of this hope also gives me the fact that the sun was shining outside. Maybe it'll shine in this hall too. The purpose of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party colleagues has some basis, but in my opinion it has missed the main point on which the bill is based. The basics are understandable. Municipal municipalities are a more demanding project, a more demanding institution, such as small municipalities, and therefore a member of the municipal congregation is supposed to be more busy, less time to carry out his mission. This is logical and from this point of view I understand the proposal of this amendment. Why do I think he missed the core of the marriage? Because this law is not proposed because it would be considered that Members who are also mayors are poorly performing their duties as Members of Parliament or are poorly performing their duties as Mayor. I know quite a few of my colleagues, who are also mayors, very well colleagues in my parliamentary group. I must say that several Members, who are also mayors, are doing above average good and with an average enthusiasm. And some are even above average. But that's not what this is about. It is a principled position and a decision to divide power in this country. And, if the division between the legislative and executive powers applies, then this must cover all Members. Although he could also design his performance by reading his predecessor, Comrade Barovic, because I fully agree with his explanation. If such a division of power does not apply, then why there are no ministers in this Chamber who have also been elected Members. Why? Because there is a division of power. And this must apply to all or none of the executive powers. Such a cocktail, such a mix is not good for our democracy. That's why ministers don't sit in this room. And that's why it's right that the mayors don't sit. No matter how much we appreciate them. Once again, I stress in this National Assembly, as far as their work is concerned, many things are involved. Mayors, thank you very much! There is another problem with this marriage and this amendment. This is the very relationship we have with our colleagues. This is where the story from Bhagavad Gita, from Mahabharate, where Prince Arjuna prepares for war. He rejects the war by himself, but then he finds out that his friends and relatives will be on the other side of the battle, and this prince begins to wonder what the meaning of the war is if he kills friends and relatives in this war. Then Krishna approached him, telling him the following thing. It says that the purpose of his entry into battle is not to kill his friends, relatives, to harm them. But that's his role because he's a prince and he's a warrior and his gift is to go to war and carry out the war as he can. Because it's his drama, no matter what the result is. And that I think is the role of a Member today, because we have to do what is right no matter who's on the other hand, because that's right. Despite the fact that on the other hand there may be some interests that are legitimate, which I understand and will be difficult to define in such a way that perhaps some of my colleagues will understand the voice against them. But there is also a reputation at this point, if we want to, a Member and Members. At this point, we must do what is principled and what is right and it is right to draw the principle of power-sharing in our democratic system to the end of A to Z without exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I will be very brief because I want my colleagues to express their opinion. I will not support this amendment for a simple reason, because at last the mayors of the municipal municipalities are here in the National Assembly. Why should only the mayors of small municipalities be? The parishes of the municipalities have additional burdens, of course we are also regional leaders, because small municipalities are not interested in technology parks, international cooperation, higher education and more. It might therefore be a debate on how to deal with the provinces and how to deal with the National Assembly. It's very telegraphic to change things and do things differently. I very much agree with my colleague Barovic and also with Mr Rezman, and I will not repeat their words. I'd like to say the following. I feel like I'm not happy in this part of my life. I've been away from home for eight days. We're having a city council meeting today. Yeah, you don't care. I can go. But I can't perform two functions, I can't. And I can't be missing here, and I shouldn't be missing home. Why should I resign if the electorate has chosen me? I think it's necessary to be rational and admit that two tasks honestly cannot be performed for a simple reason because there is so much material to be studied here. Or I say "flancaria", as has already been said here today, insults of mayors, meaningless words have been made here, entire sentences, we listen to nonsense for hours. Because he doesn't read the material because he talks about nonsense. Literally. I hope to afford it, and I'm charged with 300 an hour. Anyone who isn't, he can do everything he wants. I know that the mayor of the municipality with 2,000 inhabitants, we can call Primorci "pokokola" every citizen and citizen every night and he is a winner. If we want to work seriously on projects, on fund-raising, on the development of this country, then I cannot be in two professions. That's why I don't think this thing is compatible. Besides what the law says, which has been said a lot. I cannot therefore vote in favour of this amendment, under no circumstances, because we all have this option or no one. If not all of us, then it is better that the small mayors do not participate in Parliament as well and that we transform this State Council, which is indeed for our own good. Every day, I get invited to classes, meetings, discussions. If that's the purpose of the State Council, then I don't think that's the right way. I'm sorry I got upset about your mockery because you're capable of everything. And normally, you tabled an amendment because you don't have a single municipality for the mayor. And that's your painful wound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you should be correct, because some Members of the SDS have crazy problems when their colleagues speak on this page and make grimas and have primitive comments. I can't tell you anything else. If you are Vice-President of the National Assembly, I ask you to warn these Members as well. If they have problems listening to or understanding material, that is their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	I cannot make such a procedural proposal, so I do not think that this was a procedural proposal. The word has Mrs. Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. For this reason, I advocate the incompatibilities of any function at the level of the local community, regardless of the size of the congregation and regardless of the distance of the congregation. Problems arising from presence can also be related to how long it takes for someone to come to another function. And there's a lot more I could say. I speak from personal experience of how voters think about things. When I look at the majority opinion of the respondents on compatibility, the vast majority of people feel that these two functions are incompatible. Legal arguments are also on the part of those who defend the incompatibilities of the function. After all, it is also a constitution that speaks of the separation of individual branches of government. And this is now justified by the right, active and passive electoral right, has nothing to do with it, because it is up to the individual to judge, and not all have the courage of my fellow Member, Mirko Brulc, who could say that the matter is not only the presence at meetings of the National Assembly, in plenary sessions, but also the presence at working bodies. And not only the presence, but also active cooperation. I've had my own experience of being a member of the city council. The environment from which the Member or Member comes expects the Member to work in the interest of the environment which it has chosen, only that Members from smaller environments have more opportunity to show the results of their work than Members from larger backgrounds, because they are not alone and not always equally recognised as mayors or Members from smaller environments. That is why I support all the solutions that the Law on Members provides for solutions that will help the reputation of a Member's post. And I'm sure incompatibilities are a step towards that. That is why, of course, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs Zalokar Orzam has spoken as a candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The amendment that we have before us is, in fact, one way that will cause more problems, more problems and in some ways only deepens discrimination on several points that I will talk about. The fact that the mayors and the mayors are sitting in the National Assembly is not really the biggest problem in this country. I agree with that. It's a problem. Like so many others, it's a problem. The problem is that in some ways it is also a matter of decency, as well as our own ethical considerations, colleagues and colleagues, and not just regulations. Even our own reflection, how many times will we have to try to do this? Last but not least, colleagues, in this House, I think there are 24 mayors and mayors at this time. That means most are on the side of those who aren't. We need to ask ourselves and find out that this is not the only problem. Last but not least, some of my colleagues, whom I am deeply respecting at this time, such as my colleague Rezman, my colleague Barovic, my colleague Brulc, have been able to have such a self-examined and honest thought. I made it myself. You've told me many times that I've performed a similar dual function in the past. Yes, but two years ago, I also consciously decided not to run again for office in the local community and to concentrate fully on the work of the National Assembly. It was my own thought and also some knowledge when I was actually doing my job in all the ways that I was just a mayor, when I was both and now that I was only a Member of Parliament. I think we are sinking deeper and deeper into growing problems, increasing inconsistencies and growing contradictions because of our inadequacy. I'll tell you some of these cases. The statutes of the municipalities currently state that we actually have professional and non-professional mayors. In some ways, even mayors decide for themselves how they will perform this function. And look, first discrimination. We treat mayors equally, because we only allow those who perform their functions unprofessionally to enter the National Assembly. If a statute in a municipality provides for the mayor to perform his duties professionally, we do not allow him to perform his duties as a Member. Therefore, only non-professional mayors may perform their post. Inconsistentity, contradiction, discriminatoryness. Come in. A discriminatory attitude toward the congregation is present. And let's be honest, we're all aware of that. Including people who, in the event that someone who is mayor, is running for mayor, think about themselves by thinking, but this is actually going to be good for our congregation. If our mayor is in Parliament, he will notice that there will be enough projects in the budget for our environment, and that is what is expected of the mayor. That's what's expected of him. Mostly that's what's expected. And it's rewarded. And we gave this opportunity to 20 to 30 municipalities in individual mandates. It's the only place we're going is between 20 and 30. I'm asking you, what about the other 180? Why doesn't 180 of them have the same options? Because they don't collect enough votes to push their mayor into the National Assembly? Where are we going? This National Assembly is a post-constitutional place where the interests of all citizens and citizens must be expressed. And I have previously made a provocative statement on purpose by an expert who is observing us and who says that the National Assembly, in his opinion, is absolutely too flooded and overloaded with localism. And I have to say I agree with that. In most cases, when I speak from my own experience, everyone must decide between the local interest and the state's attitude in order to decide what is closer to him in this case. And closer to these citizens and citizens, closer to your local interest. Definitely. If anyone disagrees, let me know when someone might have done something like this. Never and never. We have to be honest, we have to say. And we're swamped with things like this. We want or do not want and here is discrimination against Slovenian municipalities, which we share with those who have mayors in Parliament and those we do not have. When, according to my assessment years ago, the legislators tried to allow this possibility in some way, even though the matter was taking place completely at different levels, it was then for other professions where, over time, this matter was born not only in the case of mayors and mayors but also in all other professions. And it is absurd that in this House almost everyone is already engaged in other activities. I don't think it's in our honor and pride that everyone is somehow trying to ensure another future, some future in different ways, other earnings along with create and so on. I don't think that's an honor. And that's what citizens and citizens tell us. That's what they're telling us. They are not satisfied that we are actually spreading our energy to all the ends and places and doing all the other things. It is definitely a matter of mixing the legislative and executive powers. The municipalities are part of the executive branch. We must agree on this; they also perform part of the administrative functions at a certain level. These administrative functions have their basis in the legislation we adopt together in the National Assembly. What does that mean? It means that the mayors in the role of Members are, in fact, those who make their own laws. Is that absurd or not? I'm saying it is. I think I'll be very disappointed if this thought fails again. But I must say that I understand why he will not succeed: especially in view of the opposition's position. The opposition will reject this proposal in its entirety. Even with laughter, even with loud murmuring. For once, I did not hear the position of the Group of Members by completely rejecting these proposals. It is simply a matter of political prestige, which option will succeed. It is simply this opposition's view of the matter strictly politically, strictly calculatingly, simply so that the coalition does not act on this matter. But this is not the victory of the coalition or opposition, it would be the victory of common sense in this House and of sufficient majority of Members and Members from all options, from all political parties, to understand, however, the absurdity of this situation, in which we are and why we are sinking deeper and deeper into the inconsistencies and inadequacy and problems of such a solution that we have in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Vice President, Minister with a co-worker. Good-bye! In fact, one doesn't know how to start, but when you listen to so many cynical debates, and completely without arguments and without ethics, without principle, without a political culture, then you have to react somehow. But as dignified and peaceful as possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of the ruling coalition, this proposal for the separation of these two functions will be ethical, will have some political message and content and will be in principle only then, colleagues and colleagues, when your party presidents do not go before all the elections, in front of the national elections, so to speak. Gregor Golobič introduced two candidates from the electoral unit to the National Assembly. President Zaresa Gregor Globoč stressed today's presentation of the bereaved candidate Alojz Posedel in Žalec that this candidate brings to politics novelty and experience, experience as mayor of the Municipality of Žalec and Member of the National Assembly. Good day, Mr President, now President Gregor Golobič, so you have come to the elections and to the National Assembly because you have walked the world, including Pahor, also Jelinčič and so on after this Slovenia only because you represent good candidates, experienced candidates. [[...]] And the second year, you will go around and you will represent a number of your candidates for mayors of Members and Members in order to do so. Colleagues and colleagues, if you're serious about it, then those political parties you think are coming to the next state-level elections without mayoral candidates. No, even more, write down in your statutes that the mayor can't run for the National Assembly or for an MP. But vice versa. You do this, you have this right, you can vote at your congresses. And if you do so, and then come with such a law, those who do not perform two functions will be relatively credible. Today, to talk about the fact that a congregation, yes, when you listen to this Cveto Zalokar, was indeed a 6 - year - old MP and mayor, is that she was always in the coalition and she really did nothing but work for her congregation, and she said she did very little for that. But if we wanted to do it today, Minister, I'm sorry, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, you were elected once, but now with this change of legislation, and perhaps you could benefit from it. That is why it is simply not right to come up with such a proposal. And some coalition colleagues have told you, let's go to the law in its entirety, that is, as it should be. A few tasks, too, the Law on Members will change - why didn't you come with the whole package, why something partial? I hear you're the one who's in the coalition! Didn't the majority coalition come with this? So already in the coalition we could agree that you're not the opposition, so that the coalition can offer you something, you're a coalition and you could say, no, that's what you have to do. [[...]] But of course, some were impatient. But being in both functions for six years, and only then does the holy spirit explain to you and let you know that somehow it's not working, and it's just not credible. And one more thing. Would you like to have my vote for this marriage? Would you like to have it? Well, listen up! Thirty-three of us are in the National Assembly, which we are mayors, mayors or saints. Colleagues and colleagues, make an amendment, file it for this law to enter into force sixty days after it enters into force in the Official Journal, you have my vote. You have my vote! Don't change, we're not adopting any law for 2012. Who are we? What are the gods interested in, someone in 2012, and that doesn't apply to us. Well, we are, so don't move! [[...]] There's too much manure in this country and get on with the legislation you need. People don't have jobs, they don't have wages, they don't have social money, they don't have kindergarten money, they don't have investment money. You hold 300 million euros and there was no fifth call for regional development. 300 million euros! You don't even know what you'd do, the only thing you've been criticizing Minister Zhagar for a while. The only quality minister who's been on the local government since he came out of practice! He's been mayor for ten years! Today, we have a government that has an hour in the economy, an hour in local self-government and an hour in the construction committee. Please! And where are we at the end? It's almost the end of this country. Well, that's the law that rules 3-0 in football jargon. Today will be 4:0, except for some. 24. In 2005, that was five days less than four years, the law was here at the hearing and the conclusion was that the law was not a suitable basis for further consideration, i.e. the same law. Well, and that such a law was not a suitable basis for further consideration, fellow Member Žnidaršič Franc voted in favour. In four years, something apparently moved him, and today he speaks differently. But as for colleague Zalokar Orazem, then she did not press the quorum, not the "for" and not the "against" on the list of those excused; so she was here. Well, that's principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar, do you want a replica or as a proponent? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I must say that it is sad when things are brought to a personal level in the debate on such general matters. And now I'm going to paraphrase this shirt here and I'm going to say, if the main problem in this country is the issue of the incompatibility of the function of Member and Mayor Zalokar Orazem, then I am firmly withdrawing. But Mr Pukšič has a lot of problems with me, and he also has his own judgment on this. I'm glad he's thinking about me, and I have some information to fix. I was elected mayor three times and twice for the MP, and probably these votes didn't just come after the case and just because I'm bad at work, Mr Pukšič. Just as you like to talk in the hallways about how successful the mayor is, especially how successful you are at the local level, how Destrnik is a thriving congregation and when you are talking in this sense, you have no problem in seeing this absurdity of this situation of double functions through your statements. I must say that it seems bad to me, because obviously, under your impression, we will also begin to discuss in this way, I hope that we will not talk about the problem, what is the problem of this country, the National Assembly, our problem, our assessment, and not in the way of personal discredits, personal convictions and such and similar matters as you have allowed them, colleagues who I do not think have been on the right level in view of what is the subject of today's speech. And because you also spoke about what the president of our party was doing, I think that this argument is even more that we need a change in this law, certainly. I'm sure you're also deeply mocked if the marriage came into force in eight days, you wouldn't have supported it in any way. And I think it is right that we have given a transitional period, and none of those Members and Members, who are also mayors and mayors, will at this moment be threatened and not threatened and can perform their functions to the end as a Member as well as the mayor. I think it is right that we have arranged this way, so that political parties can prepare themselves for a situation in which the presidents of all parties will no longer be in line. Let's be honest, everyone bloody under the skin danced around mayors like those who brought them positive and more votes in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Bukovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Dear Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I begin my debate by quoting the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 43 of which is called the right to vote: "Voluntary rights are universal and equal. Every citizen who has turned 18 has the right to vote and be loved." This article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also provides me with a basis for my debate and also for voting in the evening hours. The proposed amendment and, of course, of course, of course I cannot support the law, because it does not represent a systemic solution to the problem and because it treats a group of people or electorates or voters in a partial way. I come from the constituency, which in the mandates of the National Assembly between 2000 and 2004 and 2004-2008 did not have a representative in this temple of democracy, as our President of the Government has repeatedly called. In preparation for my debate on the amendment, I have prepared a table with professional colleagues, which can be obtained from me - or I can send it to you, if you are interested - which shows extremely interesting results, how the constituencies were represented and the constituencies covered by individual members of the National Assembly in the elections 2000 - 2004 and 2008. Let me just mention a few details. The elections of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2000 covered about two thirds of Members with constituencies. 61 members were elected to the National Assembly from the 88 elections, and 27 were not elected to the National Assembly of their representatives during those elections. Moreover, some of the constituencies had two MPs at the time, and there were 19 such constituencies. In the 2000 elections, there were even constituencies from which the three Members came. At the 2004 elections, 18 election circuits were left without each of their representatives in the National Assembly. In this mandate, there were again 19 constituencies, which had two MPs. At the elections in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia 2008, there were again 27 election circuits without their representative in the National Assembly. In addition, two MPs were elected in ten constituencies, and even in two constituencies three members were elected. And if we measure the development potential of electoral thefts and not of municipalities, after meeting with Members, I can find that this development potential differs significantly if they come from some election thefts after three Members or if the constituency does not have a representative in the National Assembly. However, let the distinguished colleagues and colleagues continue to try to explain that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we are all Members of all the people, I must say that I did not get this feeling when preparing the 2010 and 2011 budget. For example, when coordinating and preparing the budget, there is never a Member or a Member coming from Styria, for example, to report or report projects from Dolenjska and vice versa. That is why I think it is important that the coverage of parliamentary electoral thefts is increased. The second problem I see in this issue and this amendment to the law is the participation of Members with voters and voters in their constituency. Let's play with the numbers again. In the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia 2008 - 2012, there is once again almost a third of the polling stations that do not have their own representative in the National Assembly. I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to whom should electorates and voters turn for the problems of almost a third of our country, but when they do not have their own representative in Parliament, so that they can also transfer these problems to the executive branch of power. In Slovenia, in the countryside, we have the mayors, the mayors and the saints, of course, on condition that we do our work well - and how we do it, the electorates and voters in the elections - perhaps some miss more options for election to the National Assembly. I cannot agree with this bill or amendment, because this proposal makes it impossible for our constituents and voters to enforce Article 43 of the Constitution of Slovenia, i.e. the possibility of being elected and elected. Such a bill would further increase the centralisation of this country, which would mean that the rural area would be deprived of decision-making. At the end of my consideration of the proposal and amendment, let me repeat again and again. When I announced the nomination for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and at the confirmation of the Presidency of my party, it was never a accumulation of functions, less than two more earnings, but mainly the development of the constituency of the Zgornjedrava Valley, which was accidentally composed of 6 municipalities: the municipalities of Dravograd, Muta, Vuznica, Radlje ob Drava, Podvelka and Ribnica in Pohorje, and those people who live there and sent me to Ljubljana last year at the national elections. [[..]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	I'm asking for peace. I give the floor to Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I've just lost my word for this applause, but that's all I'm going to say. I admire all the mayors. I think you're unique and you're very hopeful, but I believe you're still just people, and I believe the day still has only 24 hours. What conclusion we can draw from this is clear. Second, it might be good if there were more lawyers in the National Assembly to understand what our constitutional arrangement says, what the principle of constitutionality and legality says, what the rule of law says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you. The list is closed. I can still see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Madam Minister, will you then? Mr. Zanoškar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! This amendment, which was tabled by the SDS concerning the discriminatory exclusion of the mayors of the municipalities from this treatment, is not acceptable to me personally. It's acceptable because he's discriminatory. It is nice and right that the party making this amendment notices that the city’s congregations are something other than other congregations, that the city’s municipalities have a little more authority and a little wider scope of action, but this observation is not seen in the Law on the Financing of the Congregations because it does not feel that way. It wouldn't be right to feel that way about this marriage, so I can't be behind this amendment. As far as the law is concerned, then I also have an opinion on this bill. I fully understand that the planners of this law and the proposers want to avoid and respect all principles of power-sharing, then conflict of interest, equal opportunities and so on. However, as has already been mentioned many times today, I am of the same opinion that the law covers a partial content, a partial part, but does not affect the consideration of this issue more broadly. By adopting this law, we will by no means be able to resolve other open matters, open questions, which are also drawn through what we have heard today: the performance of the work of a minister who still has the opportunity to carry out other things, not least of all the content that is in the performance of the work of a councilman or a saint. See how contradictory it is, too, that in the municipal council he may be the director of an institution, which is also the founder of a congregation. There is also a conflict of interest here, in fact this conflict of power-sharing - executive and legislative power. This law would be acceptable when it fully addresses all these matters and solves them. I'm sorry this marriage is coming in a little ill-conceived. I might even be in favor of supporting him, but at this point, I can't. It's what it is. I am sorry that the debate on this law has also led to a lot of peripeties, a lot of tension within the parliamentary groups themselves, which is in fact a lot of damage. Mayors, and as has already been said and as this amendment has been tabled, we are - I will not be modest - the added value of this National Assembly. It's probably the mayors and the mayors we're sitting here, the ones we're bringing in this direct contact with the environment, direct contact from the local environment. Because sometimes some fellow Members may seem to be a bit off this foundation, and sometimes they don't know what's going on in the base. That is why it seems to me that the mayors are doing our part, even though we have heard such and different observations and such and different debates, but this should also be respected in some way. The law would be acceptable, once again, and this amendment would also be acceptable if it were to fully address the issue, but not as partial as it is being addressed. Well, I can't be in favour of an amendment, otherwise it's conditioned: I'm not in favour of a marriage, so I'm not in favour of an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Because there was a miscalculation, but we watched it manually, and 3 minutes 20 minutes was spent by Desus. However, since the list of further applications has been deleted, I will ask that all those who wish to discuss this Article and the amendment apply again. There's a report coming in. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I'll say something very brief about the law itself. I would like to say at the outset, given that the Group of Members has proposed this law and that the first signed Member has been acting as a Member and the mayor has also been covered for six years, I will say, but it may have gained some experience and this proposal has also come into its own kind. It is true, however, that even in the agreement, the coalition treaty has been written down to discuss this matter as well. It is also true that this function is very difficult to carry out and that most of all, here is a matter of time and one who allows himself to be elected as mayor and Member is actually carrying on a great burden and it is physically quite difficult to bear this burden. I am sure that most Members, who are also mayors at the same time, although this has been said several times today, have not come to this function for any of these functions for financial reasons. For if we calculate, draw the line together, we can quickly conclude that this is not so financially brilliant or that it is not so financialally interesting. But I will say something else about conflicts of interest. Over the next week, we are adopting the 2010 and 2011 budget. In this budget it will be clear that Members here have indeed had no special influence to transfer some additional funds or projects into this budget. I must say that I have not been a Member in the past period, I must say that I did not have a worse position in the budget for the local community that I represent than I do now. So I was not a Member, I was a Mayor, and now I am a Member of the Coalition, and I have a poor financial position or less of a project within the budget and the NRP. But let me put it this way, in the end, it's up to the voters to decide. They should be left to themselves whether they are interested that their mayor is also a Member of Parliament. If they think it's incompatible, they won't do it either. I keep thinking about how to vote on this. For a very long time, I was sure that I would support this marriage. In view of the fact that some have assessed and made public that I will vote against it, I am likely to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you. I think it is right that there is so much talk about the amendment, although the whole issue of the bill can be linked to Article 1. What the colleagues of the SDS have written down and highlighted is a change in the term 'local assembly', which tells us that if we are really committed to this content now, it is a great fault that no more than a few of these concerns about the Law of Members, the division of power, and so on, it is a great fault that the origin of all problems can be caused by an excessive number of municipalities. We came from 94 to 210 and I am sure that the content would be completely different, both this conversation and the law, if we had at least half the congregations we have. Whether we want it or not, we are all those mayors or all the mayors, probably convinced that we can do both functions, we are confident that we are doing them as well as possible, we are confident that we want the good on the one hand and on the other. But such belief is sometimes false. Falsely because of the essential difference - and I do not underestimate anyone - I believe in honesty and loyalty to work - the essential difference is to be mayor in the municipality with, say, up to 5,000 people or to be mayor in the municipality of 20, 30, 40 thousand people. That must be acknowledged - a major difference. And I would like to stress the importance of thinking about the content of this law, another content that Dr. Mencinger gave - I very much appreciate it as an economist. He stressed that it was a recent time for the country to transfer increasing investment in infrastructure to a local level and that greater emphasis was needed on State and local cooperation in maintaining financial assistance for business survival. It follows from this that this separation, separation of legislative and executive powers is still necessary, necessary and important. To my colleagues who will continue to debate, of course I will, if not here in the office, but I believe that they will agree with my view that the work of the mayor is one big rock on the shoulders of this man and that the work of the mayor is more difficult for the mayor than the work of the Member as regards the executive facts, I stress the executive facts, much more difficult for the man than the work of this Parliament. Now we're talking about executive facts. Much harder for an individual, man. That is how I think that any reason on any side is - and again - I stress, because we will finally come to a solution to the issue of the State Council, so that such a law will finally be just, right in the National Assembly. And finally, then I won't answer any more; but for all those who will tell anyone - at least three or four of us who support this law - but if you think so, step aside, I want to answer only one. Three years ago, when the electorate and the electorate elected me as mayor with a large majority, almost 90%, I assumed a great responsibility; the responsibility of four years as mayor. I've done every responsibility I've taken on my shoulders in the four-and-a-half years of my life until the last day. So that's just why I'm not giving up as mayor today if anyone else is sending these notes. It is my duty to carry out my obligation to 80% of the electoral beneficiaries in the Trbovlje Congregation until the next election, irrespective of the adoption of this law. So don't make me give up because, though hard, I'm going to be very hard with diseases, but I'm going to finish it by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that today is an interesting and necessary debate. Above all, I see it in the context of the organisation of local self-government and how to make this country as real and effective as possible. Since I am the mayor and the MP, I will say that when we voted on this law in 2005, we named it Barovic's marriage, I was one of those rare ones, I think the 17 that I pressed "for" to support the separation of these two functions. And so, without any difficulty, I will do it again today, especially for a key reason, because I think that many times there is a problem in linking the legislative and executive functions. On the other hand, it must be said that all Slovenian mayors perform their functions as well as possible. How someone is successful, whether they can or not, is decided every four years by the direct elections of the Slovenian voter and the electorate. The fact is that municipalities with mayors and MPs are in some ways privileged mainly because of increased engagement, involvement. In order to say that they receive more from the budget in a short period of time, this is difficult to establish. However, it seems to me that local self-government is valuable that the mayors are the ones who are directly trying out how bad, ineffective laws work in practice. See, for example, spatial planning legislation. The problem is plentiful and therefore contact with the immediate environment is important that those who enforce the laws can draw attention to poor preparation. Therefore, I propose that the functions of the Member and the Mayor be separated, that the State Council be reformed in parallel with the regionalisation of Slovenia, because those who want to represent local, municipal interests will have the opportunity to say what and how through the intermediate body. In the beginning, there was also talk about money. I have to tell you and ensure that Slovenian mayors and mayors are the best managers for the bad pay they receive. I, like my coworkers, brand myself when I get to work, I am a non-professional mayor, and on average I perform more than an eight-year-old worker by making myself available on Friday afternoons, every Saturday, if necessary, and every Sunday as well. And all these matters must, of course, be regulated so that the system in this country, which is too bureaucratic, is even more efficient and will be more focused on meeting those needs of the people who have put us in these positions. Also, the fact that someone is explaining and saying that someone should then step down; as long as such legislation as we have, it must be respected, and we will also respect it out of principle and out of the considerations that I have said at the outset; especially because of the conflict of interests that there is no doubt. However, as in the previous vote, I will also press the button in this vote and try to achieve that what I think these two functions are dissipating to do so. It is certainly in line with the first amendment, however, that all municipalities, those with a few hundred inhabitants, and those with more than one hundred thousand, are not equally difficult to manage. If someone, for example, can simultaneously teach at two, three, four colleges and there certainly receive more income than someone for non-professional rounding or undergrounding, then it is necessary to make a possible cut and make order in this area. That is why we, as a parliamentary group, advocate that if we succeed today, we also take the next step and act as a Member, make it really professional and clean up all the extra work and activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	Nice greetings, respectable vice president, colleagues, colleagues. The topic that we are discussing today is certainly a topic around which much can be said. After all, this is also the subject of a different regime across the European Union, which we belong to. In our neighbourhood of Austria and Germany as well as in Belgium, such arrangements as ours are legal, and these democracies with a few more internships than ours, I see they have no major problems with this. For Austrians, it is very normal for everyone, first of all, to be a 'communal policy', as they say to politicians across local communities, and that when you do this test and you place a primary school here and another part of the faculty of politics, it is a very good prerequisite that you can also become a state policy. In Germany, there is no problem if the mayor of the Bavarian municipality is Baden-Württemberg municipality, sitting in Landkreis and also in the Parliament of Bavaria or other countries. I also know colleagues in Belgium who perform such functions. Therefore, those who refer to the incompatibilities of these two branches of government forget to say that one is performed at the state level and the other at the municipal level. I think you have a little bit of a problem arguing that. I firmly believe that in 20 years of Slovenian democracy we have not done everything we should and that there is still much to do in this area. The proponents of this, those of you who are supporters of this law, are talking about having a disabled State Council. Indeed, some would still abolish it, have no real powers, this is not the second home, I agree with that. Many times it is said that there are too many congregations and that half of them should be abolished. Forget to support the establishment of landscapes that would largely resolve these discrepancies. In this area, we have many very difficult tasks, which are crucial for the development of Slovenia, democracy and, above all, for the development of the country, the economy, the local communities. In my deep conviction, and after everything I hear, we are talking about a political law with a political background. This background of this law has its continuation in the proposal, which is also in the public hearing proposed by the Minister, as opposed to her client colleague who proposed this law in the electoral law. When you sum up the effects of these two laws, we actually come to the mayors being expelled from Parliament, in my deep belief, we establish a very strong system of how the parties from the summit will conduct, who will receive the most votes in which the electoral units, whose most powerful candidates, who do not most often have as much money to go through the majority system, will be measured at the municipal level, where they will be nominated, where they will be able to get enough votes to defend these matters in the National Assembly. After all, we would probably have far more obedient Members in this House than you have today, because those of us who have been at the local level for 10 years and more, which we have measured three times, would not get a large percentage in the elections, otherwise - with the majority support you have to get for the mayor. Such people are very difficult to remove. This is also seen in the debates today, including in some of those parties that you are proposing and as leaders of the parliamentary groups you are overwhelmingly advocating this law, that you have quite a problem with it. This is a classic political law that, according to the motioner, would raise Parliament's reputation, enhance the quality of the work, and the Parliament would be cleared - according to one of the very eloquent Members, it is likely that the naked, engulfed mayors, for which we have been characterized today. This is a very serious insult to me. I've had 11 years of very honest work among politicians. The question is whether those who speak these words can look themselves in the face as well as any law enforcement authority that accepts such findings. That is why I think that, and these are the things that make us lose our reputation, dear Members. We will gain a reputation in this House when we hear each other speak respectfully of each other, understand that we do not all think the same, that they are different opinions, and finally, once we have achieved, for God's sake, in this House, that we will all find out together what is best from this debate and we will support it. As long as the Parliament is a parliament in which the parties will agree on how a Member's roller should vote, so much time, respected colleagues, we will have no respect in the country. After one year of sitting here in the benches, I find it very serious to ask if this country still needs this Parliament, which the coalition dictatorship tells it what to vote on, and it doesn't matter what we're all talking about here together. At the mayoral level, there is no such thing at the municipal level, we listen to each other and to the concerned municipalities, the mayors of Slovenia should be greatly grateful that Slovenia is today as it is, and to a large extent we are responsible for it, like those who are, or are, or have sat in these benches. It may feel like I'm being hurt, but I'm being very honest, just like in politics, I'm working alone and all the 210 mayors I think we're talking about. I propose that, in order to adopt such important things, a constitutional majority is likely to be necessary. Let us sit together and put on the table pension legislation, legislation around municipalities, legislation on the State Council, electoral legislation, obtain the necessary two-thirds majority and then come to the Slovenian public to tire out with such proposals. As long as you have such a situation that your coalition members come to such meetings with custom-made T-shirts for this meeting, where in the same parliamentary group you are fighting each other, what is right and what is wrong, and thus making the Slovenian country tired during such an economic crisis, it is irresponsible for me to do so. If the proposer and members of the coalition find this "mission impossible", stop such missions impossible at the beginning and start dealing with serious things!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Of course, I would like to start by saying that I will not support the amendment, but I would like to say this in particular that I will follow the Rules of Procedure, and that I will continue to talk more about the law itself. When the law came into the procedure and when we discussed it at the parliamentary club, we also in some way authorized our president of the parliamentary club to sign or sign this law and that this law goes into procedure. At the time, I must say that I was also firmly convinced that I am behind this law and that, in principle, I am constantly aware of the fact that the word is also binding, in fact today I should also say that I should press "for" this law. It is true, however, that from then on, things have happened in the National Assembly and also in the corridors and elsewhere, some essential things that, of course, I cannot. In any case, I do not agree that, as we speak in the amendment, we say that compatibility is not just for mayors who are in the municipalities. If we are talking about incompatibility, this incompatibility should be done at all levels, and if we did it at all levels, there would be no problem of voting for such a law or having significantly fewer problems today. Although I come from a small congregation, as in this National Assembly, we hear, or from a congregation that is, in fact, almost the cause of such or different crises in our country, to have such or different problems in our country. In fact, I would also like to say from this city that in the 2010 and 2011 budget, as a Member, I have no new project and no big project that would not have been created before. Thus, the primary school space, the gym and some major projects in this congregation were completed before I became an MP. At the moment, I am only advocating as a Member projects of a regional character or project originating in my constituency. Now there's something else about today's discussions. Unprofessionality of the mayor and, of course, his presence or absence from the municipal building. I myself have been a professional mayor for 10 years and I must point out from this place that this absence of me actually adds to my burden - this is no problem at all. It is true that we need to do much more work on Saturday and Sunday, as well as some evenings. The next question is asked. What does the absence of the mayor mean where the mayor is not an MP and is the mayor of a non-professional, runs a large business, is a professor, is a doctor? In our environment, we even had the opportunity to have the mayor work most of his day abroad and lead the congregation. If we want to do what we want to do today to prove that the incompatibility of the mayor and the MP is not primarily because these two functions cannot be done evenly or well, it is also possible to some extent, and that we are not present at the local level, then in the Law on Local Self-Government we write: The Mayor can only be a mayor and must be a professional. The Member can only be a Member and he is a professional by law. And there's no, I'll say, case. Today we have also heard, someone even quoted someone as saying that the National Assembly has become at or below the level of the village local community because of this -- at least that's how I understood that some of us come from your area. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to end by saying that, in any case, regardless of how the law will be passed, I will no longer run for office because I want to work at the local level. However, I would also like to point out that, at the local level, many times, especially in the village councils and villages of local communities, the debates are better and more qualitative and less offensive than I hear in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, about the amendment. I will not support it because the amendment violates the simple or simple principle of equality. Otherwise, we know such and similar systems in some other countries, but they cause large and long controversy, for example, in Italy there is a limit of about 20,000 people. All mayors who are mayors in major cities must not serve as senators or MPs. But also in those other countries of the European Union, there is a debate on whether it makes sense to insist on double functions that in fact violate the fundamental principle of democracy, and this is a division between the legislative and executive powers - this is what this is about. It's not a matter of valuing your fellow mayors. Personally, I believe that all fellow Members who perform the mayoral function are competent and also offer additional value in the debates, which is certainly not available to those who do not have such experience. So I would also like to invite all the debaters to have a respectful attitude towards all the mayors' colleagues. I think that this debate is legitimate and every position we are hearing here today is legitimate. I am trying to understand the reasons the mayors are trying to argue, but I must admit that I was positively surprised by my colleague Brulc when he said very frankly that if you want to be a good mayor, how do you run into objective obstacles in the performance of such an important function as, on the one hand, the mayor's office and, on the other hand, the role of Member of the National Assembly. It simply does not work together, especially if a Member acts on a number of committees and wants to be always present and active on these committees. We know that one of the chronic diseases of our committees, at least some, is inconclusive. Damocles's sword of indiscretion not only because of the mayors but also because of other absences, but the fact is that they have two such important functions are more subject to objective circumstances that prevent them from operating normally in the National Assembly. It is not true that this law restricts the constitutional right to vote, as previously stated, that law also allows mayors to run, but that if elected to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is necessary to determine whether Members or mayors will continue to do so. Therefore, their right to run and to be elected is retained, respected and respected, and then everyone and also the Constitution expects someone to determine whether he will act within the legislative authority or within the executive power. And the mayor's function is an eminent executive function. This is the debate on the quality of democracy, parliamentary democracy, because we cannot deceive ourselves with the demagogic or populist interpretations that the mayors of parliament bring to the National Assembly this added value that I spoke about earlier and thus enrich the debates. True, but it is also true that what was also said by Cveta’s colleague is that this applies to a handful of mayors and a handful of local communities. And this is where we come back to great discrimination. It is true that here there are some 10 municipalities represented that the mayor and the MP are given an opportunity - and this is a vicious circle that we would like to break with this law - to take advantage of their privileged position. When the mayor and when he is in the elections, he has a priority because of his visibility, because of his work, because of the opportunities he has, and when he is a Member, he also has a privileged position if he is to run for mayor. In short, this vicious circle has something dysfunctional in terms of quality democracy. And we need to be aware of that, that's all. It is not about whether we will determine whether Mr Bokovic is a good mayor and a good Member. I claim that all the Members I know are, by their own good, including the gentleman from the Slovenian National Party, Mr Barovic is a good mayor, I know that he is a good mayor, he is a good Member in terms of the interests of his own party, of course, from the point of view of me, we are many times, almost every time in opposite positions. But this is not important, the fact is that when it comes to discussion, it is not about the quality of the mayor's work or the parliamentary work, the discussion is about whether we want to achieve the quality of parliamentary democracy, where there will be a clear distinction between the executive and legislative authorities. That's all this is about. I come from an environment where I could say much more about running the local community, but it has nothing to do with this debate. Of course, I am a little surprised, little regret that the debate takes place in such a way that the separator is not a party, nor is there a separation between coalition and opposition, but is an interesting divide that brings together some Members seen in this dual function and those who feel that this dual function has no positive effect on the quality of this Parliament and also on the quality of policy in general. So I object to the amendment, and of course I strongly support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Keck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment because I think it is right that we are talking about the incompatibilities of all mayors, both large and small, and I do not have any problems myself, and I have no problems in making other functions more general with this law, which does not mean that I am not prepared to support this bill, which is proposed. It is also true that things are more important than this law, which does not mean that these things do not have to be solved. Many years ago, in each mandate, these two functions were tried to be dissolved, we have this written down in the coalition contract, it is the subject of this opinion, it is the public opinion, but when this law comes on the agenda, lobbying will begin by Parliament; lobbying will result in the evening and show what kind of MP this Parliament will give to the public about the reputation. I wish we could finally support this incompatibilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Gönch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague. To some extent, I'm in a good position and I'm making it easier because I'm not burdened with either customer or function. Nevertheless, I believe that the weight is the same as that of any Member. Given what we just heard today, there is no doubt that there are arguments, and these are objective arguments, on both sides. It would be very difficult to say that anyone "mom shot" to a very large extent. However, I think that, above all, today must be in the interest of the success of the National Assembly as such, and I look at the issue from the point of view of an entire state interest. If, from this point of view, I am approaching my decision, then for comparison, which is very current today, I can give an example of sport. In many cases, certain sports industries complained that they had lost support within a sports union, mainly because they were represented primarily by the interests of another industry. However, at this point, there is no doubt that there is an advantage on the part of those mayors who are present here today in this House, compared to those who are not present today. So, this is, I mean, we can make an objective assessment. This is why I stress that I have had interviews on this subject with some mayors from Prekmur who are not in this Parliament and are mostly in favour of sharing functions. Of course, not everyone and this is also just one aspect or one segment of this context. However, it is clear to us all that there will be political decisions at the end, even in this case. Whether she will be good or bad and for whom she is good and what a bad decision she is, there is another question. But in my view, two things are particularly important: that there is a conflict of interest in this issue, and I do not think that this can be questionable. And that is not to say that the mayors who are present here today or who are not present have not done what is best, even in the interests of the State and in the interest of your local community. Nevertheless, this conflict of interest is undoubtedly present, as those 190 mayors, who are not here today, are undoubtedly, in saying, "in a worse position" in some cases - and I stress in some decisions. And the other thing is, we could argue about this for a long time if this law is as proposed as it is, it's really right if it's really perfect. He's probably not, and he's probably got a lot of flaws. But as far as the basic idea is concerned, namely the separation of the executive and the legislative authorities, it is undoubtedly appropriate and supportive in my opinion. Here I fully agree with Mr Barovic, who best illustrated the issue of the legislative and executive authorities in the case of ministers and mayors. We could still cite cases. And I would like to mention another question, which has been mentioned several times in the debate on the working body in order to fully clear the parliamentary function. I'm here for a slightly different opinion. I believe that one structure we are talking about today is the division of executive and legislative power. And there is one purely different structure of some scientific activity, some medical activity or any other activity. I think that this issue is very well governed by our Rules of Procedure in the sense that a fifth of the time can be devoted to this activity. This is not about the same quality and it is not about the same context, this is about two very different issues, but it is not true that this issue does not have to be opened, but it can be opened, but it is not directly related to this context. Finally, I would point out that it is not entirely comparable, however. We in the Hungarian national community have already resolved this issue. The Hungarian National Community and its leadership may be comparable to that of a small congregation, in no way urban or larger, but at the beginning of the 1990s we said in our Statute that the President of the said community could not be a national member at the same time. And finally, on the amendment itself, so that I don't violate the rules of procedure. From this point of view, what I have said is that I am leaning much more towards dividing the function, I will not support this amendment. Otherwise, I would stress only one problem, if this amendment were also sustainable, the question is where the border is. In fact, it is clear to us that the city municipality is just a formal border, and there is certainly no real boundary between the mayor’s activity, which operates in the city’s municipality and in a larger municipality. In fact, there is no exact limit here, and this kind of injustice could also be committed. In short, I will not support the amendment, but I will vote in favour of the adoption of this law on the basis of the arguments put forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. There are still many things to do in the National Assembly earlier, first of all to adopt legislation on the provinces, to transfer competences to them, and only then to discuss the compatibility of the functions of mayors and Members. Members, who are also mayors, are an excellent link between legislative solutions and the practical application of these solutions. The link between MPs and people through mayors is the most beautiful way to bring environmental problems to Parliament to prepare and adopt acceptable laws. It is true that it is sometimes difficult to coordinate mayoral and parliamentary obligations, but it is possible. We are also current Members and Mayors. Slovenia is fortunate to have many dedicated, very dedicated mayors. That is also why such progress has been made. I believe that with these steps, the coalition is doing everything in the direction of centralisation, because the mayors - Members - are the only link that strikes this country with experience, with arguments. I'm asking you where the damage is done to the state. Please state the evidence and then propose an amendment to the legislation on this incompatibility. For an MP, I don't think you should have run for mayor before, or at least you've been a mayor before. Because the mayor's been vetted by people, by voters, whether he's trustworthy or not. But it is not that some are elected Members, because they are their leaders, beautiful and handsome. But you also have those who are rude, depraved, and with their loving, often brutal, statements that are close to people, buying sympathy so that they can be on national salary. Until the decentralisation and establishment of the regions have taken place, I have advocated such a long time that these two functions are necessarily compatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We can talk about this very wide and very high. You have already heard the position of the Slovenian People's Party, and that is also my opinion. The incompatibilities of mayors and vice-presidents should also be seen from a second perspective. As mayor, mayor or councilman, I am sure that you can represent and solve problems of local and national level in accordance with parliamentary democracy. These people are forced to meet or meet people on the ground because of the specificity of their work, at all levels. I am convinced that these people have a broad view of life at local level and also at national level. Of course, it would be welcome, as we have already heard, that there would be more lawyers in the National Assembly. Yes, but they have to go to the elections, they have to be elected, and then they will be able to occupy this job. But you know what these people have to do? They must set their faces and accept all the privileges of our Members. I don't think that's why they're here. Because our privileges are too great and they have so much moral distance that they do not want these privileges. And that's why they're not going to the elections, and that's why they're not in here, and that's why they're not contributing to the development of democracy in our National Assembly. However, I believe that each person can decide on his own whether or not he can perform both functions. I'm sure in this case this dual function is a real burden. But we need to adjust our time and thus have to give up something. If we want to do the quality and responsibility of this work that we have here, it has to be. And I am sure and there are also cases where Members have left the National Assembly because they have estimated that they have too much work or work at home, so they will not be able to perform both functions in the same quality. And these are, for example, two of our kind - the mayor of Maribor Franz Kangler and the mayor of Lithuania, Franci Rokavec, who left the secretaryship because he estimated that he would have too much work to do both of them well, or it was not possible to get a shot that would go along and help him and accept all these privileges that we have received. But you know what else bothers me? It also bothers me that today we are trying so hard to close the doors to the mayors, not the mayors, to come to the National Assembly, but to the mayors, to be in both positions to come to the National Assembly. You know, at this time, since I've been in this house, I've seen and seen several times that some go to the elections, eventually break into the National Assembly, if they fail, break into the government service, and then they can't wait to leave and go to the global or European floor. This seems to me to be a humiliation of the National Assembly, a humiliation of the parliamentary function. If you were willing to go to the elections, if you were elected, or if you broke into the government, then do it all the way, then let the doors be open to you in this "glamour" of world politics. This is also one of the things I think is a matter of moral concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Urh has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment and the law. Much or almost everything has been said about this bill, however. When I was representing the position of the Dessus Group, I finally asked myself: Who in this country is afraid of mayors? Now I'm going to try to answer that. Mayors and MPs in this house, I don't think this moment is afraid of anyone. More concern for some is certainly for the current mayor who is at home. And by law, we would like to prevent them from holding the next election or from being able to run for Members. Mainly because the mayors are respected and respected people in their environment, voters elect them, voters know them and voters respect them. And there may also be the heart of this proposal, if you do what a good, respectable man does in Parliament if I have a city reserved here or someone else. This law does not solve the integrity of problems if these problems are. I'll give you one case. If it is disputed to be a mayor and an MP, then I give the case to the municipal councillor and school principal or director of the institution. If this is not a conflict of interest, then so can the Member - the mayor cannot be. If it is disputed in all mandates, since Slovenia exists, to be a mayor and a Member, then I wonder, all governments so far and all the ministers have never said for this speaker: to elect me or confirm my mandate only Members who are not mayors. Why didn't that happen? In the debate before, I heard that we have mayors, who are under the umbrella of a greater influence on local communities, or that we are more committed to our communities than we are coming from. If so, I wonder if we have adopted the law for the local community of Pomurje the last meeting a month ago by all Members here in the National Assembly. This means that we are not advocating for our local communities, but for the integrity of Slovenia for all Slovenian citizens. My fellow Member, Rezman, said that in the previous assembly, some of you have already signed a declaration that there is no compatibility between the Member and the Mayor. Okay, I agree. Why are the same people sitting here now? Why are they running if it's not compatible? Something's not right here. The DeSUS said earlier that we must vote as ordered. That's not true. We are voting on the conscience of Desus's Members, and that is how it will be done in advance. Finally, I must say that the mayor, where I come from, is the mayor of Bohinj, ordered, do not support this law, because I want to be equal to all citizens so that I can run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Posedel has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, colleague, colleague. At first, something more beautiful than this debate. Twice today was the middle mentioned football team and indirectly the result of yesterday's match, from the women's mouths, the minister and the leaders of our parliamentary group. However, I think it is right that, on behalf of all those who are here in Parliament, we congratulate our boys on yesterday's victory that a small representative from small Slovenia has won a high, large team from the great Russia. I am not saying this because I would like to congratulate you once again, because I am sure that the President of Parliament congratulated them on behalf of all of us last night, but because those who watched this game were able to see and make sure that they were fighting this victory with a unified approach, teamwork, with mutual respect, with mutual assistance, with all that needs to be done to get the good guy out of the crowd into one team. What is often happening here in Parliament is quite the opposite. If one wants to move on, the other one wants to move on. But vice versa. And today's debate also leads to a lack of assurance that it would be better. That is why I am talking about this issue as mayor and Member of Parliament. But I am not speaking in person, on my behalf, because we are talking about some mayors and some Members in 2012. No one knows if we'll still be mayors today. Local elections are involved. We don't even know if the parties will put us on the list so that we can even run for Members in 2012. That's why these discussions are kind of imaginary because we're talking about some people, but when this topic opens up, as it opened up today, we're talking about those who are here, and we're talking in a way that can be judged, at least on my part, by a very double scale: that we're good, that we're good, that we're good, that we're good, that we're good, that we're good, that we're good, that we're good, that we bring a lot from the local level, that we have to get this function out of Parliament. Such a debate will then open up all those passions that appear in the populace, which are welcomed by this topic for personal disqualifications, for insults, including lies, for flooding, which certainly is not good for mutual respect, for mutual work. And that is not enough in this House. I agree with what the two speakers have already pointed out: that there was unfortunately no appropriate, professional debate on this proposal. I was surprised myself when I first read in the media that this law had come to cleanse Parliament. And since only the mayors were listed as those, I also logically concluded that obviously we are the biggest, I will say, garbage that needs to be cleaned up by this Parliament. I was also surprised that this bill was not proposed by the Government. I would expect and it would be appropriate for such a quality, good proposal to be prepared by the Government and made such a proposal to take into account all that has been made clear to us today. That we are not only mayors, and that everything related to this function should necessarily be regulated in the law on local self-government and put things in their places, because, like today, they certainly are not right. There are too many exceptions, too many different forms. Today we are just talking about whether the mayor of the city municipality can be an MP and the mayor. On the other hand, we have non-professional mayors of the city municipality, who are lawyers and similar things. There are many of these matters that need to be settled and urgently need to be settled in order for these matters to be settled. The same as between colleagues and colleagues, including other professions, doctors, lecturers, not to mention, are profiles that should be regulated and written at the request of the law. However, I wonder what would be left of such a Member who should, in order to carry out the task of a Member of all citizens and citizens, forget his roots, his place, where he comes from, including the cavalry, his profession, so that he can perform his duties 100 percent, and it is an illusion to seek such a Member, such a Member. That's why it's hard, I'm sure, to write a law like that. That is exactly why we are mayors and Members of Parliament who have a check every four years. Those who do not perform the mayoral function shall not receive a new term of office in the local elections. Those who misrepresented the parliamentary function were not elected at the next state-run elections. So focus and put only mayors on the pranger, I don't think it was appropriate. I am speaking because it has also been seen in the debate and it can be understood that a number of people have also done so to the Slovenian mayors, at least to those who are sitting in Parliament. I'm not talking about proposing, I'm talking about debaters. It's over-emphasizing and creating an impression of the mayor's lobby. I never know on any matter that the mayors would connect and act together. Last but not least, I am convinced that a lot of people would be prevented from doing so by a party policy so that such a link or such a mayoral lobby could work. As I can say, as some of my predecessors have said, even in this mandate, some of the projects that were in the past mandate, when I was an opposition Member, were in the state budget, have now moved back to 2012 and 2013, which I also respect and believe is due to the crisis and problems the Government has with the budget, so that I do not speak incriminatingly, but with the facts. For that, our mayors' great advantage is more of a tricky vine. Finally, if the mayor is so violent and pressured by the minister, it is always up to the minister whether he gives in to such an MP - the mayor, and perhaps he could also ask him to raise his hand to that Member or Member who is not the mayor and does not lobby for his place, for his country, for his activity, for his hospital or the like. These discussions, more than being opened in an inappropriate way or as quickly as opened, I personally assess that they are not good for a joint follow-up. I am sure that matters need to be settled, and I fully agree with this, and I have no objection in principle to this. However, it is only the mayors who must be separated in this function that I have already made clear, and I will also vote against this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I, on behalf of the government in this place, will announce the following. The inadequacy of the time evident to the applicants, namely the representatives of the four groups of Members, is not in place. The solution proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups today was contained in the integrity law. The Integrity Act has already been drafted in the spring months to respond to the anti-constitutional situation in the area of the anti-corruption law. The implementation point of the incompatibilities of the functions occupied by the institutions of the executive function of local self-government and Members representing the legislative branch of the Authority contains a resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia from 2004. The item today in the plenary session has been tabled by Members and Members on the grounds that you wanted to settle your own position because the branches of power are independent: legislative, executive and judicial. The government has absolutely taken note of your commitment and ambition to regulate your position in the Law on Members, which also regulates the non-compatibilities of the parliamentary function. Therefore, in full with all the professional arguments, the coalition agreement also stands behind your proposal. But as you have noticed, the law on integrity is not yet in the government procedure, and because of the fact that we will not be incompatibilities if Members simply fail to be able to support their own regulation, we will professionally propose within the framework of the law on integrity. Not only because of the professional arguments, the arguments in the coalition treaty, but I think it is right for Members and Members to hear this, also because of the important support of the public. The Integrity Act, which established the non-compatibility of functions, namely the executive branch of the local community and the function of a Member, was in public debate. The public's responses are not demeaning to the mayors, not in this direction, as some of you wanted to demonize the mayors, but simply want to have a full-time mayor and a full-time MP. Many letters, comments, greetings that a coalition has finally decided to resolve this issue are on the public side. And if you are referring to the Constitution and to your constitutional right to represent all the people here today, it is also right to hear their voice. Their voice is that they are finally expecting a decision that is right. The decision, however, is the one contained in the novel proposed by the four coalition groups. These functions are incompatible. The SD MP today said, "It's worth trying again and again." Voters are desperate that some coalitions are not capable of such or otherwise. And the lack of confidence in politics, we ourselves know the extent to which it is, and for a reason. Since we do not do simple things that are clear to every human being, we simply speak when it is necessary to make decisions, and we do not do so. I will not give up as a resortary minister because there are many arguments of a constitutional character that speak for the separation of these two functions at local and national level. The SDS Group's amendment is problematic precisely because it does not guarantee this consistent separation and it is an unequal treatment of the same positions. There is a lot of room for arguments here, contrary to the arguments of the profession that have already been really presented today, so I do not want to repeat them, there is no. The Government will re-establish the incompatibility of these two functions in the integrity law. I'm sorry I'm late. I made a commitment. The anti-constitutional situation, this is a situation in the area of anti-corruption due to the conduct of the previous majority, is not yet regulated, but I am waiting for the decision of the esteemed assembly to see whether Members will make this change through their own reflection. If not, this regulation will meet the professional argument, and this article will be incorporated into the integrity law, where it was initially in March. And because he was there and because he was in a public debate and was in an important part supported by the professional public, and particularly by the electorate and the electorate who responded to the public debate on this issue. Polls were also made through various media outlets. Look at them. I think that your mandate, when you are the representatives of all the people, is also linked to the majority opinion expressed by people at a time when you represent them in this House. Here the fear of a lack of integrity of the arrangement that you have expressed is not in place. In the integrity law, this part followed, as has already been said, a resolution. In this House, we want experienced people, with the experience of mayors, people who will be able to run for both positions, both mayoral and parliamentary, but when they get the voter confidence at some point, they will have to decide which position they will perform in order to avoid conflicts of interest in order to manage it as voters and voters expect: full-time. That's what we're supposed to give people. Solutions that are constitutionally consistent and not least appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Vito Rose, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The fact that democracy is a bad system and that we do not know better is long known. It is also clear that we always try to improve it. After the good age of our country, it is obvious that everything in this system is not yet as it should be, and some anomalies have appeared. And this is also what the Minister spoke about, according to the voice of the people who support the changes that today's novelty brings. In the beginning, I must say that there will be no misunderstandings that we have a proportional system in Slovenia, which in fact means that we love customers, not people. No one likes the mayor as an MP, everyone elects the client he represents in his place, if that's the case, the mayor. We have a proportional system, which means we love customers. If anyone else understands this, it's the wrong thing to do, at least in my opinion. And the reason why we may also misinterpret our role is that mayors are actually elected by the majority system. In their local settings, however, they are loved personally, and their responsibility is, and their vows are, personal. Just like the promises of the first minister and minister. It is difficult for me to imagine that a Member, who is also the mayor, and as such committed to the welfare of his local environment, can apply well, also meets that article of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that he must be a Member of all citizens and citizens. It is clear that the state budget is a bag that is not unlimited. And that more for a specific local environment means less for all other environments. Mr Bogovic is probably able to assess and assess why he has been elected mayor so many times and whether his delegation's activities regarding the water fund, the nuclear power plant decommissioning fund and what else he can do about how much the budget of the municipality was later and what he can do with that money. These things are connected, so I believe that the mayor who is running for office wants to do something better for his people. Who are these people? These are in the first place, I suppose, the citizens and citizens of his congregation or his district. Although none of us have really been elected in our district, we have been elected in our constituencies. If a party in our constituency didn't get a good result, we wouldn't be able to get a good result in place. These are the rules of our electoral legislation. They may change in the future or even soon, but for once they do. However, I think that these principles of electoral law will remain as they are. I agree that the experience of local self-government is also very welcome to work in the National Assembly. Most of us have them, if nothing else but congregational saints. I also agree, of course, that there are many similar anomalies at the local level, such as the one we are talking about today. And I also agree that they will leave. It is clear, however, that we Members must be examples and start with ourselves. Even when at the beginning of our mandate at the start of the financial crisis we reduced wages or slowed the coordination of salaries for public sector employees, we did something first. First, we lowered our wages to ourselves. But with what legitimacy, if we didn't do it, we'd do it to public servants. It is logical, therefore, that we begin this journey somewhere with a step that is our personal and first, in short, here with us Members. I also agree that the unfair treatment of functions is also a wound cancer, in short, what Mr Kres said was that someone would later replace this or that function by a Member, as well as a secretary, as well as a mayoral one, with any other on the European or world floor. As the first such, I really remember the resignation of the mayor of Ljubljana, who went to New York as ambassador. And that was followed appropriately by everyone else, I think, steps in his career. But I'm not the one to judge, but I can have my own opinion. I do not agree with the fact that the exclusive development option of the various districts would be based solely on the fact that the district in the National Assembly has its representative or does not have one. The fact stated by his colleague Bukovnik that there are 27 robberies in this mandate, of which there are no MPs in the National Assembly, is true. I doubt, however, that the fact that, for example, Mr Bukovnik is from a district where there were no Members of Parliament, is now a Member to help these 27 counties. I am sure that Mr Bukovnik no more or no less than all of us all help to make the situation in these 27 districts better or worse. What is important for the functioning of democracy is that the system is fair, transparent, equal for all that co-financing by the State for certain municipal projects is not dependent on lobbying, but depends on meeting the conditions, such as the integration of a particular country into the European Union. If the country meets the standards, it shall be accepted. This is what we expected when we included ourselves, and we must probably also do so with all the others who wish to join the European Union. The same should apply to all districts and to all congregations in order to have confidence in state authorities in order to do things transparently. And it is up to us, as the legislator, to regulate the system so that some abuses will not even be possible, and it is up to the Minister of Public Administration and all public officials to implement these regulations in a way that the letter of law will be respected. Still, as has been said by the Minister, I believe that everyone can run in all elections. However, it is logical that no one will be able to have two functions. All of us who are full - time workers here have done some other work before that, which, of course, is now no longer available. And it's in our own right mind. And in the case of functions, that's obviously not the case. Therefore, once again, I say that we must be Members of Parliament to set an example in addressing these shortcomings in our democratic system and that we must therefore start on our own. Later steps will follow, some have already been mentioned by the Minister, and I believe that there will also be some changes at the local level regarding the rules, who can and how to be a member of local legislative bodies of municipal and city councils. It is obvious that the public wants this and, sooner or later, this solution will come to this country, if not through this or any other law, at the initiative of the legislator who is over us. If not, but with the only one who has yet to say so, the best of God above us, they are electors and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! I don't support the amendment. Why? The incompatibilities of the parliamentary and mayoral functions are not new; all previous attempts have fallen into the water for one simple reason, because this is a strong lobby of mayors who have an influence in Parliament on their fellow Members of the MPs. The law was supposed to bring some novelties and be more modern or comparable to similar laws abroad, and it would also be co-ordinated in the country. As we can see, he encountered opposition mainly from the mayors - Members who are against the incompatibility of the functions of the MP and the mayor. This is further proof that it is a strong lobby of mayors who have an influence in Parliament on their fellow Members of the MPs, since the number 53 in Parliament means something. The MP is a representative of all the people, while the mayor is a representative of his local community and must represent the interests of people in his own congregation. Such duality is certainly not compatible. And to summarize when they were talking about money. Surely one of the mayor’s interests is also a profit, for I have never heard anyone give up the money offered to the congregation. In any case, they're privileged. If, as the mayors say, pensioners should also receive pensions at a time when they are Members, they should not receive them. The mayor already has ten functions at the state and future provincial level. These functions are enforceable and also legislative; he may be mayor and Member, representative function, representing the municipality and municipal council, citing and chairing a meeting of the municipal council, having a proposed function, being the only budget and final account proponent; appointing and dismissing the director of the municipal administration and the sub-district, having a presidential function, being the head of the municipal administration, being the guardian of the rule of law in the municipal function. The second step in legal decision-making in municipal and original jurisdiction, has protocol tasks, represents the municipality in the Community of Municipalities, the Union of Municipalities, the councils of local public services, is a member of the KOS in charge of the administrative unit, has powers in exceptional circumstances, is to be a member of the council of municipalities in the provinces in the future. In addition, he is already in the oversight bodies of the public institutions of which the congregation co-owners. As we can see, he has a lot of functions, a lot of work. If he devotes himself to all of this, he has enough to do with the congregation. When are the mayors gonna find out these two functions aren't compatible? Once we have adopted the Rules of Procedure, when a direct vote will be introduced in the National Assembly and when it will no longer be on the committees and commissions to replace fellow Members of the parliamentary groups. Then there will be no more time for the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try again to justify why I'm going to oppose this amendment and why I'm going to uphold the law. It has been repeatedly stressed that we are interfering with constitutional rights. Once again, we have heard in the debate of our colleague Bogovic that everyone has the right to be elected. The fact is that this right will also exist in the future, whether we adopt this law or not. This law is without prejudice to the right, and anyone will be able to run and be able to become either an MP or a mayor. Before I became mayor, I was a free journalist or an MP. Before I became an MP, I was a free journalist. But I'm not a journalist anymore. The code wouldn't allow the press to do that. It wouldn't be hygienic to perform both functions. And we know exactly why. Every profession, every profession has its own meaning in society. Especially when we're talking about political functions. And it is in political functions that the divisions between the executive and the legislative authorities are very clear or should be very clear. After eighteen years of democracy, we are obviously still in transition. Transition also means that we are trying to metabolise the essential values of parliamentary democracy. This process of metabolism also includes an attempt to finally resolve the issue that we promise in the coalition contract, as it is written down. Therefore, I am surprised by the coalition colleagues' arguments that belong to the opposition. I understand, however, that the opposition is very interested in stopping such a law, which is its business, or most in the opposition, probably not interested in the success of such a law. Above all, I am surprised that we hear such arguments in the coalitions, which are moving away from that principled agreement of this coalition, which listens to the general will of the public of citizens and citizens who expect concrete answers from us. The government has set itself the goal of preventing some incompatibility from further setting a gap between the political authorities in this country. And this marriage is a step in this direction. If we are to go back to substantive reasons, why such a law should be supported. We have already heard a lot of information on how you can lobby better from the mayor's position in the National Assembly than other citizens and citizens can lobby. And this is very useful for a specific local community. However, it is not always beneficial in terms of general, social and national interest. That's what convinced me yesterday's debate. We've been here for hours discussing the meaning of Nature 2000. And it was very touching how different perspectives inspire mayors and some other Members. To the mayors, Natura 2000 is almost an excessive matter, something that should be changed, something that should be affected because they do not have free time for local development in their local areas. But more broadly, in the context of the interests of the whole of Slovenia and the whole society, respect for and implementation of that program and those nature conservation networks is still an important thing. This conflict of interest was significant in yesterday's debate and was justified, it was legitimate. Mayors legitimately place their interests, including in a budget that we will briefly vote on, how many items there are where there are really serious dilemmas in the Group, whether we would support or not, because there are items arising solely from lobbying local interests. And we are aware of this, it is inevitable that gold is inevitable if we have almost a third of the Members who also perform the mayoral function. But we will come to a situation where discrimination against the 24 privileged municipalities that have the mayor in this House will also be reflected in the structure of the budget. And for family peace and to achieve the greatest possible consensus, we will vote in favour of such a budget. Or not. If we wanted to remain consistent, ethical and anti-discrimination, we could have problems with a number of items. And that is what really convinces us that a systematic solution to the problem of discrimination arising from lobbying one part of the congregations, those municipalities that can reach the National Assembly, which have very favourable opportunities in their own environment to elect a Member, who is also the mayor. And this mayor will effectively lobby the government itself in his client, in his coalition, in the National Assembly, and legitimately lobby it. If I were the mayor, I'd still be engaged for the interests of my local community and my community. And here I do not condemn the doing of Members, who are also mayors. It makes sense, and thank God they're acting that way. But to prevent this from happening in future mandates, it is only right to resolve this systemicly. We will burden the mayors, we will burden the Members, we will enable Members and mayors to do better and to improve their work and we will burden the state of legitimate suspicion that there is a systematic mix-up, a conflict between the interests of local executives and the state legislative authorities. Once again, why aren't the ministers in this National Assembly? We have also had these cases in the European Union, in some countries, that ministers were also Members at the same time, that state secretaries were Members at the same time. But that stopped. All countries have understood that this is not functional for democracy. The same pattern should also be applied to other authorities, to local authorities. It is important to be aware that the legitimate local interest is also in the National Assembly or in the State Council, that it will have to be regulated and that the legislation and regionalisation of Slovenia will have to be finally amended, by reshaping perhaps the State Council, by forming a body that is supposed to be similar to the Senate, where it is possible to express the will and interests of local communities, I think we will gradually define and profile a system that will not discriminate against any one. But it takes a step forward and this marriage is the right step. That is why I call on all colleagues, in particular from the coalition, not to miss this opportunity to prove their status, as Brulc has demonstrated well that their status does not condition the decision taken on behalf of the public interest. And this is about public interest. Let us allow this public and public interest to believe in the transparency of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Why wrap words in a cellophane if you can easily say it? Why can't the mayor be a Member or vice versa? Two horses can't ride at the same time. If we do one job successfully, suffer another. And vice versa. I am sure that only a personal interest is present here, as the mayoral award is not negligible in addition to the parliamentary salary. It is quite a bit of money, in the end it represents four average wages in the economy or guaranteed or two average wages in the economy. That's a fact. If we are talking about why so many mayors are in the National Assembly, we need to be honest again. Those who are here have the opportunity to knock on the ministers' sleeves at least once a month because we have meetings. Ministers usually react in such a way that the desire is not too great, that the desire is also met. Lobby is, of course, more at the forefront of those who have the opportunity and access to ministers. As a result, the mayors who are not in the National Assembly are in an unequal position. That's true. At least once a month, he suffers from work. I am a saint in the Municipality of Séžana, and I can say that just when the meeting is held in the National Assembly, usually Mr. Klun and I cannot attend a meeting of the municipal council, or vice versa, because there is a meeting here. At least that's what happened in this term. Either I leave here and then I pay 100 euros for not being in the vote, or I am not in the municipal council, where important matters are also decided. Incompatibilities are 100% present. We can't do it on time. As far as the material is concerned. Both at the municipal level and at the national constituency level there are parent labour bodies dealing with the problem. One on a local level, the other on a national level. Being present on all these committees, because if you are a saint or a mayor you must attend this too, it is virtually impossible. If I snore. It is not possible to perform one function and another properly. But if we're talking about some people wanting to be [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] and in addition to performing the mayoral function and other functions, we can conclude that this is probably a desire for additional earnings and essentially a personal interest and nothing else. [[..]] We also have the mayor of Mr Bogdan Barovic, and we have been proposing first to essentially define this incompatibility by law. Why? Because our mayor said it wasn't possible to do both. The fact is, these two things really aren't compatible and they have to suffer work somewhere. Those who say they're capable of doing this are all-powerful.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	I'm calling again, even though I've been quoted. I am not talking about constitutional categories, but about practices across Europe that we usually look at when implementing such laws. And I was talking about how in Bavaria these half-functions are compatible, in Germany, Austria, Belgium and so on. Otherwise, perhaps just one sentence, Minister, to you who replied that you would insist on this effort. I must say, when you mentioned why you would insist - because you found that the poll was such a public opinion. Two days ago, I heard one criticism of the acknowledged Mrs Martha Kos, who evaluated the work of the President of the Government and said that this was a well-dressed conductor, who made one fundamental mistake to turn against the audience, not his orchestra, which is totally "declared" and does not perform his functions, but otherwise looks good. I mean, today you've just confirmed that looks are important, looks are important, what people are hearing, what people are thinking, and in the procedure and in the statement to pass on such proposals, such laws as have public support. I think you have, as Minister of Public Administration, at a time when gross social income is falling, when public spending is already reaching almost 50% of the gross social income, when the health system is falling apart, when the pension fund is falling apart, when we have in the budget, let our public know that, too, 5%, 6% of the deficit, but that means that we have more than 20% of the budget deficit. We spend 770, 780 euros a month, and we spend a thousand euros paraphrasing not some relationship that is at wage level. In this country we have a kindergarten where the price of kindergartens is equal to the minimum wage. We have a nursing home where there's two minimum wages. We have expectations for pensioners that the salary will be so great, we have great poverty, we already have close to 100,000 unemployed today, the most unsightly predictions are that half a year can be obtained. And in the face of such problems, in the face of such things, the primary priority is to force such laws. Once again, firmly, first in the government in the coalition, count and come with such a law when it is able to vote. Right now, I think you have a very separate opinion. And if this precious time is to be spent today, I think you're doing very wrong. Another minister responsible for the economy also has a high rating. It was found that managers should be attacked, owners should be attacked, but I think that something should be done on tax legislation, done to promote the economy, in this work. I am afraid that if the measure of success is merely a public opinion and, above all, a public opinion, the identification of opinion polls and public opinion, which is also an integral part of our work, it will be a criterion that will be spent even days, as was the case today in Parliament for this debate, which you say is impossible. I don't think you've done your job the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. If I call again at this point. To talk about how those local parts or those local communities are privileged, from which mayors - MPs come, is simply not true. It is not, however, that the other parts of which the Members come from, that they may not strive and care for the area from which they come. I have not yet met an MEP from Primorska to come to the Slovenian Mountains or Haloze to see how and what. Not even when the elementary accidents were really bad and things went bad. To talk about the fact that this is not compatible, that it is contrary to the Constitution, etc. I think you're smiling, especially those who are still lawyers. 15 years, 16 years running, since we have local communities of mayors and MPs. All legislation, which has also been adopted with such Members - mayors, then irregular, invalid, etc., is unconstitutional. That's not true. It is also different in Europe when you refer to European directives, but you are wrong. However, it is true, colleagues and colleagues, and of course the "declared" government orchestra, the question is how long will it take for everyone to cry for himself. It is true, however, that we are the only country in this Europe precisely because of this "declared" orchestra, because we have only two levels because we have only local and national. An ex-arm orchestra that some people are reading to him, you're saying it worked under his hard arm. He worked, he ruled, and he created, he did bring six marriages six feet tall. Indeed, at first he coordinated with the opposition, and only then did Minister Žagar come into the coalition, and we also agreed with some of the solutions because the opposition also supported them. One such solution by the opposition to regionalisation was that it demanded and wanted a single system. You know that former Minister Dr. Virant wanted to introduce the so-called two-tier system into the legislation. And since this was the support of the opposition, including some members of the coalition, we supported it and found a common point. And this is now the quality that the "declared" orchestra does not have, before it comes with such important matters, to coordinate not only with the coalition, but also with the opposition. That's not what happened this year. I'm not gonna say it's the most important thing. Where are you going? Far from it! But to talk, colleagues and colleagues, that there are some polls and that's something that's so important. Mayors, look at these polls! No, Minister, Government, look at the results of the election, look at the elections, the elections are the most important polls. By the way, something was obvious to me, but I am a Member in seven municipalities and in two residential quarters, more than 26,000 people, and in seven municipalities I got a run for office, not because of you, because of some Ljubljana's centralists and so on, I wouldn't get 25 votes, but I got 47%. Not for the first time. Second, after eight years. Why? Apparently, I don't just work roads and sidewalks or, what I know, for the congregation of Destrinik. No, no, no. We have accepted and done, we have analysed the Return to Public Telecommunications Act, for which the mayors of the opposition have indeed taken the most part in the previous term. And that's why the Slovenian people got something back. Minister, it would be good, it would be good to come, I will say, with more prepared legislation and, of course, also in line with the opposition, but not like the agreement with Croatia when you want to spend this loving country on us. And you're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I am really sorry, when the arguments are missing, that there is usually some kind of disqualification and even this is unargued, by the two honourable Members, Mr Bogovic, Mr Pukšič. I was not talking about a public opinion poll, I was talking about the way the Ministry of Public Administration operates, which, due to the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation in the field of the Anti-Corruption Act, which falls within your mandate, has drafted the Integrity Act. An integral part of this law was also a provision defining the same regime as it is now before us, on the basis of a novel proposed by the four coalition groups. As they have assessed that this Article on incompatibility does not fall under the Intergrite Act, it is systematically more relevant to the regulation of the non-compatibilities of the function of the Member States with others in the Law on Members. Your message was that I should rather be working as the Minister of Public Administration on the issue of the crisis in this area. I had a bad conscience or public opinion all the time, and I want to tell you this, and when the law was in public debate for a month and more, people responded to the website. We thanked them for their comments. But in an important part, it was reported that it was necessary for these two functions to be separated. And once again, they didn't speak abusively about the mayors, which is what I wanted to report earlier to the distinguished mayors, which you are also Members of Parliament. But their expectations are that because of the complexity of both functions, when they elect the mayor, they want a mayor who is available to them all the time. Members are assessed that these functions are extremely important, so as to ensure that they perform this function alone. In this direction, I wanted to report this majority support to the people who have come forward in the public debate on this novel. In the second part, when you wanted to report that as a district minister, I'm coming up with some strange suggestions. Many of the proposals you have considered in Parliament are due to the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation. New Act on the Public Sector Wage System in respect of Judicial Wages. It's been six months. You have also read to me from this very place why I am dealing with a question that does not belong to this Parliament in the wake of the crisis. The Integrity Act also regulates the anti-constitutional situation in the area of the Anti-Corruption Act and will therefore be on the agenda. At the same time, of course, there have been a lot of measures that, of course, touch on a very public-financial situation, where, of course, I agree with your assessment that consumption in the public sector has to be adjusted to reduced flows into the state budget. And since January, with the first negotiations, we have been a public sector union, with a savings of 100 million, with other negotiations in September, where we have saved in the field of public service labour policy an additional 300 354 million. So the first rebalancing, the second rebalancing, the second rebalancing savings in the area of costs, material costs, the reduction of public procurement in the public sector by 200 to 300 million. These were all measures that were not simple. Never in the past have officials actually prepared austerity programmes to reduce public spending, because it was simply not possible to divert resources to exactly where you said they had to - in the field of active employment policy and at least in an important part in development and assistance to the economy and to promote progress in technological development, science and research. These were not simple tasks, we all did in the government. Of course, the Ministry of Public Administration has played a coordinating role here and has played a role as a proponent of wage policy in the public sector. All other measures, which we are also actively implementing at the Ministry, are aimed at improving the competitiveness of the economy. The removal of administrative barriers takes place intensively, the implementation of all of this, by making obvious [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Then, honourable fellow Members, please tell us, of course, because everyone in their ten-minute debate has been reading, has precisely reduced the measures we have not carried out, and therefore we are dealing with irrelevant topics. [[...]] Democracy, the expectations of voters and voters have, of course, been a major response to the crisis in the public sector as well, and I believe that the public sector response was appropriate. The dissatisfaction of civil servants with wage policy in 2009 and 2010 is great, extremely great. The annexes that they had prepared and would entail additional burdens in 2010, because of your government's commitment to get higher wages, we took them away. And that means freezing and stopping wage reform. It is not right to say that the public sector does not share the reality. Public servants also express this dissatisfaction with high levels of dissatisfaction. I would really like the novels proposed by the parliamentary groups to be adopted also because of the overwhelming support of the electorates and voters, which were expressed not only in the public debate process, but also in the public opinion polls carried out by the media, not in the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I wasn't going to call, but there were some things that were said, and I think in a few sentences I'm going to explain that things don't work that way. First, I would like to say that I have no problem in combining the functions of mayor- MP. I am not even a congregation councilman, nor am I a local community, which some would like to break with this law, so I can speak very freely. First of all, I would like to refer to what has been said in many ways to discrimination against municipalities whose mayors are not Members. That's right. But, Your Honor, allow me to ask you what a respected colleague has said before me, and on the other hand. Last but not least, since every congregation does not have a Member, and not least every constituency does not have a Member. We heard the data on what it looked like. Isn't that discrimination that every constituency doesn't have an MP? But who made it impossible? This was prevented by those who played by the referendum on the majority electoral system so that we put the electoral system into the Constitution. Excuse me, gentlemen, those who are the loudest today that this is incompatible, and how discrimination against municipalities that do not have a mayor of parliament has made it impossible even that not every constituency of its Member. Those who opposed the majority electoral system did so. But today you turned the board around and you say some kind of angel face. First of all, I'd like to ask you to sweep under your own doorstep. Next thing you know, I'll tell you what I want to say. The motioner, I am sorry that she is not here, said that this law or bill that we are considering today will fall because the opposition is against it. She was pointing at us. Excuse me, those who followed this debate today saw that there were groups in each party, whether they were mayors of this I don't know, I won't define myself who have concerns, even on the part of the proponents. Therefore, do not speak, your esteemed proposaler, who is not here now, that this law will fall because of the opposition. If he falls, he will fall because the general mood in all the parties is about the same, because there are a few people everywhere who feel hurt. Well, that's justifiable because there's been a few gallbladders, and that's justifiable. On the one hand, the mayor bragged. On the other hand, yes, and you can't be around. That's two-faced. The fact is, if this law falls today, it will not fall because of the opposition. Then we will review the vote and see how it is. What's most important and why I didn't want to come forward is that this law is one of those, besides the electoral system law, but I don't know what else is constitutional change, so that we don't get to see the current situation that is most pressing in the area of unemployment and bankruptcy. This is the topic that is most important in Slovenia at the moment. But we do, because we have to because someone has made a law, and we have to deal with it, and we have to deal with the incompatibilities of the mayor and the MP, and some electoral system. That's what's important. It is also essential that Slovenia falls behind twice or three times the EU in this period, but we were twice as good a year earlier, twice as fast as the EU. That is the point, and that is why we now have a law that blurs out the actual situation. Now it is not too serious, but it is true, as far as saving is concerned, given that we have heard something about saving today. I'm sorry, that's a "gut," but yes. See, the two functions of the mayor and the Member of Parliament, because the Member of Parliament has a professional function of 100% pay for the function of the MP and 40% for the mayor. Now I'm asking you, would it be better if these two functions were to have a 100 percent payout? If we are talking about saving, let us acknowledge that this is probably savings. Doesn't mean I'm in or out. I didn't even determine how I was going to vote on that. The fact is, if we're talking about one thing, then let's be consistent and see what the actual situation is. Once again, if the marriage fails, it will not fall because of the opposition. Look at each vote in their own party and who will be the one or what will cause it to fall if even the answer is necessary, why it falls. We are probably Members in order to vote and we probably don't have to account specifically for why we voted that way. There is probably no criminal responsibility for this if you vote in favour and there is probably no criminal responsibility if you vote against it. I think we all get that. But if you're talking about what's going to make a marriage go down, then let each of you sweep through your own doorstep, let's see what's in his own house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. That is why I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. It's on a defensive motion for a resolution on normal activity. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The next resolution is proof that we are also doing something else and doing important systemic things. At least I hope you'll be united here. The motion for a resolution before you today, the resolution on normative activities is a legal policy act, contains an assessment of the state of play in the area of policy preparation and regulation. The assessment is not a good one, not a goal for the conduct of the previous government, but rather for the conduct of all governments since independence. However, it is undeniable that the country has already committed itself to the Lisbon Strategy in 2000 to introduce and implement the principles of better legislation in the country. These are principles, four principles, which are supposed to assess the effects of regulations, on all layers of life, the social position of an individual, the position of small businesses, the environment and so on. Another principle is the simplification of legislation. Thirdly, removing administrative barriers that cause unnecessary costs to businesses and citizens, and in particular cooperation with the public in the preparation of regulations. A number of external public documents testify that we do not implement these principles in a systematic and appropriate manner, and in the introduction of the resolution we find this reality. This is the 2007 report of the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the 2007 report of the sigma, then the 2007 report on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, is not good. We want to respond to this resolution and address these shortcomings. In the text of the resolution, we have set a binding framework for every single current government to respect all four principles in the policy-making process in a consistent manner, namely that, to sum it up, the following: Every regulation will have to be at least 30 to 60 days in the preparation process in the public debate, this will be a procedural standard. The public, which will be included and will give an opinion and will be invited to participate, will have to respond to this opinion in a reasoned manner. We will carry out an assessment of the effects of the regulations consistently on all areas affecting our lives, at the same time the legislation will have to be prepared by means of a sub-legislative act, the fact that we have a regulation today, and on this regulation below 60 and more sub-legislative acts, thus clouding the legal situations and policies that the individual regulation has wanted to achieve, giving rise to legal danger, various decisions of the administrative and judicial authorities and pushing our citizens and businesses into such a legally uncertain situation. Systems operate in such an uncoordinated way that the situation is very, very worrying. Exception. However, in these cases, each current government will have to evaluate and assess the impact of this regulation on the area to which it has targeted. Why did we bring this resolution to the National Assembly? All current authorities have already written down these practices in the existing Rules of Procedure, but we do not implement them, neither does the current government in the processes of its conduct this year. This regulation, even as recommended by the OECD, stipulates that all current governments will report twice to the highest legislative body that you are Members and Members of the National Assembly during their term of office on how these principles are adhered to in this resolution. Also civil society, non-governmental organisations will report this procedural standard of non-cooperation to you for a minimum of 30 to 60 days, and I hope that we will ensure the following, there will also be a lot of regulations that we will adopt in the Government and will operationalise this resolution, by the way, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure and instructions has already been annexed to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. At its 9th session, on 2 October 2009 and 10th session, on 29 October 2009, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft resolution on normative activities as a work force. The proposal was submitted by the Government. Members and members of the Committee also had at their disposal the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the letter from the Ministry of Public Administration and the Government's Law Services with proposals for amendments to the Committee. The Minister informed the Committee of some of the facts we have just heard. The representative of the Legislative-Legal Service, however, warned that some of the warnings from the Legal and Legislative Services were taken into account in the Committee's amendments proposals and she again gave a warning to Chapter 7, that is, the implementation of a resolution which is too binding in some parts. That was her opinion. In the debate, opposition Members voiced fear that the proposed resolutions will not be implemented in practice because of its political and unfair nature. They proposed to highlight the principle of target orientation and to focus the regulation on only one objective, thereby minimizing its side effects. The coalition Members agreed with the proposed resolution, as the practice so far on the procedure and content of decision-making in the National Assembly is such. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Chapters 4 and 6 and adopted its amendments, i.e. amendments to Chapters 4 and 6. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated motion for a resolution, which is an integral part of the report you have received, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. While the resolution on normative activities is named by its name, it discourages the attention of the public concerned from its content. In contrast to its name, the content of the resolution is still quite interesting and important, as in the process of preparing, adopting and evaluating legislation it brings extremely important innovations that will affect a wide range of stakeholders. The resolution on normative activities provides tools to ensure the adoption of better legislation in Slovenia. The resolution responds to questions on how to reduce the number of regulations, how to increase their understanding, how to reduce the scope of sub-legislative rules and, above all, how to ensure that the systemic policies that we adopt by law achieve their objectives and objectives. In the Group of Members, we really welcome the sincerity of the Ministry of State and Government, which, in its explanation for the resolution, recognises that it will take a more decisive and effective step in adopting legislation by adopting a resolution on normative activities. Since the resolution also goes beyond the mandate of the current government, it also commits the future to taking into account the principles of modern participatory democracy in the drafting of legislation. In the parliamentary group, we expect opposition groups to support it as well. The recommendations of the OECD and the Ombudsman aimed at improving the systems for assessing the effects of regulations and involving the public concerned in the preparation of the rules in the Group are indeed considered important motives in the preparation of the resolution. In addition, in the Group of Members, we also stress the important expectations and constitutional right of citizens and citizens, both in formal and informal professional or interest associations, to enable them to cooperate on an equal footing and to take account of their opinions and views in the procedures for formulating the rules in a timely and equitable manner. In accordance with the Lisbon Strategy and the principles of the Treaty of Lisbon, the resolution on normative activities allows us, in cooperation with the public, to establish an effective assessment of the effects of regulations, to allow simplified legislation and to remove a number of administrative obstacles. The resolution brings modern principles of the new policy to Slovenia as it allows the adoption of regulations to constantly assess the effects of the rules on citizens, the economy and the local environment. In their impact, they will be presented up-to-date to the National Assembly and also to the public concerned. Indeed, we will support the proposed resolution in the Group of Members, and we express our sincere expectation that the current government will prove that the resolution on normative activities can be respected and applied, although it does not constitute a legal norm. However, as long as there is not enough to achieve the objectives and purposes of the resolution, we are already calling on the Ministry to draw up a legal framework for normative activities in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister with co-workers. The content of the proposed resolution concerns a broader area of normative activities, which are carried out by the Government, the Ministry and other bodies with public authority and local community bodies. While it is a binding act, it is only politically binding, so in fact we do not see any drastic positive developments in this direction. Members of the DeSUS are of the opinion that the drafting of the texts of the laws and regulations and of the way in which they are adopted today are properly regulated. On the basis of the rules in force, a permanent practice has also been developed, which is largely followed. The rules relating to regulatory activity shall be both enforceable and legislative branches of the authority. In addition to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we also take into account the nominal technical guidelines when adopting acts. We can conclude from a mere scrutinisation of this act that this resolution also covers the procedural work of the National Assembly itself in a large part, but it follows from the additional explanation of the competent minister that it is primarily intended to create uniform frameworks and criteria for the executive branch, with the aim of establishing better legislation in our country. The definitions included in this motion for a resolution are practically identical to the principles and guidelines currently in force, but unfortunately they are not always taken into account, so there is a rapid change in the rules without analysing an area without the professional public, and consequently this has a bearing on the mere implementation of the regulation in practice as well as on the effectiveness of the rules of procedure. Even under the current criteria, for example, all sub-legislative acts to which the regulation applies should be tabled together with a proposal for a law, but that is not the case today. Why should this be answered by the drafters? The resolution under consideration, of course, also includes such a procedure, and we only hope that this will be taken into account in the future on the basis of the resolution adopted. The resolution defines a number of other actions and actions that are intended to be the basis for the design and adoption of quality and transparent acts and Members of the DeSUS will not oppose this. More than happy to be included in the Explanation of the Consequences of the Law or Act, where an assessment of the financial consequences of individual groups or categories of people is proposed. Such an assessment is necessary in our view, as in the past acts have been adopted too often, which have had positive financial effects on public finances, either on the state or on the local municipal budget, and in fact have had negative effects on the financial situation of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite the fact that this has been pointed out and that acts have sometimes not been adequately prepared in this respect, or that certain solutions have been disproportionate to or to the financial burden on individuals, such acts have been adopted in the past. Members of the DeSUS are therefore of the view that the inclusion of such an assessment in the draft act is necessary, and therefore will certainly receive our support. On our part, it will also be supported by the full updated text of the resolution on normative activity in the hope that the guidelines and guidance on how to approach the drafting of the text will be taken into account in future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We believe in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party in the well-intention of the proposed resolution, because it is an important document which is supposed to fundamentally change the way our regulations are drawn up. We support a more serious approach to the drafting of regulations and that it would no longer happen, let's say that a proposal for a law has more amendments than the articles themselves. In our view, regulations, and even more difficult codifications, should be drawn up after several years. Then stay like in other countries for decades, not to change all the time. The importance of quality regulations was already recognized by the previous government, and the ongoing efforts are understood as continuing the work already started. We expect that the resolution on normative activities will also be followed by a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and if it is also adopted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which will provide for a different structure of government materials and a single proposal on which government materials are being prepared, which will contribute to greater uniformity of government materials. It would also be important and necessary to establish a mechanism that will allow monitoring of the regulation and its impact throughout the whole time to be noticed immediately, for example, if a regulation causes too many legal disputes, if it is received or not, if it is not implemented poorly or at all. Among a number of other requirements in the resolution is the special mention of the so-called package treatment of laws, which means that one law will no longer change another law, so that even lawyers do not know in which law something is regulated, but in which case a package of laws will have to be submitted which, as a whole, will bring about a systemic change in our legal order. Although this requirement seems good to us, we unfortunately doubt that it will be fully implemented. There are also some questions related to voting on such a package or individual laws from it in the State Council or in the referendum. However, we are convinced that these problems are solved and that the objective pursued by package treatment, namely the legal correctness and transparency of legal changes, is certainly worth the effort. Finally, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, let me just say that we hope that efforts for better regulation will not only remain at the level of normative frameworks and methodologies, but will be supported by appropriate organisational measures, education, motivation and ultimately by the social recognition of the work of people who implement and implement our rules. We therefore believe that the resolution is a step in the right direction and that is why we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. Of course, we support the motion for a resolution on normative activities in the Slovenian National Party. We support this for one simple reason, as it is the intention of this resolution to change the practice of continuous regulatory changes so far, which leads to the lack of transparency and instability of the rule of law. It is necessary to monitor the improvement of the situation and greater compliance with the legal order and the coherence of laws which are substantively linked. The creation of regulations and the provision of legal certainty must be the objective of every government, no matter what colour it is, and must not be subject to the interests of a Member, individuals and parties. The rules must be clear and unambiguous and should minimise the side effects of the regulation, as only such rules guarantee legal order and equality before the law. Simplification should be monitored and the practice of existing governments, which have proved inappropriate and to prevent duplication of rules with clarity. Greater coherence of the acquis is necessary and it is appropriate to amend the legislation. As I have already said, we will also support the proposal for a resolution on normative activities in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	Yes, here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and as a former President, and also on behalf of my colleagues, members of the foreign policy committee, I propose to you, Mr President, that a little before the third hour of half an hour, the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended so that Members can attend the greeting in honour of our third hour footballers. In fact, it is rare that Slovenia is better on a global issue than the world's. Yesterday this happened, and our football players, at a brilliant game where they proved to be the best ambassadors of Slovenia's reputation in the world, outplayed their opponent and joined the World Cup. I think that this is an act, when the National Assembly in some way has to show that we look forward to them. The ones we were at last night's game, we already did. Not all of these opportunities have been or have not been present, and we must experience this spontaneous Slovenian joy, which has earned birth. Mr President, I hope that you will make such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I agree with everything you have said, but allow me to think a little bit and to ask what, in this case, when it comes to a regular meeting of the National Assembly, we can do to satisfy what you have proposed. Therefore, we continue with the agenda item, Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	Dear President, Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. By means of a resolution of the normative activity, we want to continue to highlight better legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in the work on writing, in the work that touches the work of the Government, that is to say in the part where the Government in a particular area has to draw up a policy and present it to the National Assembly below for admission. In Slovenia, we often find that we have too many regulations, that we have too many regulations under law, that policies that have wanted to be implemented through regulations do not achieve their objectives of being poorly enforced or under-supervised. We estimate that we need to stop and improve this area. That is exactly what this resolution is intended for, which means the commitment of every current political authority or government to take into account in the drafting of regulations principles that are recognised as contributing to better legislation. In 2007, the OECD presented a report on regulatory leadership in Slovenia. This extensive document clearly recommends that Slovenia improve the systems for assessing the effects, regulations and involvement of the public concerned in the preparation of regulations. It was recommended that the Government should specify the procedure or methodology for carrying out the assessments and consultations with the public concerned. The Lisbon Strategy sets out the principles of good legislation, such as continuing to assess the effects of regulations, simplifying legislation, removing administrative barriers and working with the public. In the reports received in this part of the European Union, it notes that in implementing these measures, we are walking in some areas in Slovenia. The audit report of the Court of Auditors of March 2007 entitled Are we in Slovenia checking the effects of the proposed rules on society? Notes that there are, however, certain legal bases which impose obligations to carry out an impact analysis in the regulatory process, but are not carried out consistently in practice because the Government has not taken a systematic approach to the issue. This resolution is a commitment that will significantly define the legislative process and we hope that this resolution will bear fruit in the coming year. That is why we will also support the resolution on normative activities in the Liberal Democrats' Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will give his position to the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Rarely is such unity between coalitions, opposition and government. I think this is a good thing, but the question is whether, even when we are two over a year, we will assess whether we have succeeded in an ideally designed resolution and ideally designed legislative procedures will really be more consistent than we have ever implemented. In our parliamentary group, we support the draft resolution, we think it is necessary, it is good, but we want the Government and, after all, we in the National Assembly to be very successful in its implementation. It will not be easy to change the practice that we have had so far when we have adopted too many laws, uncoordinated laws among ourselves, according to procedures that have been mainly urgent and reduced, and, as the Minister has said, in this mandate, we have not been better at this than in previous mandates, when we have not cooperated sufficiently with civil society and when we have often, even with the adoption of legislation, caused confusion and reduced the legal security of people, as things have changed several times in the mandate. Let us hope that these are the promises and objectives of this resolution that this will no longer be true in the future. We want everyone and let's help this happen as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grims, on behalf of the SDS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	Respectable. Also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the SDS, everyone has a very nice greeting. Each resolution has its own purpose in reflecting certain values and, of course, the text adopted is in line with actual behaviour, including this resolution. However, as it is in practice, let us take a closer look at a few cases, and it will be clearer why this resolution is indeed going on. Indeed, the principle of simplification will also be found among the fundamental principles of the resolution itself. One of its indents prevents the amendment of one regulation with provisions in another regulation, which was defined by Minister Krebsov at a meeting of the Committee as something that causes, I quote: "The instability of the legal system". That's what the words are. In practice, this proposal is exactly the same coalition that reached into the referendum passed by the Law on RTV Slovenia and raised the level of payment of the RTV contribution by amending the Law on the implementation of the budget, because it knew that it avoided the possible referendum and hid it from the public in the flood of other information that was present in the budget. It is said that the coalition advocates in its words that one regulation should not be amended by provisions in another regulation. In practice, however, that is exactly what it does when, of course, it does so, even when it is extremely undemocratic, illegal, which interferes with the referendum-confirmed text of the law and thus, as the Minister has said, the existing coalition causes the instability of the legal system. What is the purpose of the resolution, then? Let's look at another case. In the same indent, the same principle, we find the following formulation that implies clear, specific and generally understandable rules, the correct and uniform use of professional terms, codification of particular areas, etc. How's that working out in practice? Exactly from the same government we received a novel in the field of higher education. The text presented by the same Government, which advocates this principle in its words, was corrected by the same coalition by final vote on the amended amendment to the amendment replacing the wrong amendment to the basic text. And then you talk about professionally prepared texts. All that I was talking about, the amendment, the amendment to the amendment, the amendment itself, and the basic amendment with which the wrong amendment was replaced, was tabled by the ruling coalition itself. And you are talking about the professional preparation of texts and this for such an area as science and higher education, when it comes to fundamental issues of the development of the country of Slovenia. It is said, in the words again, in the actions of something completely different. In fact, the following must be found. The resolution itself is welcome, because it will provide a reference that will be much better exposed to the huge difference, the diametric contradiction between the words and actions of the Government and the ruling coalition in practice. On the other hand, we can only wish that it would come to life. At the same time, however, we fear that, in fact, this resolution is the only way in practice to justify its existence, so that the people whose actions will be in line with the words will carry it out, unlike in the previous two cases, I have indicated to the ruling coalition that, therefore, the only way to achieve it is by early elections. The SDS will, of course, support this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the discussion on the chapter and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 18 June 2016. 11. 2009 By chapter four, we have two amendments to the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you. Our amendment is to at least try to prevent the National Assembly, if the coalition itself wants to, from making a mockery of the actions in total diametric conflict with the words that are otherwise enshrined in this resolution and which we support in the SDS. In particular, we propose to delete the seventh indent with the second amendment and to introduce an additional indent with the first amendment, which is the principle of targeted orientation. The principle of target orientation means that each regulation should focus on the objective of the problem to be addressed and minimise any side effects. This kind of contains all those definitions that you have written in some chapters of this resolution, but at the same time at least complements and partially corrects those shortcomings that I have mentioned earlier. In fact, the fundamental question is why the resolution is actually put forward in such a form if, in practice, the conduct of the coalition sees a diametric contradiction to its own words. Two, three cases I've given you to repeat. When, in the principle of resolutions, a coalition advocates that one regulation should not interfere with another regulation, in practice, it intervened with the legislation when adopting the budget in a referendum. So how's that? That's the exact diametric opposite. One is the words, the actions are completely different, and then what is the meaning of the resolution? And unfortunately in the SDS, we fear that we have a very simple answer. That, in fact, it has the same red thread as that law which was dedicated to it this morning, a rather spirited morning in the National Assembly, when much debate was held about the incompatibilities of the various functions with the function of the Member State, but of course it is a function at the local level where you have captured everything in the congregations, which is not comparable to anything you would know in a developed Europe. Well, what's the real deal? It's the red thread of the whole event that we're witnessing to him right now. That's a diversion. In short, we do one thing, we say another. But we expect everyone to look at what the coalition is saying so that they wouldn't accidentally notice what the coalition is doing in practice. You've led this to almost perfection a few times. Not only in this case, when, contrary to the principle set out in the resolution in the referendum, you have intervened with the amendment of the legislation when adopting the budget, it is said to be completely contrary, not only to the total non-professionally prepared legislation in the field of higher education, where we then adopted an amended or amended amendment to the amendment to the amendment, which was incorrectly tabled, and to the basic text. All together, each proposal individually and together, has been proposed by the same coalition and you are talking about the proper application of legal terms and definitions and the clarity of the text. Again in theory one, in resolution one, in practice, acts something completely different. But this red thread I'm talking about is a diversion of attention, and if I say that you led to perfection, I think you led to perfection when you banned the publication of the catastrophic findings of Umarje in connection with the economic downturn of Slovenia for ten days in the government. And when they were finally published, what happened with such a backlog, as far as I know, for the first time in Slovenia alone, only a few hours later some arrests took place and everyone knew who was arrested and their life story. How he deplored the economic development results of the current coalition, no one knew. Even the directors I spoke to didn't know what the results were. In short, diverting attention is obviously the only tactic you know. I am just sorry that you have come to something about this resolution, which is so obvious in the face of your own actions, that in fact you are in some way smiling at the National Assembly as a whole, and I personally regret it very much. In order to avoid at least a part of this, we propose this improvement, and we expect that the coalition at the head of the target orientation, which is based on the principles themselves and which is also not far from the spirit of the resolution itself, will also support it. So much for this part. I must personally say that I would be happy to confirm the resolution even in the basic text if, of course, this was a resolution reflecting the actions of the currently ruling coalition. Unfortunately, it reflects some of the principles that I personally support, but this resolution will primarily give us a preferential model, and then we can explain even more clearly to the public how big differences are in the vocabulary of the ruling coalition and in its actions. However, there will be so much left for the next term, and then I hope that those who can fully implement this resolution will have the opportunity to do so in words and actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, at the previous warning or request of Mr Jerovšek, I was unable to consult the President, because he is not in the house, but we have decided and I have decided as President to adjourn the meeting at 2.45 p.m., that is to say now, and continue with the meeting at 15.45 p.m. Anybody else want to talk about this amendment for a couple of minutes or leave it to me? Let's leave it to then and proceed with this point. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. The meeting resumed at 3:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As announced, we continue the meeting of the National Assembly. So you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Chairman. Although he is not a colleague of Jerovska, I would thank him for this idea that we could see the reception of the football team in this beautiful capital, in Ljubljana, where the whole of Slovenia dances and jumps, sing the Avanti Popolo and I hope it is not because he is still singing there. Thank you very much. I'm sorry it's not procedural. But thanks are in order, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you for noticing your gesture yourself. We are at chapter four, which is to open an application for discussion to chapter four and two amendments to this chapter. Check-in is on. Madam Minister, you wanted to speak sooner or later. [[...]] Mr. Anderlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	This resolution is likely to be the same as with many others. It's beautifully written, and amendments can fix it or not. I, both in this and in some other resolutions, am troubled by the fact that things that should be judged from the point of view of the functioning of the various branches of government and within it should find their role, because if anything, then, of course, the National Assembly is the one who must carry out a thorough discussion of how it adopts certain acts in the procedure, how it adopts them, with what ambition it adopts, and what is, in the end, the practical gain for it itself, so that it can also later control what it has adopted, as on the other hand, also those who participate in this process and who have the right under the Constitution and under other rules to participate in this process. This resolution and these two amendments, I don't think they can fix this fundamental flaw, is actually intended or designed because it is such a trend because there are such general orientations and it would be right for us to do something. I simply miss the role of the National Assembly and this resolution should be created in cooperation, in practical knowledge between these two branches of government, legislatively and executively. Clearly, it's so intertwined, we're doing the same thing to understand each other, we just have a separate role. But we are all working for this country, adopting regulations, implementing them, and ultimately measuring the effects or ineffects of these matters. It's kind of hard for me to say whether to support or not to support this amendment, actually, because I don't see that point. However, the point is where it will be within this and how all things will be adapted to help the Rules of Procedure of the Government, the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in the terms of the European Union, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and all internal organisations to actually implement these objectives in Chapter 4. Of course, it is not possible to disagree with the principle of responsibility, the principle of certainty, and so on. There are, of course, things that are written as they are. I'm not satisfied with the answer, yes, there will be practical arrangements, measures, how to proceed. I believe that many of the resolutions adopted by the National Assembly will be very fast, but today there is a declaration that in essence means progress or a desire to change something. But if it doesn't follow and here I can't get past just looking at the whole resolution, because here it's hard to discuss only the chapters or articles that it is, is this manka of some assessment where we are, what this resolution actually brings in the direction of change as it says, that I have to say, with regard to the principle of responsibility, let's say, when there has been some talk about it today. [[...]] We have either restricted ourselves or laid down certain rules of the game by both the law on cooperation between the Government and Parliament or vice versa, in these conditions, as well as by the rules of procedure on how to proceed with the adoption of an act. But if you look at it in practice, it's something else. It's, like, budget adoption. There is a different matter in the budget, which is different from what the government thinks - whatever, there is no difference here - and MEPs decide to give a higher priority, others give less weight, and thus also redistribute money. Then, at the end of this process, there comes a harmonisation amendment, which is not, which brings the whole matter back to its base, which I think in this division of responsibility and so on, with these principles that you describe here in this section, have nothing to do with. I therefore wonder whether it is possible to expect, without sitting together - Parliament and the government and we will say, but now we will do this together and it will go back to the executive world, that we will accept something here, that the government will execute or anything, but that we will actually explain and write in, I don't know whether we will adopt a new law, or whether we will fix the law - in what I said earlier - whether it will be that the National Assembly itself will make a change of the rules of procedure and tighten up on these elements that you are referring to in this section, its responsibility. Because here, in fact, are all these principles that I agree with in principle, because that is how I think we should work all the time. This principle of simplification; since the first law was written, I do not know, a thousand years ago or how many years ago, since then, the battle against bureaucracy and the battle to simplify procedures have been fought. And it's been going on in all systems since then, believe me, Mr. Director. In all the systems of the last 20 years, since we've been sitting here, we've been adopting all the laws to simplify to make the shortcuts. For example, the Construction Act, we've changed it 100 times, 100 times! I'm overreacting, but at least five times, I'm sure. But if you ask today those who find themselves in a situation where they have to apply this law, they say that the matter is complicated to the point of disability. So the principle of simplification is here, great, I agree with that, but we have to make an implementing act. I don't know, because I'm saying, whether it's law or whatever it is, it's good that we already know by the resolution that we're saying this and we're going to do it this way. Because otherwise it will be one of the resolutions that will be beautiful, which will be on paper, which will be in the drawer, but we will do as we please. I must be disappointed to find that some of the interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, even our internal act, stem from an interpretation of the old Rules of Procedure which has not been in force since 2002. But, you can't believe, I'm meeting every day that some things can't move because they are -- I don't know if there are people here who are whether there are other mechanisms, whether it's from outside or not; but until we point these things at a practical level where it has to go, it's not a solution. Of course, now to be defined by the amendments, I believe that we can improve something, but to answer the fundamental question would be right - but if you explain it in this debate. I have already given myself some initiatives to make it good to sit down, even when it will, but I think that the Lisbon Treaty will also bring something else to Parliament as parliament if I speak now from this role in which I am. And the fact that we're going to have to do this role on our own, which is now given to us by this treaty, is that we're also going to have to do it through all these criteria and with some [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] the act must be made at the end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The discussions of the two discussers at the time of the amendment were of relevance to the cities. Mr Grims, I would like to explain further the misunderstanding - perhaps first to the content of both amendments. We have already stated on the committee under the same amendments that the text of the amendment, that is, the targeted focus as a principle - we absolutely support it, but this principle is contained clearly in the principle of the need for legal regulation, the principle of self-restraint and the principle of proportionality. If that principle only existed, there would be unnecessary duplication. The second amendment, which you have explained with the current practice of the current government, you must also admit that I am on the committee and, even today, at the opening five-minute presentation, said that the way of work so far has been the same for all current governments, including the year of this government. Thus, the criticism in the reports is due to practices that have been and are still in force today. And it's not right that they are. Our wish is to put an end to this. The key question that we faced in the preparation of the policy in this area, that is to say, how to improve the situation, was: is the existing government acts - because we set the Government's policy here in the main part, in the process of drafting regulations or policy-making - is the Government's rules of procedure that define it sufficient? Our assessment is that the Rules of Procedure of the Government today contain this - unchanged as it is. It says that the public must be involved in the process, otherwise there are no deadlines and so on, but it is written in the Government's Rules of Procedure. It is said that there is a reasonable time limit for preparing comments. The impact of the rules must be assessed in the text of the regulation. But when we ask ourselves if we are actually doing this, we can see for ourselves that it is not good enough. The mirror, however, was set up by institutions that monitored our normative or governmental activities. Mr Grims, when you finally concluded that this government is not doing this, let's stop being in power to get you back - all these reports are from 2007. What I'm trying to say is that a mistake has been made by your government, and so do we. Therefore, with regard to the self-restraint of the government as such, in view of the practice that has been ingrained, we have assessed that we need external control. And this resolution defines external control, the control of the highest authority elected from the people, this is the National Assembly. The government by this act, which is a legal act, actually puts sticks in a bicycle, which has run very well so far, according to our assessment, according to unacceptable practices. Which organs set us up with a mirror and what they warned us about. The "Sigma report", which we have on the web site, is very critical of March 2007, - experts from OECD Member States, when they defined our regulatory capacity and transparency of government policy, policy preparation, regulation preparation, in fact, recommended that the Government should prescribe a precise procedure, manuals, methodologies for officials when preparing regulations. As this is missing - and Mr Anderlič, who is absolutely right, this resolution will in itself lead to this - this is ultimately written - that the National Assembly and the Government, with amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and the adoption of other acts, will ensure that these objectives, principles and guidelines are implemented consistently. The National Assembly and the Government will monitor together the implementation of this resolution. Two times during the term of office of each current government, after one year of its work and at the end of its term of office, it will report on the implementation of this resolution on the basis of a proposal by the working body of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Government, i.e. at the end of the first year and at the beginning of the last year of the term of office, and the National Assembly will adopt positions on its implementation or necessary amendments to this resolution. So long-rooted bad practices, as assessed by the current government, will not be changed without such behaviour. It is not the former government, despite the rules of procedure, and also the current government has begun its mandate according to old practice. We all know how hard it is to change. By the way, we found at the time of this government's appearance, the mandate of this government, that most of the rules had been done outside ministries in the past mandate. We have adopted a decision to prohibit such practices by means of this practice, all with the aim of shaping policies in the sectoral ministries, which, by the way, are also obliged to enforce them after the adoption in Parliament, not only through administrative units and other expositions, but also to monitor enforcement through inspections and everyone - if you do not prepare a regulation, do not identify with it, execute it, supervise it, and therefore we have such problems in the procedures as to be different practices and so on. The evaluation of regulations, the assessment of the effects of how a regulation works, is a forgotten practice. That's not only why we're going to supplement the Government's Rules of Procedure. We have also prepared to assist state officials with the core of the material, which is now prepared in this way and will be accepted by the Government, and then guidance as soon as this resolution is adopted. We are already carrying out the education of high-level government officials, not only to inform them of these new practices that they will have to respect, but we have also invited experts from England and the Netherlands. These are the countries which have been carrying out the impact assessments over the years and have been trying to show through the workshops high-level public officials what practice they are using specifically in the preparation of regulations in these countries to produce policy documents. It is not possible to rule well if decision makers, that is how the government is, and so you, parliamentarians, do not get a clear professional assessment of the impact of each proposed policy on all segments of social and other life. And these professional bases, i.e. impact assessments, the consequences of each policy or regulation, must be qualitatively prepared to help officials when they prepare them for us, decision makers and, by the way, components of the regulation will also be more easily judged by decision makers, which of the measures we choose to know from the various professional solutions that are certainly more available. And it is imperative that this is a change of law. It will be necessary to consider whether there is even a need to change the law or maybe just practice and so on. Now I just feel like we're going to solve the problem that happens to us by changing the existing law. You are right, Mr Anderlič; the Construction Act is so often changing, but there is no improvement in the situation. Have we done an analysis of the effects of these changes - I don't think so! There is a new government, it is known that there are problems in this area, there is a demand for rapid action and a solution is seen by everyone in a new law, it informs the public that the new law changes the practice in this area and let us hope that it will be better. We find that this doesn't work and it's irrelevant which one of the governments did it. However, the fact is that the rule of law based on this type of conduct is so impractical and also on the implementation policy, as the legislator thought, as some current government thought, that we must stop. It is simply necessary to stop because it is not possible to expect that we can process 700 regulations in good and good quality per year. This has been expected and urgent in the process of joining the European Union, from 2000 to 2004, this has been a practice, and now this practice is continuing, and now it is not necessary. I think it is necessary to stop, to look at all the regulations so far, whether we are also in the process of joining in, when we have actually taken over regulations in the Slovenian legal order with the direct effect of the directive, for example, whether the conditions for our entrepreneurs are more difficult than the Directive itself requires. The enforcement authorities themselves point out that certain Member States of the European Union do not have the same difficult conditions as we have in the approximation process in our legislation in the regulation of directives. We need to review that. Now is the time to clean up the legal environment. This resolution is a request from the current Government for the participation of the civil and professional public in the drafting process, for a request from the civil public and the National Assembly to help us, in the consistent implementation of these principles, which are in this resolution, support and monitor, also criticises us, by amending the Rules of Procedure in a work where we are rightly seeking the same objectives as those set out in this resolution. But the hope that tomorrow things will be smooth, that there will be no more of these problems, which are described in the introduction as problems, is an illusion. However, we estimate that if we do not begin this moment - and the Government is making its work very difficult with these regulations - we will not achieve the objectives which are the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and thus our objectives. With unnecessary regulation, with demanding conditions, Europe is identified and we identify, we are preventing our economy from becoming more competitive and causing unnecessary costs to citizens. The process of eliminating these burdensome costs has been ongoing since 2000 and will continue. With the programme to remove administrative barriers - this is not just our country's programme, but the European Union's programme, because the rules of the European Union that apply directly in all Member States are equally demanding, indeterminate, non-transparent and the European Union has recognised and cleaned this regulation in the same way as we do in the programme to remove administrative barriers by 25%. The assessment is if we implement this programme by 2012 to save our economy costs of 2 to 3.5 gross social product. This is huge money, so we have a hand in this plan, an action plan, but we're doing this to the ministries ourselves. We will try when the results are achieved - the results will be when we ask the National Assembly to adopt the rules by which we will remove these obstacles. Thus, this resolution is indeed an emergency call. We have not found another solution to the self-restraint of every current government in the drafting process. It is not possible - and already in 2007 the Ombudsman began to warn, in 2008 she demanded that the current government adopt the law and commit the current government to the process of preparing policies or regulations to ensure public participation - civil, interested, professional. The direct involvement of people is also very important for current governments, it is not possible to avoid, then the current government sees, if existing policies can cause conflict, it can balance the interests of society and at the same time actually activate citizens to participate in this important process, not with referendums, but at a time when policies are being drawn up. This is significantly more difficult, but at the same time it does not reduce the government's responsibility to decide at some point. That's not a question. It is wrong to think that the responsibility of the government is being reduced here to decide and, of course, to present the proposal with full responsibility to the National Assembly for adoption. It is unacceptable, however, the Ombudsman, and of course all these institutions, that within a reasonable time when the draft regulation has been moved - we have made a recommendation to give a minimum period of 30 to 60 days - does not allow the public to comment. And not only does it make comments, political hygiene requires that the comments that will not be taken into account be answered in a reasoned manner. "American procedure act" is a procedural rule that has defined public participation obligations in the regulatory process since 1945 in America. If the Ministry is in breach of a minimum period of one month, it shall be provided under this Act: people, individual NGOs, judicial protection. And such a provision cannot be adopted in Parliament. My assessment was that we will try this resolution and practice, Mr Grims, I hope that the additions to all these rules, the rules of procedure, the new form of core material, guidance, manual and methodology, education, training of staff and also the information support of this process will start at the beginning of this year with the use of field ministries, a single practice will be established here. And also citizens and interested public will be able to enter the process in a uniform transparent way at all times. Here we will ensure transparency at the highest possible level to enable them to do so. I estimate that there is no need for law, even though the Ombudsman proposes that the supervision of Parliament and civil organisations, whether we respect this procedural commitment on this side when we report to Parliament, or whether we do so, be a sufficient guardian that we do not bring the regulation back tomorrow without the involvement of the interested public. It is not necessary to adopt proposals from the public concerned. This is not a matter of restriction and substantive decision-making; it is a matter of procedural right to enter into the process and the right to an reasoned answer, why an initiative was not acceptable; it is an argument. Otherwise, people do not make proposals if the authorities remain silent and do not respond. The assessment of the consequences of the rules after its effect will also be important for the rules to be adopted in accordance with the urgency procedure. Due to the nature and method of adopting and preparing the rules adopted in the National Assembly by emergency procedure, of course, it is not possible to assess the consequences of the effects of the regulations or of the involvement of the public concerned. That's an exception. The resolution foresees that, in the case of these rules, after two years, it will be necessary to draw up an assessment of the effects of this regulation and to present it to the public and to the National Assembly after two years, as this part will weaken the regulatory process. I think that the Members and Members of the National Assembly, when an integral part of the regulation, will also be able to analyse the assessments, the effects of the rules such or different, broader, narrower, substantially help to decide and also to understand the Government or the Minister of State, why it has decided and chosen a course. We hope that this will make the regulations we propose better. At the same time an important component of this process is also an analysis of the existing situation, and here we expect that many regulations will be assessed as unnecessary because they are no longer necessary and we will make the legal field in Slovenia more transparent. This is also a parallel process that we are carrying out. Mr Grimes, your amendments. The intention of both or this amendment is contained in the existing principles, because they are in the resolution, I will not read them again if you want, but from all these three principles and their intentions is an undisputedly visible goal that you are aiming for with your amendment. We fully agree with him at the substantive level.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr Grimes. You want a debate? Then I will reopen my application for debate. Mr Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you. However, let me begin this debate with a simple explanation. I hope that there is one point where, however, we fully agree with the distinguished Madam Minister, because there are absolutely indisputable facts to agree on here. This is because one point on which the behaviour of the current coalition and the current government differs significantly from that of all governments or coalitions. For behold, not Peterlet, nor Drnovškov, nor Ropov, nor of course Janšev's government. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Or Baiuk's. [[...]] [[Thank you for reminding me that I missed another one.]] None of these governments, ladies and gentlemen, has itself proposed a resolution stating that it opposes amending one regulation with provisions in another regulation and even defines it as creating instability in the legal system. At the same time, by amending the legislation when adopting the budget, the same government intervened in a referendum-confirmed other law, such as the government and the coalition, by amending the RTV Act, which, of course, substantially increased the subscription. No other government! Only the current government and the current coalition, Madam Minister. She did not say that, if I quote, "the correct and uniform use of professional terms, clear, certain and generally reasonable rules" and at the same time, in exactly the same period she proposed the law as that government and this coalition proposed the Higher Education Act, which would eventually decide on the amendments to the amendment to the amendment replacing the basic text of the law. However, from the first to the last, the coalition itself proposed this because it corrected its own mistakes and poorly prepared and non-professionally prepared text. It is said that no other government has done so in an eccentric, obvious contradiction between its words and its actions. That is why I have pointed out this; even worse, Madam Minister, because this government, even at the same meeting where we have discussed this resolution, has proposed certain legislation from the field of justice, where we have been able to see very quickly that it violates the principle of self-restraint and the principle of proportionality, which is also enshrined in this same resolution, which we have dealt with at the same meeting just before that. And more. This government even proves by actions that it does not intend to respect this resolution in the future, because it has sent to Parliament a proposal for a law that has been deleted quickly and at the same time, in the principle of transparency, which I quote, "defenses the adoption of rules in accordance with regular legislative procedures that allow for quality of knowledge and the responses and impacts of the public concerned." Please! That is why this resolution is only valuable as a reference, and this is where our amendments go, which will make it easier and more effective to understand how big the difference between words and actions is. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	I will not, Mr Grims, because there is no intention of any resolution, not of my today's prediction, argumentation, accounting for the conduct of the previous government. We could list a thousand rules and practices that are not in line with the recommendations of good legislative policy. We all know that. But it's not meant to be. The aim is to limit any new state-of-the-art government, whoever will run this government, to a legal act adopted in the country's highest legislative body, in the National Assembly. It is called the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. The purpose of the resolution is to define the state and definition of the policy forward in a particular area, that is in the area of drafting regulations, and this will be a trap for all the current governments, the present, the next and the future, until the next majority in Parliament adopts a law that will remove this resolution from the agenda of this country and thereby give way to important democratic principles. It's a millstone at the door of the current government, you're right. Reporting to the National Assembly that we do not respect the resolution that we have proposed and adopted ourselves - it will not be easy if we violate it significantly if we do not respect these principles. I also said that I have no hope because of the ingrained practice of officials and politicians, that only by amending the regulation can we just improve something so that we can do it overnight and risk poor estimates of our work in the future. So I'm surprised at your -- I have a feeling that you don't really understand what I want with this act, because you said that you would accept it to actually support it if you reflected the actions of this government. From the day this resolution is adopted, the actions of this Government will have to get as close to this resolution as possible, and your supervisory function will be further strengthened from this point forward, within the framework of all the principles we attribute here. Of course, the goal is extremely legitimate and is welcomed by all the public. We have been preparing this resolution in conjunction with colleagues from the Government's Law Service, who have been helping or preparing all these activities, all with the aim of improving our activities, the government, in the process of preparing policies. We are seriously aware that we are setting ourselves a major and challenging task in relation to reports that, once again, are not only reports from external institutions, but are also the voice of the public. I want to say that we have prepared a debate on this resolution. We have invited and sent all NGOs, economic, trade chambers and so on. Everyone welcomes and is aware that this field of their participation in cooperation will now be open. We asked them, too, to keep a close eye on our activities so that we could get rid of these old practices as soon as possible. Also in the framework of our procedure, which will be defined by the Rules of Procedure, we, the Office of the Government of Law, our Ministry, will be vigilant about these principles that will be enshrined in the Rules of Procedure. But, Mr Grimes, you know exactly that there are no sanctions. We cannot sanction the behaviour of the minister of the field, the ministries of the field, because we are all equal. That is why we have placed this supervisory function at a higher level: the public, the civil, the rest and the National Assembly, because we alone have no hope of doing so without having any coercion over ourselves. That's what practice has shown so far. And I would ask for your support, because this is a document that will not be ours, nor yours, from no one. In the long run, however, it will pave the way for all current governments - it makes it difficult for them to travel if you want; but the competitiveness of our economy, citizens' satisfaction, better public administration, better judicial administration, better judgment will not be better unless there are better regulations. He won't! When I talk to officials in administrative units, through all the models of excellence they go, their processes are designed, "dotted", people are friendly, watchful. All the elements of business excellence are present at the work of the employees of administrative units. You know what the complaint book says? The behaviour of a public servant of this and you have been kind, extremely correct, but this country is impossible because such demands it makes impossible to meet. And you will not think that, of course, when staff are in direct contact, they do not warn current authorities to react quickly, respond quickly, and improve the legal environment in certain areas. Here, however, we are all, current, former and preliminary in terms of rapid response, still significantly too slow. Now that we are assessing the impact of regulations, at least hopefully more in-depth, more active in cooperation with enforcement agents, with stakeholders, with supervisors of these regulations, I hope that over the years this practice will improve to a level that we will say: well, our system environment has improved slightly. The regulations are smaller, the rules are clearer, they are more specific, the practice of the decisions of the different administrative courts is significantly more uniform than they were before, but without taking into account all these principles, which are in this resolution, we fear that this will not happen. Thus, this resolution for a better regulatory environment, for the better functioning of all systems in the Republic of Slovenia, would be necessary and it would be very good to support it, to support all Members and Members, because it truly represents the self-restraint of every current government in the regulatory process and provides a guarantee that the regulation will achieve the objectives set out to be more balanced, a better decision and that ultimately the management of society will be a little closer to people, that they will not have the feeling that it is so remote that social systems, which are too uncoordinated today, will act a little more in a coordinated way, because such a lack of consistency will bring about the effectiveness of each system for themselves, and that the policies that we accept here will be welcomed, but will also achieve their objectives: that we will be familiar with evaluation, with the impact of individual policies and are satisfied with it or, if no objective is achieved, will be less satisfied, and will we will change our practice or the final result of the regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Of course, see, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, you are also a member of the College, and I must say that I have listened with great pleasure to the words of the Minister on the commitment, the principle of self-restraint and respect for this resolution, and therefore I ask you to inform the College as soon as possible that the Government will obviously no longer abuse the rules of procedure and that it will allow the law on deleted, in accordance with the principle of transparency, to be treated in accordance with the ordinary procedure, so that it is possible to inform the public and implement the procedure in accordance with this resolution. However, it would be too severe for the government to act on the first test stone against a resolution that is obviously adopted today, as we will all support it in one way or another. I hope you can do this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr Grimes. The procedure shall always be decided by the College and the leaders of the groups of Members shall be informed of all this and shall not be specifically informed. Anybody else want to discuss this? Madam Secretary, can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	Just one explanation, Mr Grimes. I have already said that the individual procedures and in this part, as I recall, the competent Minister of Government has proposed a reduced procedure because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is a matter of harmonising the regulation with the decision of the Constitutional Court and the delay of the current government to resolve this issue in this area is justified and such a procedure is justified by the non-compliance of the existing law with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss the resolution or chapter four and the amendments to this resolution? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE MEDICAL ASSISTANCE LEGISLATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Ivan Ergen, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a medical device law has as its main objective the regulation of the field of medical devices in accordance with the European legal order and the implementation of the new directives of the European Union, with particular emphasis on the transposition of Directive 2007/47 of the European Council. The provisions of the Proposal for a Law on Medical Devices regulate medical devices for use in humans. They designate the body responsible for medical devices, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. The proposal also defines the cooperation between the Member States and the European Commission and provides for the establishment of a European database of medical devices. Medical devices other than medicinal products such as medicines, personal protective equipment and other equipment are also more clearly defined. More specifically, this bill sets out the essential requirements for medical devices which take account of the latest developments in development and technology. In particular, I would like to highlight the conformity assessment procedures for medical devices, the issue of a European Community certificate of conformity and declarations of conformity, the confirmation of the CE marking, mandatory monitoring of the labelling of medical devices - each must be accompanied by an understandable instruction for use in the Slovenian language, exceptions in exceptional circumstances, the possibility of withdrawal and restrictions of placing on the market if medical devices adversely affect the health or safety of patients, users or third parties who are exposed in any way. The bill further sets out the conditions for the appointment and notification and monitoring of the body which determines the conformity of the medical device - we call it the notified body - and regulates the field of clinical research on medical devices. The term "clinical research" replaces the existing term "clinical testing", and in the case of "in vitro" diagnostic medical devices, the law introduces the term "examination evaluation study". In particular, monitoring of the undesirable effects of medical devices and a defined system of identification, collection and evaluation of all complications resulting from the use of these medical devices is exposed. As a centre for the collection and evaluation of these complications reports, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of the Republic of Slovenia is established. The draft law also regulates the production and transport of medical devices based on fat and fines and, in this regard, the obligation to notify the production and transport activities of medical devices, the obligation of manufacturers of medical devices or manufacturers established in the Republic of Slovenia to notify medical devices for entry into the register and to regulate the transport of medical devices in pharmacies, specialised shops and other shops and, of course, to define conditions and means of advertising and to control the entire area of medical devices. The adoption of this law will ensure that the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia have access to medical devices that comply with the highest quality standards in the European market and allow access to products that are otherwise marketed as medical devices and do not meet safety, capacity and quality requirements. The adoption of this law will also increase the safety of nationals of other Member States, as it is still Slovenia, because it has not yet implemented this acquis, a weak point in the European Union, since it is possible to import and distribute medical devices that do not meet the basic requirements that we prescribe for European Union citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Ivan Grill to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 4th regular meeting on 29 October 2009, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health considered the draft Law on Medical Devices second reading submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. The drafter stressed that the Law on Medical Devices should be adopted in order to comply with the many amendments that have been made in European legislation since 2000. The proposed law will therefore bring the field of medical devices into line with and harmonise the new system. The proposed law is of a highly technical nature. The Legislative and Legal Service submitted its comments in writing to the Health Committee on the legal text, which has a total of 73 articles, and had comments on 30 articles of this Act. In the course of the course of business, only the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group tabled amendments to Article 12. No other amendments to the qualified applicants have been submitted. In view of the numerous comments made by the Legislative and Legal Services on individual articles, which were mainly of a nomological nature, the Health Committee itself, through its consideration of the law, took into account all the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services and adopted them as amendments to the Committee. A total of 35 amendments were then adopted. The members of the Committee supported the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 12, 23, 26, 51, 67 and 68 of this Act. However, they did not support the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 9, 24, 33, 52 and 53. However, the debate concluded that the two articles proposed by the SDS were not in line with the European directives and were therefore withdrawn by the SDS Group. At the end of the discussion, the Committee also voted and discussed all the other articles and finally adopted them. He also passed the law and proposes to the National Assembly that it be adopted further in its consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have reviewed the draft Law on Medical Devices, and perhaps the first impression is that it is more of a technical law, which introduces a number of changes to the European legal order that regulate this issue of medical devices. What I am about to say is, in my introduction, Mr State Secretary, that this law updates the definitions of individual concepts, clearly distinguishes medical devices from other products, medicines, personal protective equipment defines the cooperation of Member States with each other and with the European Commission. More specifically, it sets out the essential requirements for medical devices, which also take into account the latest knowledge of development and technology and, in this regard, the evaluation procedures and their consistency. The draft law also establishes a body which establishes the conformity of the medical device, this has already been mentioned - notified bodies. In particular, monitoring of complications with medical devices and the establishment of one centre for the collection and evaluation of reports of complications, as is done by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. We may have missed the fact that this bill does not deal with the issue of accessibility to medical devices in all this brief reference, which in fact brings the proposal to this law. It's a very important question. We hoped that this bill would also address these issues, because we know that many categories of people who need medical devices - deaf, deaf or wheelchair users - are facing serious problems, including financial ones, in accessing these devices, which would otherwise make life easier for them. Although the previous government has promised that these matters will be resolved by the adoption of the Law on Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, it seems that we will not be able to wait for this law for a while. We support this bill in our parliamentary group because, according to the proposaler, it would ensure a high standard, quality and safety of medical devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The law is important as it must ensure the adequacy and safety of the use of appropriate medical devices, ensure their accessibility to all citizens and at a reasonable price. The applicant himself, this is the Government, specifically highlighted the issue of accessibility to medical devices, which is not being resolved by this bill. On the Committee, we have been assured that, if the law is to be implemented, the Ministry of Health will draw up a new law in this regard. The issue of accessibility to health services, medicines and medical devices must be addressed immediately and ensured to all equally. Equal access to health care should, in the opinion of the SLS Group, be the basic principle of health legislation. It is also important that the law correctly harmonises the supervision and professional sale of medical devices and the free economic initiative or competition on the market that contributes to better product prices. The most controversial discussion took place around the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia at Article 7(53), where a new paragraph should be added at the end of the text that the Minister of Health should establish a list of medical devices which can be sold in other shops. The proposer, the Government, disagrees with this supplement because the state does not want to take responsibility for product safety. However, we believe that the State must regulate the sale of devices in such a way that security is ensured, so we are enacting laws. This law requires us to lay down the conditions for the sale of medical devices. In our opinion, the comments of the State Council, which should take account of them, and of the National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia, where, in addition to therapy, they should also add rehabilitation objectives, and a strong note of the problem they have with reading government and parliamentary materials. We will support the law because it is an important topic and to comply with the many amendments that have been made since 2000 in European legislation. However, the deadline for the entry into force of the European Directive is March next year. In doing so, we point out that equal access to necessary medical devices is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you. Mag. Andrea Richter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The Health Aid Act speaks and was established primarily to comply with the European order or directives of the European Union, and it also adheres to the previous or yesterday adopted law on the use of the Slovenian language, of course also to the use of an understandable Slovenian language in the establishment of that language. The development of technology has, of course, also made it possible to improve the safety and protection of patients. The law introduces a number of details and innovations, which the Government has not last introduced into the law with this harmonisation and which we have discussed widely on our committee. This provides for a specific notified body to monitor all activities related to the approval of new devices and also to monitor the harmful or adverse consequences associated with the use of devices. To this end, a system of control is also in place. The law also well defines the conditions and measures to be put in place with regard to quality and safety, as well as the capacity and provision of these devices. In addition, it is an important content, such as the regulated monitoring of side effects that occur with the use of these. And a single base is being established, which will also be uniform for the whole of the European Union and will be maintained within the framework of the European Medicines Agency. For this reason, we support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats, as well as all the amendments adopted by the Committee. In particular, due to the argument of broad coordination with non-governmental organisations, as they confirmed themselves in their presence at the meeting of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	How nice to meet you. Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General with co-workers. Members and Members of Parliament. The amended proposal for a medical device law means aligning Slovenian legislation with the newly adopted directives of the European Union and their implementation into the Slovenian legal order. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is appropriate and we will support it. On the Home Committee, we have proposed several amendments that define certain provisions better. The majority of the amendments have been adopted by the Committee and are included in the text of the law. The law regulates the definition of terms such as a medical device, an active implantable medical device, an in vitro diagnostic device, a medical device designed for individual users and other terms. Medical devices are classified according to the level of risk to the user, depending on the location and method of use, the relationship to the energy source and the specificity of the classification of certain implants and prosthetics. Clinical studies of medical devices shall be governed by the notification procedure of a clinical study, the conditions for its initiation and implementation, the procedure for modifying or discontinuing the clinical study and the obligation to notify its completion. The law also regulates the production and transport of medical devices, prescribes requirements to be met by manufacturers, the procedure for entering the register, the modification of data and the deletion from the register of manufacturers. It also regulates the requirement for authorised representatives of manufacturers and the obligations of those who place medical devices on the market. Free movement of medical devices is arranged, of course those that meet the conditions of this law. Transport with medical devices is permitted in pharmacies and specialised and other shops, except for in vitro diagnostic devices for HIV self-testing, which can only be carried out in pharmacies. The sale of medical devices in specialised shops should be accompanied by expert advice to staff with appropriate professional qualifications. In other shops, only medical devices may be sold, which do not require the inclusion of instructions for use in the sales package under this law and medical devices intended to protect against the transmission of infectious diseases. The law also considers monitoring the undesirable effects of medical devices, evaluating these undesirable effects and exchanging data. This must also be notified to the body designated for medical devices, which should also act if necessary. The law also contains criminal provisions for offenders who do not comply with the provisions of this law or who act unlawfully. The proceedings initiated before the beginning of this Act shall be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Like I said at the beginning. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. The government has introduced a new law on medical devices into the parliamentary procedure. As the representative of the applicant said, this is an extremely demanding law in technical terms, which has also been reflected in the discussion on the parent working body, where we have, with the corresponding additions, prepared such a content that will be comprehensible, useful, particularly clear or unequivocal for users and for manufacturers, distributors, regulators. In doing so, we hope that the dilemmas concerning some of the definitions that Mr Šuštaršič and Mr Vraber have pointed out on the Committee are indeed so clear that there will be no problems with their content or implementation of the law. This is the content with which Slovenia is unfortunately late. The law must be adopted primarily because of the implementation of the European Directive, which should be in force as early as December 2008, and the entry into force of its provisions is March 2010. This area is governed by the European Union as a whole. The law regulates in detail and newly the essential requirements for medical devices based on new knowledge and knowledge, new technologies, safety and protection of patients in this area. The content consists of re-definitions, clearer allocations of medical devices, other products, mutual cooperation between members, more detailed arrangements, clinical studies of medical devices, protection of confidentiality of data by participants in the system, more precise determination of essential requirements for the conformity of medical devices and procedures, assessment of their conformity. As we have been presented, it is also of paramount importance to identify a new notified body to monitor all activities related to the approval of new devices, with regard to the monitoring of a number of harmful or adverse consequences associated with the use of individual devices. Appropriate implementation therefore requires a specific control system which enables or obliges all those using or prescribing these devices to report any harmful or undesirable effects. We are convinced that the content of this law provides the basis and scope for implementing the principles of the European and thus the Slovenian acquis on the protection of the health of patients and users, provides for adequate protection and safety of the environment and allows the free movement of medical devices in the European internal market. Since this is the content that is urgently needed, we will really support the law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 11. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the LDS, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this article and put to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to paragraph 53, which I am putting to the debate. There is also an amendment by the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Tessel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Article 53 is the amendment, paragraph 7, of Article 53, to be amended to read in its entirety: "In other shops, retail transport may only be carried out with medical devices which, in accordance with Article 33(4) of this Law, do not need to be accompanied by instructions for use and can be safely used without professional advice and medical devices intended to protect against the transmission of communicable diseases." This is explained by the addition of paragraph 7 to the definition of the transport of medical devices for retail use in these other shops, which we believe must be clearly and unequivocally defined in order to take into account the principle of legal certainty and safety of patients and consumers, which medical devices may be sold in other shops. We therefore propose that the seventh paragraph be supplemented by work so that they can be used safely without professional advice. That's added. It is therefore clarified that only those medical devices which, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 33 of this Law, may be sold in other stores which do not need to be accompanied by instructions for use in the sales package and can be safely used without professional advice and medical devices intended to protect against the transmission of communicable diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with Article 53? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I turn to Article 61 and the amendment to Article 61, which has been tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss Article 61? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to Article 67 and the amendment to Article 67 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to Article 68 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 68. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss the law anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, due at 21.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a declaration on the active role of Slovenia in the formulation of a new global climate change policy. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic. I give the text to the representative of the applicants of the declaration, Matthew Franzež, for further explanation of the proposal for a declaration. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. Respected and respected. The key ally of the rise of the human race is nature, which has endowed us with the hands to change the world and the ideas to drive development. Today, we know that mankind’s way of life has exceeded the ability of the earth and its natural resources. Nature sends us clear messages that we misused her generosity. The challenges before us have never been so clear and the tasks are so responsible. We need decisive action in Slovenia, Europe and the world to mitigate the consequences of climate change. If we do not do so, we can endanger not only the quality of life but the very existence of the human race, civilization and planet as we know it today. Our generations may face the greatest challenges in human history. It is becoming increasingly clear that there is no more important policy than the policy of climate change. These have no boundaries, and their consequences may be fatal, with radical changes for all of us. The proposal for a declaration puts the National Assembly as the highest body of democratic power in Slovenia's leadership to achieve, for the first time, an effective and ambitious global agreement to combat climate change and urgently adapt to its unstoppable consequences. Secondly, it sets out a call for an effective policy for the transition of Slovenia to a low-level society and a society of sustainable development. These are challenges that must unite Slovenia. Climate change and the urgently needed social and technological transformation must become a new strategic compass for Slovenia. This must become the third development consensus. Without a broad political alliance, this cannot be achieved. Let me say here that I am pleased that the declaration has also experienced a high level of consent on the parent's working body. The declaration was made in close cooperation with Slovenian NGOs, and I thank them very much for their important contribution on behalf of the applicants. Much more than politics are able to see the challenges of today's moment because they are able to see real dangers ahead of us. They represent the good conscience of mankind and force politics to do what is right. In its report last year, the International Energy Agency found that the rate of CO2 growth in the atmosphere is substantially accelerating and has already exceeded the worst, most blackest forecast of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Given the current rate of global growth and energy consumption and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions, we are wooding up the average global temperature by 6şC in relation to the pre-industrial period. Respectable and respected, for 6şC! We know that in history this has happened once before - 254 million years ago. The result was terrifying. We've lost 90% of all known animal and plant species so far. At that time, it took 20,000 years for the land to warm up to 6şC. We can achieve the same growth in just 200 years. This is just one of the frightening illustrations of big changes. Virtually all scenarios speak of a major change in the climate, Slovenia, for example, in the subtropical zone, the appearance of our landscape will change and the climate will be extremely unstable. Below the water will be Tartini Square in Piran, along with a large part of the Slovenian coast. As early as 2035, large alpine glaciers were supposed to disappear. Everywhere in the world, and most of all in the underdeveloped parts of the world, there will be an angry fight for natural resources, starting with food and water. This will lead to new wars, new conflicts, poverty, and hunger. We in beautiful and small Slovenia will not be immune to these influences and these devastating consequences. A few more weeks separate us from the climate summit in Copenhagen. The advanced and responsible global public has high expectations of reaching an ambitious, binding, effective and fair global agreement in Copenhagen that will limit the growth of an average global temperature below 2şC in view of the pre-industrial period. With regard to this expectation, unfortunately, we cannot be optimistic, as the global situation is changing and the large players, who are also the largest contaminants, can see too little ambition and lack of accountability. But there is hope, as was the case in Rio and Kyoto, that the summit itself will bring more ambitious results than we can expect today. It is so much more important today that the National Assembly, as the highest body of democratic authority, sends its communication to the Slovenian and international public to expect agreement with clear, ambitious commitments by 80% global greenhouse gas reductions by 2050, to reduce greenhouse gas concentrations to 350 particles per million C02, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from developed countries by 40% by 2020, with regard to 1990, to the commitment of developed countries to new and additional public resources for mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries with a new and effective financial mechanism, that developing countries are also able to adapt and contribute to reducing global emissions. Objective: To halt gross deforestation by 2020 and thereby reduce 20% of the contribution to global emissions caused by deforestation and degradation of tropical forests. In line with these Copenhagen-oriented expectations for an effective global fight against climate change, the National Assembly also expects this declaration to accelerate Slovenia's transition to a low-carbon society through a package of legislation and measures. We also need an effective, comprehensive and well-coordinated national programme for the rapid transition of Slovenia to sustainable development society, under the already announced law on climate change. In other words, we need a Slovenian "green deal". We all know that we are not and that we probably will not reach the commitments we made in Kyoto. This must not be an excuse for us, but it is critical to assess why we have failed and to establish an effective model for dealing with climate change. The adjustment process requires a lot of money, both in Slovenia and in the world, but delaying measures would mean life on a very expensive loan. There are relevant estimates that global adjustment will cost us up to 1.5% of global GDP. Failure to act will result in a 20% decline in global GDP and let us ask ourselves what is more expensive and what is wise to do today at the turn of the new decade. In doing so, we firmly believe that energy transformation is also an essential opportunity for our economy. In this area, we also have sufficient knowledge and vision in Slovenia to channel a flexible Slovenian economy into an area that will undoubtedly be the largest and fastest growing economic sector in the coming decades, which will also create great opportunities for exporting Slovenian knowledge and climate technologies. The Slovenian economy has taken some important steps ahead of policy in this area and has already begun to adapt. Our people are allies of decisive action. Following a Eurobarometer survey, 80% of Slovenes and Slovenes express great concern about climate change and call for decisive action to reduce emissions and effectively adapt to the inevitable effects of climate change. According to a recent study by Mediana, which was carried out by the pro bono for NGOs associated with the Action now, climate change is a high priority among the problems of the 21st century, which concern the Slovenian public. 76% of our people think we need to act now because we're running out of time. This concern of people should be a political incentive and a responsibility for all of us to act. When we look to the future, we prepare our eyes, we see most of the children playing on the green lawn, under the green trees, running through them a stream of clean drinking water. But the sun gently warms them in the broad blue sky. It's a picture from my childhood. And there is no greater dream than that our children, along with their peers and generations all over the world, would receive this abundance of this beautiful planet. And those dreams make us a commitment. The work and cooperation to achieve this commitment must unite us because there is no greater and more noble objective than this responsibility. This is a promise we must make to the children of our future. If we do not make this promise, we risk that future generations will never forget us because they will be reminded of us and of our mistakes by the misery of the world in which they will live. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you today to do something good together as one of the first actions that we must do on our way to the high goal of leaving this community and this planet as a good heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was considered by the Committee on Environment and Space as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Bredi Pecan, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 5th urgent meeting on 6 November, the Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for a declaration on the active role of Slovenia in the formulation of a new global climate change policy, which was sent to the National Assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Bojan Kontic. In the introductory presentation of the proposal for a declaration, the representative of the applicants, Comrade Matevž Frangež, said what we had just heard so as not to repeat. But I would like to complete his presentation only with my personal contribution. Today's hour of rest when we're wasting money and the time of citizens and energy for the present [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] That hall, it doesn't say [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Mrs Breda Pečan, at least as short as possible, because this is a report from the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	our contribution to climate change reduction. [[...]] It would therefore be very good if this declaration were indeed accepted. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the proposal for a declaration in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of our country and from a legislative and technical point of view. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, several amendments were tabled, which the Committee confirmed as its amendments. The government has supported the declaration. In the context of the general debate, a single support was given to the proposal for a declaration defining the active role of Slovenia in the design of a new global policy and towards climate change. The Declaration, together with Slovenia's already adopted views on the December conference on climate change, supports the Government to go to a conference with ambitious views, but different solutions can also be adopted at the conference. In this context, it has also been said that it would make sense in the light of this declaration to determine what our development plans are in view of the immediate and long-term situation. The National Assembly should undertake that Slovenia, regardless of the results of the Copenhagen climate conference, will pursue the objectives set out in the declaration submitted. The objectives are set at a level that cannot be believed, according to the decision of the United States of America, the world's largest polluter, on Earth, to adopt the objectives that have been set within the framework of the European Union. I must say that the Committee has accepted the amendments as its amendments, the three amendments to the first part of the declaration and to the title proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. In addition, two amendments were tabled to the third chapter of the declaration proposed by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Zares, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners and the LDS. Both amendments were also adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment and the Mag space shall have the floor. Zoran Couss.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! Today, the National Assembly is discussing climate change for the first time in its history. And that's the only fact that's actually historic. The Government has adopted an opinion on the declaration, assessing the declaration as a good document as a real document at the right time. The document contains concerns, calls, commitments and support for Slovenia's EU objectives and efforts to adopt an ambitious, effective and fair climate agreement in Copenhagen. At the same time, it has been sent to the Government to implement the priorities in the field of climate change, and the National Assembly, at the same time, has adopted an appropriate political stance within the EU, Slovenia's political stance on climate change. The global climate agreement is expected to limit temperature within two degrees Celsius. What does two degrees of Celsius mean? This is about the difference between the long average temperature of Portorož and Ljubljana. If the temperature increases by two degrees Celsius, it means that Ljubljana will become a climate of Portorož. Without appropriate climate measures, global temperatures will also increase by 5, 6 and more degrees Celsius. Mr Frangež has already talked about these consequences and, of course, they do not need to be repeated. I'd like to add another piece of information. The CO2 concentration, as it is in the air today, is 35% higher than it has ever been in the last 650,000 years. What does that mean for Slovenia? If the temperature rises, the global average temperature for 3 degrees Celsius will increase in Slovenia by 4. If the average global temperature increases by 4 degrees Celsius, Slovenia will increase by 6. This means that climate change will be more affected by Slovenia than some other places and even in the territory of Slovenia will be different. The most affected are the Alps, the coast, Crassus. Above all, longer dry periods will be longer and they will be more extreme, intense will be weather storms, such as torrential winds, strong rains, large floods, beaches. If I'm cariculating. The Commission will be very often on the ground to assess weather damage. Let me finish. In fact, the Declaration contains all elements arising from government documents and European Union documents on climate change, and the Government fully supports the declaration in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, he shall have a copy of the text. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We must be aware that the declaration is in itself the most general document adopted by the National Assembly on a specific subject. And climate change, global warming, sustainable development, alternative sources of energy and, similarly today, unfortunately, still speaks too much. We have no concrete solutions. We have only high-flying ambitious plans to curb climate change, reduce global emissions, limit deforestation and the like. Scientists, environmentalists do warn with concrete data and figures, but on the other hand, here, where specific regulations on how to deal with our environment are to be adopted, and there is no real efficiency here. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that this is a global problem. However, not only globally, but also globally, in terms of non-resolving. We all know that the problem is that pollution is increasing, that CO2 emissions are unfortunately not reduced, that alternative energy sources, renewable energy sources are being introduced too slowly. However, matters are resolved, regrettably, with declarations, agreements, protocols and so on. Of course, this is not an absolute criticism of this declaration that we understand each other. All right, because we also support this, even such principled positions must absolutely be. What about concrete solutions? Why are they gone and gone? Is everything just politics? Is it all just big money? Or maybe it's some kind of big lobby fight. Unfortunately, all of this is likely to have to be nodded. Of course, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the proposed declaration, already in support of all efforts to improve the environment in which we live. However, we are convinced that Slovenia's commitment to sustainable development will not be greater. Also, the awareness of Slovenian society will, unfortunately, not be any greater. However, this can be an important signal or gesture, both to Slovenes and to Slovenians as well as to the whole of Europe. The declaration also states that the National Assembly expects that, as part of the negotiations for the conclusion of a new global agreement on climate change policy after 2012, Slovenia will work together with others to do everything in its power to adopt an ambitious, fair and effective global agreement at the Copenhagen climate conference, which will limit the growth of the average global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period. We all probably want this to happen together in Copenhagen. I can only say that in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party this is simple and we simply expect, whether this declaration is adopted here today or not. However, as I have already mentioned, we would also like these declarations, resolutions, protocols and everything else, agreements, to be implemented expeditiously. It's not enough to talk, it takes action. All of us, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	Good evening. There is a need for a declaration and there is no doubt that it would not be supported by the Slovenian National Party in the Parliamentary Group. However, it would be good if we did more than make a declaration. A lot has been proposed and the Slovenian National Party has proposed a lot of measures in its mandates since 1992 and not one has been adopted. It is interesting how it has always been said that conservation of the environment, respect for nature, and preservation of natural goods must be maintained, but little has been done in this area. It is therefore pointless to talk now about how important the declaration is, how little it is, but we hope that the government will do more to get the government to act. First of all, it should be known that the 2nd degree Celsius temperature reduction in Slovenia cannot be achieved by any measure if this does not happen at global level. Slovenia has no walled borders and that the climate would be different than it is in the area. It's running like a binder, and that's why it's not possible. Therefore, as much as possible must be done to help us survive this common vessel without allowing too much interference with these natural influences. It is therefore necessary to take into account, first of all, the need to restrict the use of plant protection products, to prohibit, not only restrict, the use of pesticides, in particular certain specific fungicides, repellents and other substances which are very harmful to the environment, but do not bring profits to anyone other than farmers. But it's for a little while. For a long time, they harm the entire nation by the emergence of disease conditions, various cancers, tumors and all sorts of things. The country hasn't done anything here. Renewable energy sources must be used urgently. First of all, solar energy. We have had some cases where gentlemen from previous mandates wanted to bring wind energy to Slovenia in any way. And that's when Mr Kopač even ripped a certain area out of Nature 2000 to build wind centres there. Today the state is still doing this, although it has been proven that this is not worth it, that the benefit is too small, but some gentlemen, unfortunately one is already dead, have received certain money in their pocket at the time and the matter is still going on. I don't know why, but some of the other types are the welfare of the country and, above all, the natural environment, but they are particularly interested in their own benefit. I think it is imperative to run and use as many photovoltaic plants as possible. The fact is that Spain, for example, and some other countries - Portugal, a law where there are more than 400 square metres of space on a particular building, is absolutely necessary to have a photovoltaic power plant. We don't do that and we lose energy. Today, the benefits of these photovoltaic power plants are so great that this investment is paid off in less than 10 years, which we cannot say for conventional hydropower plants. The country should be implementing subsidies here so that those who would do so would receive some financial compensation, which Europe is already doing and at the same time they are doing individual countries. But there's no listening to us. When the Slovenian National Party tabled an amendment to this law in the previous term, you simply deleted it, ladies and gentlemen. It is also necessary to build electric power plants on Mura. Environmentalists can say it's bad - but it's not bad! In all of Pomura, soil levels have fallen so much that not only agriculture but also drinking water supply is at risk. With flowing hydropower, the soil level rises to the point where we get rid of these things, at the same time, we gain energy. It is important to be aware that this does not destroy the biotope, even the biotope grows, is larger, because with the slight rise of Mure levels, the sleeves increase, fill with water and this biotope, which is so important that it remains. Otherwise, the biotope disappears because the terrain is drying and the matter is unrepeatable. There is something urgent to be said next about transport. They are still rolling along Slovenian roads columns and columns and convoys of trucks. The Slovenian national party has already tried to get these trucks on the railway within three mandates, but that is not possible. It is not possible because of the strong transport lobbying that has a stigma in certain political structures, and I am sure that certain gentlemen from these political structures are getting fat money in their pockets. It does not matter that trucks destroy motorways, it does not matter that they pollute the environment, and Slovenia is willing to pay 80 million fines to the European Fund rather than restrict these trucks to transport via Slovenia. Of course, some prefer their own benefit to the benefit of the State, to the benefit of our nation and ultimately to the benefit of mankind. It's a simple thing that trucks have to get on trains, but for some, it's too heavy, too heavy and they just don't want out of that circle that carries the money, they don't want out. It is also necessary to build a chain of power plants on Sava. We were just yesterday discussing how stupid it is not to allow another hydropower plant to be built there, because there was supposed to be a narrow area around Sava protected by Natura 2000. Here, too, I am convinced that there is some money, it is not said that there are no Croatian interests in the rear that deliberately undermine this possibility of construction. It's a lot of nonsense to talk about a biotope on a kilometre and a half near Savi, but we know that the Sava flow is much longer. And if we take the entire flow of the Sava from the Wall Bridge down, what special differences we don't see, it's said, it's a very controversial biotope and there must be other things behind the hill to keep it so strong. Similarly, our party has also taken the initiative to build so-called green bridges several times. In sections of the motorway, simple roofs are built, if I say so, concrete roofs and can be disposed of by waste, garbage, domestically, after a certain cubatura of these wastes, or, say, when these garbage is one metre or two metres thick on top of them, they are covered from a half metre of land and planted on their greenery. And when this spreads out, one layer of garbage is once again produced, and this is how we get the so-called green bridge, which, for the first time, allows animal species to move from one end to the other, which is very important. On the other hand, we get square meters, square meters, are, hectares and more green areas, which again helps us at those points when we pay for CO2 emissions. They wouldn't have thought how many of these surfaces could be so amassed. In Parliament we have some of what it's like to know a thing when they come to teach us, I don't know what it's called, I haven't listened yet because [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I'm already curious, but I prefer to hear things on a different level, not in here, when they're trying to say things so that those on the lowest common denominator can understand. [[...]] That's why I think it would be good for the government to connect to some colleges, say biology, pharmaceuticals, because what kind of flora is sown on surfaces is also essential in certain matters. If you go to New York, you'll see a species of tree in New York, I think it's a ginkgo biloba, for one simple reason. That tree kind of cleans the air. They haven't taken that from us yet. They already know that in college, and that doesn't help because there's no listening in the government line. I think it would also make sense to give a degree and a master's degree and a doctorate to work in this area to find solutions. Let them search for plant species that absorb CO2 and produce oxygen to a greater extent than usual for all green plants. I think we should do a lot more. Just like if we take agriculture. Why are we not carrying out co-natural farming on Slovenian farms? Why do we allow farmers to rub pigs around, pesticides, insecticides, all kinds of devils, poison water, poison the environment to process 50 kilograms of corn more? The corn itself is questionable. And if we take what damage the corn does on the Ljubljana Bar, it's terrible that no one moves. Dear coalition, I expect the law on the Ljubljana Bar to fix this mess that the previous governments have not fixed. Let's do this. Our client will be happy to help you with these matters. And once again, we will support the declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	Your Honor! There is no other way to support the declaration. Today there is not one conference, there is one policy that does not say once a day how climate change is one of the biggest problems and how we all have to solve them. I understand the Declaration as a timeless framework for taking on certain things, so in this part, when it comes to Copenhagen, it is too short. I believe it can be understood, as we understand it at the LDS, that it is timeless. And since we also need to be realistic, Copenhagen will be significantly lower if there is even a new agreement, such as these ambitions in the declaration. Even what we have already accepted as the National Assembly as the position of the European Union towards the Copenhagen climate conference. It's definitely a problem. It is clear, however, that the President of the United States and also Chinese leaders said a week ago that they were not going to commit to anything. Interestingly, the Russians said yesterday that they would be even 25% or what I think is the same as that other promise. But when we understand what we really want, we need to turn back to Kyoto. Kyoto was the first mutually agreed, legally binding document for all actors. Where are we? It is estimated that oil consumption will increase by 40% over the next 20 years. The number of cars will increase by 50%. So, of course, we're getting away from this, and serious problems are waiting for us. Even more so if I listen to the Minister for the Environment, who after the first year of his office says, "We have a conflict of interest. In the National Assembly they adopt difficult objectives," he said to the Committee on the Environment, "but we are lagging behind and we are not achieving these goals." As it is said, Kyoto was the first mutually agreed and legally binding agreement. And here's a series of questions that are asked. We have heard every day, and it is clear to all of us that at every step of the way, we must think and act together on this fundamental issue for the world to come. But it must have become so domestic and in itself understandable that when it comes to taking this into account, we do not do so. We have a very practical question. Not long ago, when we fought in here in this hall, whether we invest in the lower Sava and the nuclear power plant or invest in the sixth block of Scotland. With a finger, we can figure out that it's going here, as the minister would say, on a conflict of interest. But the investment is approved and burned and will go on. Problems are just beginning. It is not sufficient to reply to the fact that this investment is below the currently set standards, as far as pollution is concerned. This is not an appropriate response, because this "under this certain level" on a long-term basis means if we want to go against the goals that are noble and we support them in LDS in order to achieve a reduction. It's a very practical case. That's another thing. We have recently received a brochure on the table, sponsored by the Germans along with some institutes to combat climate change. They say with wood. And they even mention the study, and then I'll talk about it in the debate. And if we look at where we are with the wood, what we do with it. Do we install it in buildings or store it and store positive potentials in this wood and so on? Practical action requires specific things from us here and now. If a resolution is a specific policy in some area for a period and so on, then we understand the declaration as a comprehensive timeless document, which must be embedded in all the actions of the all-inclusive, in particular those responsible, whether it is in the government, parliament or other institutions to pursue these objectives. We hope that this document will reach across Copenhagen and that this will not be something we put on the shelf. It is necessary to be aware, even from the President of the Government, it cannot be expected that he will defend these objectives to this extent, that this seal will be as deep as we would like, because we have already furnished it with views for Copenhagen, which are similar to those of the EU. And that's where the EU comes in with one voice, so to speak. We have given this consent as a state, the National Assembly. However, I will be very pleased to hear that, regardless of the agreement reached or not reached, I am even afraid that it will be because of the specific situation in which this Copenhagen is taking place. If I had been a year ago, I'm sure this document would have been significantly different. Following recommendations from the IPC international organisation and similar experts working on the basis, I would be sure to obtain a more binding and more ambitious document. Now we have to be realistic. However, we are convinced that there is a need to look ahead and that there are many things that depend on us. Above all, we will not say that after December 15, when the end of Copenhagen, we did some noble act. We don't want to know what, but they'll follow. We'll support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	We're counting days to a historic event. In December this year, world leaders will meet in Copenhagen to reach a global climate agreement. The consequences of climate change are more obvious from day to day, but we still have time to prevent disaster. Slovenia must also respond to the climate crisis. Those aren't our words. This is an introduction to the Action Now website, where signatures are being collected to support the petition, let policy, that is, us, act quickly and decisively in the fight against climate change. We have very little time. While we're sitting here, tons of excess carbon dioxide accumulate every day. But the temperature of our planet is slowing down, but it's rising relentlessly. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our century, but in fact we will decide on the fate of these changes and, as a result, decide on our fate over the next few years. Then it'll be too late. It will be too late because all simulated models of climate change predict that if the temperature on our planet rises by 2 degrees Celsius, we will trigger unstoppable processes that will accelerate the warming of the planet, to such an extent that the existence of our civilization, as we know it today, will be questioned. This is not just the intimidation of some environmental radicals, it is the findings of the entire scientific community. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our century. In the coming years, starting today and yesterday, we will decide whether to solve the problem or not to let the problem solve us. It's not about whether we're able to save the planet, it's going to stick anyway, it's about whether we're able to save ourselves. And look at the Bible! Climate change will cause exactly what it predicted would be the four horsemen of the Apocalypse: plague or pandemics. One of these is not so bad luck, but they predict others. It's already circling our planet, we see. War. All forecasts of climate change refer to the threat of water wars, wars caused by the mass migration of nations, floods, droughts and other consequences of global temperature rises. Easy. climate change will lead to a reduction in the potential for agriculture resulting in food production. And four. Death. Death is not the least of all our civilizations, as we know it today, and it erases a great deal of knowledge, technological progress and elements of a comfortable modern society. Unfortunately, we do not get good news from the international political stage in this area. The agreement between the world's largest CO2 contaminants, the United States and China, which was concluded in Singapore last week, that there will be no binding decisions at the Copenhagen World Summit, has been severely stifled by the world summit, which will begin in 17 days and the hopes of all the people who fall into this event. That is why it is so important that Europe, and as an active and advanced member of Slovenia, we are taking a firmer stand in this area than we have been before. If we want to be winners in this challenge, we have to face the fact that there are a number of difficult decisions ahead of us that we would like to avoid, but any delay, as in the delay of the return of the expensive loan, will mean that the price we will have to pay sooner or later will be even higher. Otherwise, they'll take our house with the credit, and on this issue, they'll take everything from us. We will have to make many courageous decisions in this National Assembly. And these decisions are already ahead of us. Even one of them is at this meeting of the National Assembly. The new Motor Vehicle Tax Act is a small patch in the mosaic of the necessary measures. We expect the Social Democrats to support this law and to follow this courageous action with others. Social Democrats are aware that we are a small nation in a great Europe and Europe is a small peninsula of the Asian continent. And this one is only one of five on this planet. But that is why we are aware that if we want to save ourselves and Slovenia, we have only one option. That we are in this area, not on the tail, not somewhere on average, but at the top of the world, about advanced low-carbon measures. That is why we wholeheartedly support the declaration. It is only the first initial document on a long, steep and difficult path. But every time, even that 1,000 miles long, it starts with one step. Tomorrow at the tax on motor vehicles will be followed by another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Declaration is another attempt to divert attention from everyday problems with the so-called popular theme. At the declaration level, all Slovenians are very environmentally aware, but unfortunately, in the application of environmental solutions, this crowd shrinks below 20%. This share is already used by energy-saving appliances: from energy-saving lamps to biomass and solar energy. The environment will not allow Slovenia to take on the leading role in the fight against climate change for a while. The poor implementation of Kyoto commitments, and the European Union's warnings on PM10 and PM2.5 dust particles, and the €20 million per year Penals, are a poor road map for ambitious emission reduction commitments by 40% by 2020 and 80% by 2050. The Government's decision to close the centre for renewable resources and environmental protection in Pivka in order to save is contrary to the principles and commitments contained in the declaration. Slovenia spends around 13 megawatt hours of energy annually, according to experts. Biomass, including organic waste, could cover 10% of the needs. Due to inadequate solutions in relation to organic waste, the European Union's warning is in the air. Despite better gas supply in the future, the largest share of energy needs coverage will fall to block 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant and block 2 of the nuclear power plant. Block 6 is indeed going to emit lower specific amounts of CO2, i.e. quantities per unit of energy produced per kilohour, but the total emissions will be at least equal to or greater, as production will be up to 25% higher. They're running late on the water power plants. Alternative sources, however, are not even in the experimental stage of production due to bureaucratic barriers. We may even be threatened by an energy eclipse, as imports are also questionable because investments in transmission networks have been too modest. We have not taken any decisive steps in the development of new resources. Hydrogen, fuel cells, fusion physical reactors will not be available to us more than a few decades, as we are with research in the beginning. We will therefore depend on less-friendly energy sources in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. It is worth mentioning that in a world or Europe that is leading in this area, countries that are already introducing concrete solutions are raising awareness and advising. Britain, with its Climate Change Act or Climate Change Bill, then by regulating transport in London, has these first concrete measures, the first results. They develop new generation nuclear generators and are leading and are very active in informing and advising. We are reminded of the activities of the former Ambassador, which the current Ambassador continues. Among these active countries, Denmark, which has done a great deal in the field of wind power plants, waste water treatment and some other areas, therefore Copenhagen is not selected by accident. It is in the leading country in the field of combating climate change. In Sweden, there is a quarter in Stockholm, which is self-sufficient. Most of its own resources are supplied from its own waste and waste. Nevertheless, Germany is the leader in new technologies. Ambitious plans for the production of hydrogen in Africa, large wind power plants for "off shore", i.e. for the open sea, pilot projects for the capture and feeding of carbon dioxide and so on. So-called green technologies employ already half a million people and now contribute 8% to gross social product and plan to increase by 14% by 2020. From a country receiving reminders, it has been difficult to side with those countries that are already implementing concrete measures in the fight against climate change. I believe that they have embarked on the path of success with concrete plans, not only with beautiful but hard-to-real words from various declarations. For the like but at the same time a very inanimate declaration after all of these does not make sense to vote, which is why we will abstain from voting in the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Dr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me start by saying that in the Group of Members we are really pleased that this proposal for a declaration has come to be considered today at the assembly and we will also support it. It is true that it is only a declaration, a kind of principled and general act that does not specify and specify the details of climate policy, but we believe that such a document has an important symbolic and political character. Firstly, it expresses the definition of the National Assembly and its awareness of the importance of climate change and its impact on life. Secondly, it encourages the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to set more ambitious objectives in the field of climate policy, which will enable us to solve problems that we will only face in the future more easily and more effectively. As it is known, the preparation and consideration of this declaration was guided by concerns about the fate of the Copenhagen Summit, where a meeting of the members of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change will be held and at which we should agree to continue dealing with climate change once the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol have expired, this being in 2012. Three weeks before the Copenhagen summit, there is still great uncertainty about the binding agreement and even what the architecture of the new post-Kyoto binding agreement should be, say, be. Of course, some optimism has brought news that the Russian Federation is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2020. U.S. promises and remittances were pretty optimistic, they're already smaller. We still do not know what the role will be and what they will agree to in China, in developing countries such as India, Latin America, Brazil. The fate of this and its architecture is still largely uncertain. Therefore, it is also legitimate to ask whether Slovenia, with its forces, is any important factor here. Whether Slovenia should limit its emissions, it imposes costs on itself if all other, most wasteful issuers do not do or say that they do not. Here the answer is very clear, i.e. limiting greenhouse gas emissions is not only related to the question of what it will be and how much the temperature will rise, and all that has already been said but is mainly related to whether countries and economies want to be involved, one could say. In the race for transition to a low-carbon society and for the development of low-carbon technologies. Some examples of some countries have shown that, in addition to these climate change problems, the greenhouse gas reduction commitments are linked to their plans to take the lead in this competition for new low-carbon or non-carbon technologies. For Slovenia, this is a clear decision - whether it is present or not. If we don't do anything, we've lost one developmental period, a period of low-carbon technology. If we're there, if we do something, if we ask for it, and we take measures that we can do something about it, we're here and we're still in the game. This is a very important question for us. Important for climate change - something has already been said about what temperature increases mean. I'm not gonna say that right now because it was said. In particular, I would like to say that climate change is not just a rise in temperatures, but rather a rise in climate extremes, that it is the most common expression and reflection of climate change, and that we are already dealing with it. Unfortunately, on the one hand, on the other hand, we must also say that there is no need for any stronger rain, every slightly warmer day in winter, to prescribe climate change so that it can happen without such changes, but the frequency of such rains, storms, hurricanes is significantly higher with these changes. And that's what you need to know. Climate change is not only about reducing emissions, it is also about adaptation. Adaptation always raises the question of what is worth more or what are the benefits and costs. We will have to face serious questions. For example, when building infrastructure - is our infrastructure, roads, highways, bridges, roofs and roofs; are they robust enough, or do we need to build more robust infrastructure? Or this means that such a more robust construction would mean 20, 25% or more of the cost of such construction, or that it pays us to build such an infrastructure and risk it every five years, and we say, every five years, a 100-year flood will destroy our bridge. This is a question that we need to know how to answer. And we cannot answer this question in Slovenia at this time. That is why this resolution must also encourage the Government to focus its professional, professional and other bodies on finding such answers because we will need them. Climate change is therefore not a classic environmental problem. Far from it! In fact, most of the gases in this context are not classical pollutants. CO2 is an integral part of our atmosphere, as well as methane, and enables our climate as we know it, and the environment as we know it. If we didn't have it, we wouldn't be here. But if things are too much, there are other things that happen. So it is a problem of how we will move into a low-carbon society, and it is a problem that we will have to completely or completely change our relationship and management and management of natural resources, especially water, especially forests, as mentioned today in relation to wood, and of course also with all other natural resources. We will need an extremely, much different and more thorough policy here, especially from this point of view. If the amount of precipitation is constantly around the Slovenian territory, but if it is substantially increasing that more precipitation falls in less time and then it is drought, then it is clear that we need to do something radical in water management that we need to start retaining water. Today, however, we are still accelerating the flow of water through all measures. Therefore, this declaration is not only a way for the National Assembly to wash its conscience, I would say, before the public before the Copenhagen Summit, but there must be some kind of agreement that we will take these matters seriously and seriously continue to work. In particular, I would like to point out that this declaration has some concrete recommendations, first for the Government, also for us to request and that we want to lay professional foundations with an analysis of the costs and benefits of climate action in Slovenia, to prepare all relevant strategic documents, to correct the development strategies of Slovenia from the perspective of transition to a low-carbon society, to prepare and correct the national energy programme from this point of view and to finally train the Government Service for Climate Change, an effective, smaller service that should have this creative and cooperative and coordinating role, which must be carried out between sectors, since this matter does not fall within the sector itself, at least of course, could even say environmental. More problems are expressed in agriculture, transport and so on. That is why I think that this declaration is an exceptional opportunity to say that in this National Assembly, as you saw yesterday at the debate, at Natura, which was not entirely my will and at the will of the entire parliamentary group, I would like to say that there is some debate about this which goes beyond the party division of the position-opposition, as it was once for a change yesterday. I think this is an opportunity, I am sorry, an opportunity to make a different coalition in this assembly, which will cross its borders differently than in other political debates. As I have said, in the Group of Members, we will, indeed, support this proposal for a declaration clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we certainly support the proposal for a declaration before us. The fact is that this declaration, as we are likely to all agree today, is indeed important because the issue of climate and climate change concerns all living beings, including, of course, all living and inanimate nature. According to our assessment, when dealing with climate change issues, we cannot avoid natural resources management problems, as it is an inadequate management of natural resources that is one of the main reasons for climate change. In the parliamentary group, we note with concern that the Republic of Slovenia has deteriorated in the last 20 years, as regards the country's awareness of environmental pollution, as we have agreed on the European Union's tail on the environmental threat criteria. Therefore, our country needs to take a serious approach to making an important contribution to improving the state of the environment. According to our assessment, non-governmental environmental organisations have an extremely important role to play in this regard, which clearly points to the critical state and inadequate behaviour in the field of environmental protection. One of the biggest environmental pollutants is definitely traffic, more precisely freight traffic. In the Republic of Slovenia, we face this problem mainly because of transit traffic through our country, as thousands of heavy trucks are rolling on our roads every day. This problem is particularly acute in the area of north-eastern Slovenia. For example, in the Upper Radgona area, which was not even saved by the opening of a new part of the Moorish motorway. The truckers avoid paying tolls by driving through the city. But what the people of this city are still burdening, both ecologically and in terms of reducing road safety. One possible solution, which has been discussed for years and years, is the shift of transit traffic to open trains. Unfortunately, we are only talking about this solution and there is no realisation because of the excuses, since the axle load borne by Slovenian railways is too weak and similar, and it would be too expensive if we went to the reconstruction of railway infrastructure for these purposes. In addition to transit transport, urban transport is very problematic. Months ago, it also became clear that the capital, and we started talking about this issue also for other major cities, and in this case all citizens and residents are thinking about getting hit by this matter in their pocket, and no policy is going to do so in any way. Let me stay by the road for a moment, more precisely by passenger cars. Given that we know that 14% of all CO2 is emitted directly into the atmosphere by road traffic, it would be one of the possible, even smaller steps that would help reduce CO2 emissions into the air, so that the state could subsidise the processing of passenger cars with petrol and diesel engines or encourage drivers to purchase more environmentally friendly electric cars. Let me also touch on the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is in energy efficiency on the tail of the European Union. Research shows that only 14% of Slovenes and Slovenians are environmentally aware of buying savings household appliances or at least saving lamps. The use of solar energy is also very low, as is the use of alternative energy sources. The latter represents a very large financial investment, so we rarely make or make decisions. Another important area that is still limping with us is the use of natural resources, where we still have a lot of untapped potential in the Republic of Slovenia, such as water resources, solar energy and the like. Moreover, Slovenia will have to purchase in the market, due to the lack of commitments made by the Kyoto Agreement to increase emissions, for which the biggest culprit is transit transport and too slow technological reconstruction, emission vouchers that will cost the country 80 million euros for four years. To make climate and climate change a better place in our country, it is also evidence of the establishment of the Government's Climate Change Service, so that the work of the Ministry of Environment and Space in this area should not be neglected. Given that several declarations have been adopted in our country over the past 20 years on the topic of environmental protection, we hope that the DeSUS Group will not remain solely for the sake of godly desires, so we need to add small steps in order to achieve the great objectives set. However, we welcome the content of the declaration in the parliamentary group, according to our assessment it is also essential that the National Assembly and the Government approach the drafting of the law on climate change and inform us of the strategy to combat climate change, which will define the necessary policies for adapting and reducing emissions at all levels of its action to transform Slovenia's entire society into a low-carbon society. We also agree that the National Assembly should invite all political leaders, led by the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to treat climate change policy as their priority policy and to seek mutual cooperation with a view to ensuring that Slovenia plays a leading role in this issue. We expect that the Government will take seriously the calls contained in the declaration and in due time prepare the transposition of all relevant European Union legislation on climate change into the national legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular climate energy legislation and packages, thereby ensuring, in our legislation and programme documents, the fulfilment of common options, costs, benefits and necessary measures for Slovenia to reduce emissions by at least 80% or by 2050 and present them to the National Assembly and to the public and, by 2011 at the latest, prepare all relevant costs and programming documents covering the fulfilment of commitments to the objective and under the new global agreement from Copenhagen. We also expect the Government to prepare a national programme for mitigation and adaptation to climate change by 2011 at the latest, followed by all sectors and all those who are expected to work on this programme. However, we expect the Government to develop a comprehensive public communication strategy for climate change and sustainable development in 2010 and 2011 and effective education and education measures in this area. In particular, it should invite the professional and general public, particularly the economy, the professional and scientific institutions and non-governmental organisations, to engage proactively in all tasks in this area. Of course, we also expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report annually to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the objectives and commitments and on the preparation and implementation of legislative and programme documents on climate change and sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first word is Mrs. Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-known Mr Secretary of State Kus and other colleagues and colleagues. I will be happy to support the present declaration because I think it is very kind and, for the first time, a very ambitious declaration and a good journey for Copenhagen. There are too many reasons that clearly and unequivocally signal that climate change is the ones that have been shaping our destiny for decades or, more clearly and clearly, that we are the ones who are so irresponsiblely shaping our destiny, because we are people with our actions who are changing this Earth in many ways, adapting, remodeling and so indirectly and directly polluting. So every minute and every second we are directly affecting climate change, that we are equal to those who influence our own, our income and the future of the masses, to the fate of our children, our grandchildren, mankind at all. As a result of voting to have as many as possible and to spend as much as possible, or many of us have forgotten or, more to say, have lost the feeling that we are connected to nature and that nature, which is so natural, responds to every intervention, can be so tiny and small or large if it is not well thought out. It responds spontaneously and we feel it is cruel, but it is natural and normal. We must be aware that today we must not view Earth and the climate as a pool of resources whose value is as useful as their value. The scientific revolution and comprehensive technological progress have enabled us to organize ourselves, ourselves and our own knowledge and operation, into increasingly smaller segments and so virtually imagine that the links between these separate segments are no longer important and necessary, but it is a false appearance that has brought us carelessness and recklessness. Only together can we do more and better because nature is whole and it works that way. We must never forget this, and we must be aware that people are so fatefully connected to nature and to each other that we will feel it more and more from day to day, as it clearly gives us signals. The debate on the present declaration gives us an opportunity to draw attention to some of the frightening data that we are expected to see in the above facts and to remind us of the necessary changes. Last year, we witnessed more than 240,000 people die as a result of the weather and thus the grip. The damage caused is the second greatest damage in human history. Prognosis is such that the coming years will bring more victims and more damage. These will be greater year after year if people do not comply with the Kyoto Protocol and all other resolutions, declarations, regulations and consistently implement laws, and not least what we will adopt in Copenhagen. The United States is the country that has the most powerful technology and also the highest moral obligation to use it wisely and rationally, it is a matter of policy to take care of rational governance as a result. The United States contribution to global warming represents about 30%. Canada, for example, 2.3; Europe 27.7: Russia 13.7; Central and South America 3.8; Japan 3.7; Middle East 2.6; Africa 2.5; Australia 1.1; South East Asia, India and China 12.2 - America 30%. This is said to be the United States of America producing more greenhouse gases than South America, Africa, the Middle East, Australia and Japan combined. If I tell you that only Chicago is throwing more greenhouse gases into circulation than all of Bangladesh, more than 100 million people, it's just so visual that we see where we are and how the balance and scale look. And what does that mean? That the responsibility of the greater ones is greater, but that each one of us often does not behave in a responsible manner enough to consume too much energy. We become hyperconsumers, we buy things we don't need, among them I have to admit, alone. Do we even know how irrational heating is, over-cooling, how we behave in traffic? And all this is what contributes to pollution. Do we know that for the production of one mobile phone we produce 75 kilograms of waste material and do not know how many greenhouse gases? We are convinced of the power of the technology of machines and computers, but we ignore the power of nature and the resulting weather. Remember, we build in flood zones, we sow on dry soils, we invest in such products that are increasingly wasteful, and then we are so amazed and amazed when we are caught again and again and again and find us unprepared. Therefore, we must ask ourselves whether this has not become our way of life and governance. Let us change this mentality, seize this crisis as an opportunity and change our thinking, be a little more enthusiastic, pay more attention to awareness, education and learn how to love nature. Just talking isn't enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. In one of the presentations of the views of the groups of Members, we have heard today that the resolution is only a distraction from everyday problems. This is now some new mantra that we have received from one of the opposition parties in fact in dealing with any content that is not directly related to what, to the economy, to the economy. I think it is very difficult to agree with this and I welcome the fact that we are adopting a resolution in the National Assembly, because these are our daily problems, how our daily problems are and how they are also related to the economic crisis; for those who have caused this crisis in the area of banking, economics, economies will certainly not be able to solve it. This is the law that the government and which has always been in force. And this is where the problem lies, precisely in finding new ways to deal with the economic crisis, not only with old patterns and old ways, but also with many new challenges and changes in a number of areas. And here, I hope that the resolution will also represent progress in Slovenia in changing a certain mentality, which has become a very scrupulous one and in which we have not yet taken a step forward. I am pleased that we are doing this in Parliament, because this is the only thing we can do in Parliament. I hope that this will also mean progress on the part of the Government and I see it with more facts, not least our President of the Government will go to Copenhagen and participate in this conference, he will make his contribution. He accepted NGOs days ago and talked to them seriously about the problem. And also as far as the party really is concerned, we are happy to take a small step that the Government has been able to take in setting up a service for climate change. I'm saying that this is a small step, we wanted more, and we also stood within the government for more. We would like to have a job run by a minister or a secretary without a ticket, and it would have more meaning than the job itself within the Ministry of the Environment, because this is such a solution that we say something better than nothing - at least as far as I'm concerned. In doing so, I must say that this is not just about climate change, it is about sustainable development, and if we are looking at the resources covered by the Government, then there is no source that does not touch this issue from transport to education, from science and technology to agriculture, and we could list, in all areas, a huge task awaits us. I hope that this crisis, which is not just a crisis of financial, economic and some economic growth, will be constantly heard in this House through the eyes of economic growth, the fall of gross social product - far from that! I have already talked about this before, and this means nothing to me, because economic growth is not always a reflection of the right sustainable development policy and is not the only indicator that society or a country is going in the right direction. I hope that this sensitivity will increase, because the tasks that await us are great. And when we had a lot of money, we didn't do anything. Let's just see where we are on the transport segment: investing in the railway - nothing, public transport - nothing. Our cities are choking and are just before they have already received certain warnings - Ljubljana, Nova Gorica, Celje and so on - in this regard. And we didn't invest anything in it. This is the criticism and self-criticism of all of us. I hope that this will sober us up and that what we can do here in our own country, that we will do, although of course, our contribution will be one small contribution to what many of you have talked about in this global sense. I am equally critical of what is happening in agriculture. It'll be food, and it's strategically good. Food and land. And I deeply agree with my colleague, Jelinčič, who warned of this. But we are very insensitive when we talk about security reservations in the field of genetically modified organisms, conservation of indigenous seeds, forests in Slovenia, pesticides, herbicides and similar things, water and everything. And I hope that in Slovenia we will become aware and stop developing livestock and maize, I will say, fraudulent Slovenian agriculture. Lobby, interesting - I hope we'll go where it's true. The fall is enormous, Slovenia is no longer self-sustaining and we keep falling down. We only produce 30% of our food ourselves, and we're already 70% and more! And you know what Britain has set itself for its purpose - to try to achieve 100% self-sustainment with food. This is a strategy that countries are thinking about. What big corporations do, what Hyundai does - buys land around the world. We do not know whether we would adopt a law to protect our agricultural land, or whether we would start by restricting pesticides and so on. I hope that such a resolution will, however, move something here with us in the Government, with individual ministers, and this is not just a resolution that distracts attention from everyday problems, as it is now supposed to be the new mantra that we hear from the biggest opposition party. And if you'll excuse me, I have something to say. I find it difficult to hear, in fact, that we are constantly hearing criticism about the construction of the block of 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant. In the same parliamentary group, where the mayor of Šostanja sits, we constantly hear criticism. I would also like to hear the position of the representative of the local community once what he thinks. Is this really such a horror for Slovenia? I don't think so. I think it's a matter of thought. You need to be aware that this will reduce emissions, that the closed blocks causing large emissions will be closed, and that, of course, the issue also has some social and economic leverages. I am disturbed and would like to hear once what you think, whether this is the position of the entire parliamentary group, because these criticisms, these attacks - we have also heard it today about how we are actually two-faced, because on the one hand we are talking about the resolution and on the other hand we support the construction of block 6. I support him. I think it's the right solution, and I have an argument for it. I'd like to hear yours, too. However, the matter needs to be deepened from another point of view rather than from the point of view that someone else’s interest in energy resources and money may be directed elsewhere and that it is solely to interrupt the scene of who’s going to accumulate in this area. Of course, I will gladly support this resolution and I am pleased that we have opened this debate today. I am sure that we will have some interesting discussions until the end, and we have some time left to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will not discuss it. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you very much. In the previous presentation of the opinions, it was said that we have quite a few difficult and unpleasant decisions ahead of us. I mentioned the first one, and that's a new definition for motor vehicle taxes. I hope they follow the others in a short time. Here, for example, we have a very pressing problem, a very pressing problem with the return packaging, because we have a very poorly developed recycling system in Slovenia. At least until now. At least so far, we're recycling very little and very bad. I hope that we will also know in a relatively short time to limit today's decommissioned use of plastic and other, but mainly plastic shopping bags that symbolize one of those moments of the ease of modern society, where because of the fact that man simply cannot take bags, permanent bags with which we will shop, of course we collect and collect such packaging in the cash registers, and then this packaging "fly" in our environment, ends in nature and in addition to small values in terms of mass, has a greater negative impact on nature and on animals and so on. We can do something in this area - and I am glad that the President of the National Assembly is here with us - also in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I've been here a little over a year, and I must say, I'm surprised at some of the pernicious practices of this National Assembly. That's why I'm going to introduce one. We drink hundreds of bottles a day, half-litre bottles of water. What for? Why should the National Assembly supply such bottles of water, where we blow up pounds and kilograms of Co2 with no connection? The President of the National Assembly, the President-in-Office, is proposing that I give you an initiative, and I know that other colleagues who will give you similar initiatives will follow me as soon as possible and, if possible, with 1 January and 3 January 2010, the National Assembly will cease to use such bottles. We can drink water differently. A good example is the Ministry of Environment and Space, where they have tap water jars and are all beautiful and healthy, at least as beautiful as we are. So seriously, I suggest you try to see what the possibilities for doing this are, it is not difficult, we simply stop the supply and the matter will be resolved. But I know the other initiatives will be presented by my colleagues behind me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dr Gantar would like to respond to the initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the initiative, this is not the first one, my fellow Member, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, has already sent such an initiative in writing and at some meetings we are already testing the use of old practices, it is called a water jar. At this point, I share certain things around bottles, probably not all of them, but perhaps this is already a more technical and logistical debate - not all, but a lot. That is why I say that we will review, examine and introduce you to the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not agree with those estimates that this resolution is just a way of trying to divert attention from real problems to intentional ones. This, unfortunately, is what we have heard today, as if we would not all be aware of what climate change really means, what it means to continue the CO2 emissions if we do not take action with or without the Copenhagen Conference and limit this way of further development. The fact is that in the last year we could even look promisingly at CO2 emissions dropping. From some sources, I have heard that actually in the last year CO2 emissions are slightly lower, at least the trends in these releases are declining compared to previous years. Why? Some analysts link this more favourable trend to the economic crisis. The economic crisis, i.e. the fall in productivity, the fall in production, the crisis in markets, which, of course, encourages us to think about whether such a development or whether the direction we have taken as a high-tech and industrialised society is correct. The fact is that the economic crisis advises us on new models of development that will need to be implemented if we do not want the melting of glaciers to continue due to climate change, so that there is no disaster of Gulf Stream rerouting, which would in particular be catastrophic for the Mediterranean countries. This means that at the same time, in parallel with the consideration of the topics raised by this declaration, it is also necessary to think about the direction of development if I can borrow the title of an old book, if I am not mistaken Dr Hubert Pojarnik, who led in the 1970s to think about our industrialised future. But the fact is that politicians are obliged to adopt a new value system also in relation to the environment where we live. We who live in Slovenia may even be able to appreciate better the environmental conditions of the country, which, despite its smallness, represents a unique one in Europe. Yesterday, during the debate on Natura 2000, it was repeatedly said that Slovenia was an exemplary country because it was concerned about wealth and diversity, about biodiversity, which was essentially defined by it. And that is why it will not be too much if the political will expressed by such a resolution is increasingly loud in those forums where the great one together with us will decide the future of our development and also our living environment. It is therefore necessary to support this resolution in confidence and to be aware that China and the United States of America, which are now trying to hinder, of course, from their own interests, any maximisation of the requirements arising from the awareness of the international public - including Slovenia, by this resolution, will contribute to strengthening this common awareness that climate change must be prevented or at least limited. I am also taking part in an assessment by my colleague Gantar when he says that, despite being a rich country, a land rich in water and water resources, another month of drought remains a disaster for us. In Spain, which is a dry country, much drier than Slovenia, after one month of drought there is no disaster. Why? They have arranged well long ago with coverage, with interventions that actually optimize the use of water resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman won't discuss it. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. I won't say much because I think there's been a lot of talk about this declaration. Above all, the reasons why we have come to discuss the declaration today, and I hope that we will accept it later as well. However, I would like to point out that it is very unusual that, in the event of a truly historic event that we are experiencing at this time in the National Assembly, we do not have an environment and space in the Chamber of the Minister for Environment and Space, which is certainly the most important person of the moment in the Government, due to preparations for the Copenhagen conference, and also to all the tasks that await the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Office for Climate Change for the next three years. I would also like to have members of his party who are members of the DeSUS Group of Members present in the Chamber with him. That's one thing. Second thing. I would say this: by the way, I have heard that how to be abstinent in accepting this declaration is unnecessary, empty and overly ambitious, but not having any real consequences. This can only be said by people who do not know that the declaration is indeed a political document that has no concrete weight, so we cannot even talk about how we will direct our pharmacists and biologists to work on the subject of ginkgo biloba, which consumes the most power from the atmosphere and clean atmosphere, nor can we find in this declaration someone who wants to reduce the use of plastic packaging, nor can we expect to be able to influence how China will behave as we have heard at our committee meeting. That is why I think that because we are all matured, sooner or later, I hope, that the decisions of the National Assembly concerning the coming climate change and those we are already experiencing - it is true that even before 10 November, the temperature in Ljubljana was close to 14 degrees Celsius, but I think that these are changes that indicate that the actual average temperature in Slovenia and in the world is inexorably rising and that it shows that we will still be able to live in normal conditions, but our children and grandson are certainly no longer. Therefore, it is our duty to think about drinking water from jars and perhaps using electricity and fuel more rationally than we are now using. This declaration leads us to this, all of us, not only Members of the National Assembly, but even Slovenia and through Slovenia at the end of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. He's quitting. Mr. Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am extremely pleased that today we have a declaration on the agenda with content that points to climate change, which has a significant negative impact on our daily lives, which will only increase over the years. The Declaration is the most ambitious document ever addressed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, and this has already been said today, that it is not concrete in terms of concrete measures and objectives and that the declaration itself will not reduce greenhouse gases, but that the policy as such gives a clear signal. Moreover, politics has the opportunity, for the first time, to face positive changes in today's society. This is particularly important at a time when the world is preparing for a major Copenhagen conference that will adopt, hopefully, a slightly higher, more ambitious common focus of countries on reducing emissions and drawing guidelines for further more ecological development. The Slovenian Democratic Party's words that this is a distraction from the real problems, unfortunately, I cannot understand. If this isn't one of the big problems of today's society, then I really don't know what it is. Moreover, I can understand the sustainability of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this declaration as a misunderstanding of the scope of this problem, which is a policy issue, because if politics does not understand, they decide on some key decisions, and you have had the opportunity to decide for four years, then there can be no progress. And if we look at globally, precisely because of the difficulties of finding some consensus, how to achieve the desired goal between developed countries and developing countries, this declaration is more than important as a valuable message. Developing countries have done much damage to the environment, so it is also their duty or our duty to restore to the environment what we have been taking for years. But developing countries, in my opinion, have no right to argue that now is their time and that they are not interested in pollution at all. So they have the right to development. It's not because environmentalists would want it that way, but because we can't just let it happen. According to the world meteorology organisation's known data, 2008 was ranked 10th in the world average temperature. The average surface temperature according to the data collected so far exceeds the average period from 1961 to 1990 by 0.31 degrees Celsius. Climate extremes, including devastating floods, severe and long-lasting droughts, snow storms, heat waves, hot air vents, have been marking almost every year. The ozone hole over Antarctica was larger in 2008 than it was in 2007. Over the Atlantic, 16 known tropical storms have been recorded, which is more than a long average. Eight tropical neurons developed into hurricanes, five of which reached or exceeded even a third category. The most destructive tropical cyclone in 2008 was the Nargian, ravaged Myanmar in early May and claimed nearly 78,000 casualties. The average monthly temperature was more than 7 degrees Celsius in Scandinavia in January and February than usual.In part of Turkey, the coldest January nights of the last 50 years have been recorded. Extreme temperature differences are therefore occurring everywhere. In the south of South America, at the early arrival of the Antarctic Air Force, there was a very cold episode in May. This was best felt in central Argentina, where the minimum temperature dropped below the record minus 6 degrees Celsius. In 2008, 123 tornadoes were recorded. Thus, 2008 falls between 10 years with the most numerous tornadoes since 1953. In southern Asia, including India, Pakistan, Vietnam, there was an increase in storms in the mighty monsoon rains and the floods demanded more than 2,600 lives, and 10 million Indians moved. In 2008, the most deadly tropical cyclone, Nargis, developed in the northern Indian Ocean and reached Myanmar in early May. He demanded 78,000 lives and destroyed thousands of homes. The ozone hole was 27 million square miles [27 million sq km] on 12 September, a larger area than in 2007, when it was 25 million square miles [25 million sq km]. I know it seems to you that I may be overcounting it, but that was my key purpose. Because I wanted to point out in essence, as the President of the Gantar National Assembly has already said, perhaps not all, but a great deal, but above all, the magnitude of these events is due to global warming. And I counted just one eighth of the events that happened in 2008. So if we look at the data together, we see that they are devastating and the responsibility of all those who make decisions is to try to make some changes in today's society. And only this information should concern us, not only that, but it should require an immediate reaction and reaction. And what is important in the mindset itself not only of politics but also of civil society? We must not think that these are events that are far from us and that the negative consequences will come somewhere in the future, so that we do not have to burden ourselves with this. Unfortunately, this is the wrong view, because the process has already begun long ago and therefore it is high time for action. This data, or this table, illustrates what is happening to temperature in today’s world. If you look only at the temperatures from 1860 to 1980, you can see that there was always a cold front or a cold front in the majority. Since 1980 we have no longer seen the cold front. This is global warming of the atmosphere, and this has a negative impact on today's society. This graph shows what modern society has been doing with our planet in the last 20 years. And if this does not require one of the key changes, then I really don't know what else is needed to convince all those decision makers and even those who might be held back today to join the change train. There are solutions. Many of them have already been told today, and many have been known by scientists. Our support for these solutions is essential, and many cases of concrete and small cases have been said as regards the law on taxation of motor vehicles and the law on shopping bags, "sparing" or the different use of water in the National Assembly. We all have to imagine, Members and Members, how much paper a day we push away, given that we use computers, not just those in the office, but also personal computers, we have a lot of paper, unnecessary paper, whose data we can look at differently. So let's start with ourselves and I believe we can trigger a wave of positive changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that I am first-signed under this declaration, it is right to express my satisfaction that my young colleagues or younger colleagues had the initiative for this declaration, together with civil society, and that this declaration enjoys support in the coalition, but this support will be, I expect, even a little wider. Earlier it was said that the Minister should be with us at this time when we are discussing such important matters. Well, I think the Secretary of State is firmly replacing him and that the essence of this debate is, in the end, that the National Assembly supports this declaration by voting. However, sometimes if someone is not in space, it can also contribute to a cleaner atmosphere, oxygen consumption is lower, due to their absence, locally and globally, because this person is somewhere else. Compared with local and global thinking, there is little to joke about, although it is not too much to joke about with these matters. Many estimate that we are setting ourselves up in certain cases, and this is such, too high goals. I am thinking this way: the objectives must, however, be high-level, because this is the only way we will focus much more on achieving these goals and even if they are not fully met, we will be able to be satisfied with our efforts in the end. I heard this morning that this coalition is a coalition of those who dream. I would add to that that dreams are nothing wrong. And at this point, when we set these goals, someone can also mark these goals with dreams, but I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, to help us realize these dreams, because they will be good for us and for the families that come after us. I come from an environment that has paid a high price for the development of Slovenian energy and development in a wider way exceeds energy. A payoff with an environment that's been destroyed. We could watch forests die in our neighborhood every day, lakes that were dead, earth and air were polluted. It happened 20 years ago, and perhaps a few more years ago, in the valley, there was something to be done. The biggest protest ever took place. People have demanded changes in this area and I can say that we have been successful in implementing the changes. We have lakes where fish swim, we have air that is clean or at least much cleaner than it was in those days. The task of completely cleaning it is still ahead of us. Successes in this area have been achieved and there are still people living there who have lived there before. Do you think that these same people or their descendants would have landed so easily on at least one energy facility that would have meant additional pollution of the environment if they didn't realize that we were replacing the long-lasting objects that poison our environment, especially the air, and that in this way we would actually improve the situation in the valley? So it's no wonder if you find me first-signed under this declaration as well as a major advocate for building block 6. We have set ourselves high goals and we warn or join in warnings that the world needs to be changed globally if we are to survive on this planet in the future. And while at the same time alerting the others, we have set specific objectives in this declaration that we must achieve. And so it is, since it is necessary to take care of the backyard first, and then you can be willing to edit the remaining courtyards. Let me also be corrected in this implementation in conclusion. I took a quick look, and I did not notice that Mr President, who is also the mayor of Šostanja, would be invited to the debate, might come forward later, but it is right to say that we have also heard his debate in the National Assembly. And that his position regarding Block 6, although coming from the opposite political camp, was very clear and expressed support for the construction of Block 6. Unfortunately, it is also in the political groups that you do not always have your views on the individual solutions proposed, and it is probably so in this case. But it is right to maintain correctness and to recognize what is true. Of course, I will be happy to vote for this declaration, because it is important what environment, what nature we will pass on to our explorers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	Mr. Miran Jerich. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u217	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. Today we are talking about a proposal for another declaration, another paper that we accept a lot in the National Assembly. But often our declarant desires and goals remain only a dead letter on paper. If this were to happen in this case, especially if the objectives enshrined in this declaration are not accepted by the whole world, the consequences for humanity will be fatal. Let me tell you why I'm so sure of this. I've been in the world for over a half century. By this time, I was alone and my generation had already felt what climate change meant. When I was a child, we had long, cold winters with plenty of snow in Slovenia. The springs were pleasant and we had not yet worn short sleeves, and in the summers they rarely exceeded the temperature of 28 degrees Fahrenheit [28 ° C.]. As it is today, we all know. The miles of winter, the hot springs and the impossible hot summers that bring droughts that bring water shortages that pollute our environment. Tomorrow, we can only guess with anxiety in our hearts. Our renowned climatologist Dr. Lučka Caifez Bogataj has been warning for many years, climate change can increase the spread of disease carriers. More frequent will be the blooming of the sea and rising sea levels, again the drought will make it difficult to supply drinking water, higher temperatures will speed up food infections and even more so could be listed. Do we really want to live in such a world at an old age? Do we afford such a world to our craftsmen? Let me look a little wider at the world's largest contaminants. These are currently the United States and China. And we're listening to Mr. Al Gore, environmentalist and businessman, former US Vice President, who says, "The human race is in danger." His friend, former President Bill Clinton, me, too. The recent president of the United States, George Bush, was deaf to these warnings. By electing the current President of the United States, Barack Obama, we all thought it might be different. But will it be true? Four days ago, President Obama met with Chinese President Nuva Jintao at the Apek Summit in Singapore. The United States and China are among the world's largest contaminants, together with other Apec participants. I am among those who may have been naive, apparently naive to expect more concrete results from these talks, but unfortunately I have received a message that there will probably not be an agreement in Copenhagen with politically binding figures on reducing emissions of harmful gases. Moreover, among the world’s leaders were discussing the shared use of water that had just been discovered on the Moon. So it's obviously more important and cheaper to find water on the Moon than to take care of clean water on earth. Unfortunately, the pure environment is still of secondary importance to the rich. However, to the less developed, investments in this area are expected only from a developed and prosperous world. Although it may seem that a small country such as Slovenia has nothing to look for in these decisions, I am of a different opinion. Our vote for the transition to a low-carbon society, as our Prime Minister Borut Pahor sees, must be loud and not only at home, but also abroad. The declaration we are talking about today is part of this voice. Therefore, in the end, I am extremely disappointed that the biggest opposition party considers that this declaration is not worthy of its support. The consequences of his decision should be attributed to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u218	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. From Kyoto to Copenhagen, we can see that humanity has begun to become aware of the problems of climate change, and I am certainly in favour of this and support the declaration that we will sign, sign and perform in Copenhagen. More than a declarative approach to this problem of our small country, which is probably less polluting compared to the big ones, I think it is a good idea, a good point to discuss what our country can do here in our environment to prevent these negative impacts. How to introduce low carbon, how to introduce low carbon technologies, how to use all natural renewables? It seems to me that this debate is more important and more necessary than just a declaratory approach and a declaration of accession. We expect that this interdepartmental coordination will help the state of Slovenia to grant subsidies, give discounts and encourage all these things that I have talked about so that it can also move in concrete terms with us. At least in this way we can be successful [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u221	The questions raised in this debate are, of course, multifaceted, comprehensive and certainly economic interest and this desire of humanity for faster development and intervention in various ways and places, already in exaggeration and greed. However, we need to go back and find that, in fact, the largest company that has taken care of life in the world is nature or natural systems. And here's the point that I've been talking about before. A simple look at where are those resources that could easily contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. With us, and even though we are talking mainly about biomass, it is the final matter with wood, and the wood industry is failing and it would be good to draw a message that they are still, and I have already said this before, scientifically proven or through these research that they were doing mainly in the West, they found that wood is the one offering a simple way of reducing CO2, which is the main cause of climate change, because forests are sucking up carbon, wood products store carbon, wood acts as a statute for the form of intensive materials and, of course, if we look at how our wood processing industry is, it is failing for unknown reasons, say, Savinja Valley, here I see Mr. Podkriznik, the most flourishing industry with the top finished products, building wood into the building up the furniture for unknown reasons, for example, the practical ends of wood today. Therefore, these efforts and impacts could also be used very quickly for economic effect. And estimates are that if we spent 4% more wood per year, this wood consumption would take up an additional 150 million tonnes of CO2 for this purpose. Which means, if we translate this into market value, eventually we are always talking about money, even in Copenhagen, we are talking about whether it will come to an agreement first, and, of course, if this agreement will, whether we will be able to raise this money, whether we will be able to finance aid to the less developed on the one hand, to develop faster and in a way that will be environmentally acceptable, and, on the other hand, that we will be able to prepare programmes of low-carbon strategies everywhere, which, of course, should be initiated primarily by those we have developed and, of course, at the beginning, as we say, were very optimistic numbers. At this point, I don't believe that Copenhagen will be able to talk about those numbers that were set at the beginning. Of course it's not going to be like that. I hope for the best. Therefore, for our use, at home, as we might call it, I am joining all those concerned discussions that go to melting ice on the north pole and all the other things, dying white or northern bears and so on. But if we are talking about wood and this contribution segment to reducing or halting these rapid climate change, then we have an ideal opportunity. I say, the more I look at these things, the more I don't understand. I started with Savinja Valley, if I go to Primorsko, if I go to Dolenjska, if I don't know where, virtually everything we already had, and we have these resources, at the end of the day, cellulose was a good industry, which is what could have contributed through storage and so on. But I hope that we will be so on a declaration level and I fear that, as it is said, every day, but really every day, wherever we talk, there is always a discussion on any subject - the danger is no longer, even so far goes, they are no longer wars between countries and beyond, but there are climate change, they are natural traps. We have certainly had extensive experience in the past, and we have faced economic damage, mainly due to extraordinary weather events, severe storms, floods, droughts and so on. And that is why I am also giving this concrete initiative that, once together - in the government and beyond - we see why the hell with this wood in Slovenia cannot do what would have a multi-disciplinary effect, the widest possible. I'm even, I admit, I haven't been so thoroughly familiar with these things, but now that I'm reading this, what wood is all about and what effects it can ultimately have. For example, Inles Ribnica was one thing I wouldn't forget. Beautiful, beautiful factory, big and, of course, a lot of backwoods. Yeah, but it's tiny. Back again? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Well, that's fine, too. [[...]] As many as there are, it's fine. Thus, in every case, as has been said, there is also some concrete initiative. It seems to me that some discussion on this and perhaps some measures may be useful, that we will not only talk on the one hand about healing, on the other hand about the care of land, which we have less and less in terms of agriculture, and that we are trying to balance this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u222	The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. 48 seconds. Thank you. Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. It would not be wrong to say that we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party against or that our views on the fight against climate change are different from that of other colleagues. I would like to draw attention to one point, on 30 October, at least one week before the adoption of the declaration by the Committee on Environment and Space, Slovenia adopted its views on the position of the European Union on the conference on climate change prior to the Copenhagen meeting from 7 to 11 December 2009. He has accepted something which is already binding or which will come binding from Brussels. On page three, we then have emission reduction targets and then countries are listed. What else is in here than being binding, and we have accepted it at the EU and in the Declaration. On page four. Definition of the EU's common objective in the new agreement. One more end of the declaration. This is said to be the binding documents we have already adopted and then, "the excess does not have a headache", but one declaration up or down, if you already have a binding document that is one week older. So much for bureaucracy and how to accept declarations. Then I heard today that the Climate Change Service had been set up. Certainly commendable, but I would certainly like to get one tangible reason why the centre in Pivka is closing down. Maybe they're not doing anything or it's only 770,000 euros to save. So if we're active, let's be active. So much for that. Then something was said about the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj. It was clearly and loudly defined that this will be one of the main energy players in the future, because Slovenia does not have another. I can't stand misleading statements. Loud and clear to Energetics. NET writes that the specific CO2 emissions per unit produced will be lower. I agree. New devices are more efficient, so there's probably going to be a war hour on a kilo of CO2. But because it's going to be bigger, it's going to be at least the same emissions or maybe even a little bit bigger. It's either cruel facts we can't get past. Then there's something else about the ozone hole. The ozone hole is mainly caused by freons and not so much carbon dioxide or interactions that these freons release in a high atmosphere above 10,000 meters and so on with ultraviolet light. Freons have been banned for 20 years or more and replaced by other chemicals, yet the ozone hole is still not closed. Now there is something else about how much we are interested in combating climate change. I would like to draw attention to the achievements of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, colleagues and colleagues who have been in the previous mandate, as well as those who are new. I'm not making that up. That's what other countries have given us. One of the achievements was also to put the objectives of combating climate change back on the agenda. We also had a lot of German support in this regard, as all three of us presided together. I think there was also one consultation on the basis of effective energy in this room. So we have once successfully added our pebble to this story of the fight against climate change. I would like to point out that, with larger or smaller countries, GLOBE has operated in Slovenia in the previous and current terms of office. The meetings were held by people with one or more doctorates, including the co-owner of the Nobel Prize, Mrs Bogotayeva, who warned, among other things, not that we will now have the climate of Dubrovnik, but for what day will we also have the climate of Stockholm, which has been confirmed this year. At high temperatures around 30, the night temperature dropped to 8 degrees, I think once in June and now again in October. Climate change is certainly perceived and everyone wants to fight it. To return to GLOBE Slovenija. There has always been an extremely weak visit to thematic sessions. It is I, Mr Gantar, and perhaps even Comrade Petan, who remain uninterested. And I call on my colleagues and colleagues, in the light of this declaration, to come to the first thematic meeting, which will, I think, once in December or January, together with the Environment Council. It will probably be the dark use of the earth, but we can also say something about climate change. Only declared and liked to fight climate change, but where it really needs to go, nothing. The Declaration is still not an operational plan. In the part of GLOBE Slovenia, we have pledged to request reports, concrete action measures on a particular topic, at the next stage of each ministry. I predict or estimate that this is more than a declaration for one degree because it already requires that something concrete be given out of hand. The Copenhagen conference is on its way. They have already warned, say, about Energetics.net, that the agreement will not be reached until 2010. Therefore, only some general guidelines can be adopted and perhaps this declaration, and perhaps it will undergo a further change due to the sending from the European Union. And it is precisely because more binding documents have already been adopted that I think the declaration is just as much of a benefit or benefit, but it does not, so whether it is accepted or not, because it has already been adopted with almost the same content or will be adapted on the basis of this document, which has already been adopted, to some extent depending on the requirements or decisions of the European Union. In Copenhagen, there will be no major players in the field of greenhouse gas emissions, or we will come without any promises, or they will bypass commitments such as Canada, which promises a 20% reduction, but based on 2006 and all of them are pre-industrial, that is, around 1990. Canada will commit itself not to change anything, as greenhouse gas emissions have not increased significantly from 2006 to today. It's gonna sound good. Nothing's gonna happen. What would you say to that conclusion? Of course, this subject needs to be addressed, but it needs to be spread into a wide range of people. One of the debaters today said that 14% of people are actually using energy-saving devices. It is declarant of all 2 million and 50,000 Slovenians for environmental protection. So one of the tasks is awareness. And maybe Eles' action that every household got one energy saving light bulb would have shown her in some other way to imitate her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u224	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe for starters, it will also help my predecessor, in the right part so-called soft lo and so-called "hard law". "soft law" includes declarations, resolutions and the like. "Hard Law" is laws, international treaties and so on. And yes, I agree, I miss the so-called Hard Law too. So, concrete laws and concrete commitments from our government. I completely agree with you. But I'd say three things because there's really little time left. I miss strategic energy policy. I come from Zasavje, from the environment where we lived and we will live from energy in the future, so the project of the 6th block of Termoelectric Šostanj sees slightly different. Of course we don't oppose him, we support him. However, we believe that the Government should also listen to other important energy projects. In Slovenia we do not have only Šostanja and only the sixth block of the thermal power plant Šostjanj, which we will have in the future. It is a very interesting project, for example, to build a gas steam power plant with the possibility of upgrading it into the so-called IGCC technology, so-called "Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle" said domestically, it is about liquefying coal. It's a technology that the Japanese know and develop very well. She's been very popular in the world lately. And many countries are also trying to build such power plants. And for the end, there's only one more thing. My colleague Anderlič mentioned briefly why he then spoke about climate change. The greatest enemies today are not the ones who are predictable that we can see, but are invisible. So, climate change, too. The debate on NATO's new strategic concept also looks forward to discussing the role that NATO, as a defence organisation, can play in the fight against climate change. That seems an important question to me. If NATO exposes and exposes climate change as a security threat, which means that these security threats are linked both to mass migration, poverty, hunger and so on, it seems important to me that we are also aware of these issues when we talk about climate change. Just one more thing about block six. I want someone to answer that question, which is a more rhetorical question than not. In 2015, after the start of the operation of Block 6, TES is expected to fill the quotas both for Thermoelectric Trbovlje and Tetol and today's quotas available to the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Is that true? I don't know. According to my information, that's true, and those who know it will answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u226	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, surely, the Declaration on Slovenia's Active Role in Developing a New World Policy for Climate Change is the title, a useful document. The document from which the commitment follows the consideration of every law adopted by the State and a document that makes a commitment not only to the Government, not only to the National Assembly, but to all of us, as citizens and citizens of Slovenia, to help us, within the country as an integral part of the whole world, to help with sustainable development in order to help prevent the adverse effects of climate change. I will not now talk about all the information that has already been mentioned several times today, so I would like to look at just a few problems, or a few reflections. Mr Anderlič spoke earlier about the problems in wood production in Slovenia, which we know to be an important element in the implementation of conclusions or in the direction of action under this active role, within the framework of this declaration. Of course, I very much agree with this debate, because in Slovenia we somehow do not have a mechanism to prevent the export of refrigeration to foreign countries, but in fact with this export, with the emergence of energy waste materials such as plastics, aluminium and so on, we have literally destroyed the woodworking industry. And when I said before, in any way, Austria certainly has this in place, it is possible, with some measures, with smart measures, we have discussed this several times in the previous mandate, and we are not going to end it, to prevent the actual export of the log, but in fact by some measures to achieve that wood production will also be the one that will be viable and will literally deter people from being like consumers of plastics, aluminium, as I said before, should be the building furniture, in case, or furniture, which is, of course, to change in ourselves, as far as consumption is concerned. I've said before that every marriage needs to be considered individually. We have in the parliamentary procedure the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. We have warned, and note this also in the context of the public debate, that concessions and other other provisions under this law are aimed at this direction, so that we will have more exports of cold or useless consumption of cold. Nevertheless, some layers or institutions will continue to be rich, and some individuals in particular will continue to be rich. And here it is necessary, and I ask you to do so, I think that at the next meeting of the National Assembly this law will be under consideration, that we will also consider the active role of Slovenia in the formulation of a new global policy on climate change. And I'd like to remind you of one more particular thing. It is certainly in the fight for a clean environment, or better said in the fight for the introduction of renewable energy sources, that this fight is opposed by a strong and rich lobby. I will give an example, and I am sure to recall the EU's ambitious biofuel policies. As a result, a lot of money has been invested in biofuel projects, not only in us, but also in the most developed Western Member States, in the European Union. Not long ago, however, we all condemned biofuels as the cause of high food prices. Does anyone else believe in biogovernance today? It is hard to believe, but a great evil, a great injustice, has been done to biofuels. To a large extent, technological developments have also been halted in this area, and if we ask who is behind this conviction of biofuels, surely those who have consumed biofuels are not so small a profit. But not to mention other matters that have been highlighted many times today. I will, of course, support this declaration, because there have been some concrete examples of how to use different substances and procedures more appropriately. I'll tell you another example from the National Assembly, let's go around the house once the National Assembly is no longer in session, and we'll see how many lights are burning in this temple. From me, like Savinjani, sometimes they make a fool out of me because I always turn off the lights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Today's debate was very good and particularly very encouraging, which I, as a representative of the Government, can only be truly happy. Today, the Government has adopted another starting point for participation in the Council of Ministers for the Environment, which will be 23. 11. Ministers are meeting on the theme of one single point, these are climate change, which will talk about negotiating tactics for the Copenhagen climate conference. That's because the bargaining horse has been a little off the hook in the last few weeks. The information you have also discussed that in the United States they have not adopted the relevant legislation for climate change and energy, that this legislation is still under discussion, of course, does not give President Obama a lot of elements in his bag to go to Copenhagen. The government will be by the end of this month, and by 3 at the latest. 11. Prepared the last document, these are the negotiating points for the participation of the Slovenian delegation in Copenhagen. Both documents, both today's and the last document, will, of course, be dealt with by the relevant committees in the National Assembly. Therefore, despite some disturbing news about the adoption of the Copenhagen negotiating breath, at least the news is that there is an increasing number of announcements about the high participation of the presidents of the countries and governments at the Copenhagen meeting. This is good news, as at least at political level an appropriate commitment must be made if the figures themselves and the financial commitment are not as strong as was expected at first. Today's debate also gives a very good and positive impetus to the departure of our President of the Government and the Slovenian delegation to Copenhagen. Today's debate has also, I am sure, ensured and the commitment to the future content of climate change will also be a regular guest on the agenda of the National Assembly, which, of course, I am very pleased. By implementing the priority tasks set out in the declaration and related to the declaration which the Government understands as priorities and understands as a domestic task. And secondly, a regular guest with a full report to the Government of the National Assembly on the implementation of tasks at least once a year, as you also wrote in the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u230	Would you like to speak to the proposer? Yes, please, Mr. Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u231	Respected and respected. Let me first mention that I was glad that the Nobel Prize Committee decided this year to award this award to the new US President Barack Obama. At that time it was said that not because he had already done so many things, but because expectations for him and for the American role in the Council were so great. When we talk about climate change and say that this is an environmental, economic, energy and other issue, we need to consider this issue, and especially the consequences of climate change as a security issue. And personally, I would like President Obama to reconsider in the days leading up to Copenhagen the positions arising from the summit between the United States and China, and to come to Copenhagen with better, more responsible positions. I am pleased with today's debates, I think it was very rich and in the part of the debate concerning Slovenian forests, I must say that I agree with both of them who spoke about it. In the middle of the 19th century, we started in Slovenia with an intense cutting of oak and to replace it quickly in order to have as soon as possible new stocks of wood, this oak was replaced mainly with spruce. Today, Slovenian spruce lies and grows in lower areas, and this spruce is one of the first to be affected by climate change. And I agree, the Slovenian forestry industry also takes precedence over the favourable management of forests in the past. What we need to do today to adapt Slovenian forests in time to the consequences of climate change is a good opportunity to make the Slovenian wood industry as strong as it once was. Of course, this section of spruce, which is threatened with extinction in lower positions, is quickly replaced by those types of trees that can grow in these lower areas in the future. I am very pleased with the wide-ranging support for the declaration, a little sad because the biggest opposition SDS has decided to stay out of this circle of broad political consensus, which is trying to give this important message to Slovenia to the public and also to the international space. The unanimous adoption of this declaration would have almost as strong an effect as the declaration itself. I hope the declaration will have its effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u232	No amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have been tabled. The proposal for a declaration will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 8:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u233	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law in the context of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. I inform you that the amendments of the SLS Group to Article 1 and the SLS Group to Article 2 have not been tabled in accordance with the purpose of the third paragraph of Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and therefore the amendments are irrelevant and have not been decided by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. Breakup. Procedurally. Procedurally, Mrs. Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u234	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, I really propose a half-hour recess before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u235	I find that the explanations have been completed and I am giving half an hour's rest. We'll continue at 8:46.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u236	Dear colleagues and fellow Members and Members of Parliament, we continue with the 10th paragraph, which we are voting on. Is the leader of the Group of Ambassadors really Kvetka Zalokar? Please, she does.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. After consulting the Group of Members, I really want to say that the Group of Members will support the proposal to amend the Law on Members to establish the incompatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions, with one of the members of our Group having reservations in this regard. Nevertheless, we believe that this is a content subject to a coalition treaty, in which we have clearly stated that it is a content supported by the Government in its position, which is also publicly supported by the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, and that it is also the content of the law that we have tabled to the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups. We therefore believe that there is a clear and unequivocal position to be taken in this regard, and this is also the position of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you. If I understand correctly, this will apply to the law as a whole. We now vote, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. The explanations have been completed. We're voting. The vote is under way. 85 Members and Members are present. 30 votes against 54. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members present. Please be at peace in the Chamber to determine the outcome of the vote. [[....]] There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item on the agenda - consideration of the motion for a resolution on normative activities. We are moving on to the decision-making of the amendments tabled. May I have peace in the hall, please? We are voting, which is why we really need concentration. Firstly, we are deciding on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 4. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 30 to 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 4. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on normative activities in full. I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 82 votes against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Medical Devices in the framework of the regular procedure. We are coming to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 22. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There's 83 votes against no one. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 23. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 82 votes against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS to Article 53. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against 33. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 61. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 67. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 68. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to a government representative as a bill-maker. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138, I propose, on behalf of the Government, that the law be dealt with in the third reading as far as this meeting is concerned. It is that we are quite late, because it should have been adopted already in the past year, it is said in 2008, it should be implemented in early 2010, so we propose that you follow our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 82 votes against 1. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the law on Wednesday 25. 11. 2009, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Active Role of Slovenia in the Development of a New Global Climate Change Policy. As the amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. We vote, the vote is on. There are 83 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is suitable for further consideration. We vote, the vote is on. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law is final. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian is suitable for further consideration. We vote, the vote is on. There are 83 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of Nuclear Terrorism. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We vote, the vote is on. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is to consider the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, it is I, for the consideration of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the programme of work of employees between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of New Zealand. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. This is for consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the Convention on the Amendment (amended) to the 1952 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood (Moden Convention No. 183. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. This is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents (Mode Convention No. 174. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — THAT IS TO AVAILATION OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT ON ELECTRONIC BUSINESS IN THE MARKET, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE GOOD RESERVES, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION TEXT OF THE TONASION Tax AND OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE LAW ON OTHERS. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on Electronic Business on the Market is confirmed." We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on Trade Reserves." We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Tonnage Tax Act." We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Cooperatives Act." We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 4. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider two proposals by the Council of Justice for the appointment of the Supreme Court in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia with proposals for conclusions: a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President and the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Committee of Inquiry of the National Assembly; a note of the resignation of two members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council; a communication by the District Court in Ljubljana - The Criminal Section concerning the indictment filed by the District Attorneys in Ljubljana against the MP of the National Assembly and a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of two Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. We are moving on to the consideration of the two proposals of the Judicial Council for the appointment of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia with proposals for decisions. The Council of State submitted two proposals to the National Assembly on the appointment of judges at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision appointing Dr. Mateja Končina Petrnel to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I am voting on the motion for a decision on the appointment of Marjana Lubinič as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. I understand that the decision has been taken. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] We are going to examine the proposal for a decision amending the decisions on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of clienteleism and the corruption of the Minister of Higher Education, the science and technology of Gregor Golobič in obtaining substantial public grants and public contracts for companies in the Ultra Group, the Urban City Card Project, the Ljubljana passenger transport system, the Ljubljana passenger transport d.o.o., the fictional business of protecting Mercator d.d., the electronicisation of student food, which is supposed to be carried out by the economic company Margento R&D, in which Gregor Golobič co-owner, for transferring the area of electronic communications from the Ministry of Economics to the Ministry of Higher Education, science and Technology, the determination of political responsibility due to the suspicion of the State of the State, that the State responsible for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance for the State of Education and the State of Education for the State of Slovenia took over. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decisions on the composition and appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents and members of the members of that Commission of Inquiry, by which France Kek, Member of the Zares Group, is removed from the post of Deputy Member and appointed as Deputy Member by Tadej Slapnik of the Zares Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. 78 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the study of the resignation of two members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. By letter dated 15 and 23 October 2009, members of the RTV Programme Board of Slovenia, Dr Boris Vezjak and Jože Snoj informed the President of the National Assembly that they had resigned from their duties as members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and had asked the National Assembly to begin the discharge procedure with that function. The draft conclusions were presented to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has Franco Yuri, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u241	Mr. President. In view of the current state of affairs, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u242	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u243	public broadcasting, censorship, pressure on play, labour legislation, loss of confidence on the part of journalists and other employees. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u244	I ask peace in the hall, no comments, no interlocutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u245	No wonder two members of the RTV Programme Board retreat. [[...]] Maybe someone's having fun, but we're not surprised. We've been expecting such a withdrawal. They're not the first to retreat. Dr. Vezjak took up his term in spring 2007, followed by the Government of Miheljak, who stepped out of the world together with Mrs. Hribarje and Mrs. Lesnik Pučko. The three councilors left RTV Slovenia after a complication due to an impatient speech in the Pyramid show. If the resignation of the above-mentioned protests was due to one broadcast, Dr. Vezjak, who is one of the most active members of the RTV Programme Council, could count on many reasons. He has repeatedly warned, including publicly, about politicisation, about demonstrations of power, about absurdity and about non-compliance with labour law and journalistic autonomy. Many questions have not been answered by RTV management. The last case was also the appointment of a new responsible editor of the multimedia centre RTV, the appointment without consent and without the support of most journalists. In addition to Dr. Veszak, the poet, writer and essayist Jožef Snoj decided to take the same step, mainly because of the harmful and wasteful commercialization of RTV. As a member of the programming board, he estimated that he had no influence. I think that these two entrances are another proof that the media landscape needs to be changed systematically as soon as possible in such a way that politics will no longer intervene and run such important public institutions as RTV.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The mandate-election commission presented the following conclusions to the meeting: The National Assembly notes that Dr. Boris Vezjak resigned from the function of member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed under the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. Therefore, pursuant to the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 18 of the RTV Act, Slovenia terminates its mandate as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006. The term of office shall expire on the date on which the findings are made. The National Assembly notes that Jože Snoj resigned from the function of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed under the seventh indent of paragraph 6, Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act, and therefore, pursuant to Article 18, third and fourth paragraphs of the RTV Slovenia Act, terminates his mandate as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, established in 2006. His term of office shall expire on the date on which he was informed of the findings of the National Assembly. I take it the assembly has come to its conclusion. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana - Criminal Section concerning the indictment filed by the District State Prosecutor in Ljubljana against the MP of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana for consideration by the Chamber of Criminal Procedure. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana - Criminal Section. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I K 3902/06 of 8. Ten. 2009 in connection with the indictment filed by the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly of the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite, which he claims to have committed a crime of regret under Article 169/II of the Penal Code relating to Article 178/II of the Penal Code does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly to the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 4. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint two Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. By letter dated 4 November 2009, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that Dark Bohnec and Dr Timothy Jagrič be appointed vice-governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Eric Kerševan, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. You have before you proposals for two vice-governors of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia following the belief of the President of the Republic that the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia should be strengthened. Strengthening, of course, in this case means two things: ensuring their stability and introducing new knowledge, new sciences, new knowledge into a functioning institution. This conviction is also followed by the proposal that is before you. Mr Darko Bohnec has already served as Vice Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. He performed this function well, proved his expertise and, with the support of the Bank of Slovenia, also ran for the extension or renewal of the mandate. Its re-appointed shall be entered in that first part, i.e. stability in the functioning of an institution which proves that good work in bodies is also properly rewarded and recognised. The proposal by the President of the Republic for the appointment of Prof. Timotej Jagrič as second vice-governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia is followed by that second proposal, namely that other objective aimed at introducing new knowledge, new knowledge and new knowledge into the functioning of our institutions. And Professor Timotej Jagrič as Professor of the University of Maribor, also proposed by a group of respected scientists, will make an important contribution to the further development of this institution in terms of academic knowledge, including in terms of practical experience on various projects. In accordance with the Banka Slovenije Act, the President of the Republic therefore proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the candidate be appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] We're done presenting these views. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of two Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia appointing Vice-Governors and Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič SD, Robert Croat SDS, Franci Kek Zares and Guido Kres SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[80 members voted in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table, giving its name and surname. May I have a word with you in the hall? Instructions should be read as usual and required by the Rules of Procedure. May I have a word with you in the hall? It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, each candidate proposed will be elected or appointed, if voted for by a majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booth. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 9.25 p.m. and will continue until 21.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I'm adjourning this meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 9.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u249	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. We're continuing our session. We are moving on to consideration of the cut-off point, which is on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint two Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I will read the minutes of the vote on both proposals. Minutes of the conclusion of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate, Dark Bohnec, for the Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 November 2009. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 77 votes were valid. 57 Members voted against, 20 Members or Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Darko Bohnec was appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. The term of office shall begin on 5. 3. 2010 Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate, Dr. Timotej Jagrič, as Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 November 2009. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 77 votes were valid. 74 Members and Members voted against by 3 Members or Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Timothy Jagrič was appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate the Vice-Governors and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and wish them a successful job. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on alternative dispute resolution. On Tuesday 17 November 2009, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 183(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 11th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. Good night.
