ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Vili Rezman by 6 p.m., Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr Franz Bogovic all day and Mr Franc Jurša from 12 p.m. on. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Official List of the Republic of Slovenia, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the text to the representative of the Government, Dr. Janez Pogorelc, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Legal Service. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The main solution to the proposed Amendments and Supplements Act of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia is quite important. This is because, in accordance with the new regulation, the Official Journal would come out only in electronic form and the printed edition of the Official Journal would be abandoned. Such a solution would follow technological progress in the field of electronic communications, and, on the other hand, it would also allow for a more frequent publication of the Official Journal, if necessary, while reducing the issuance of the Official Journal, which would also result in a reduction in the price of publication. The solutions proposed are designed to ensure that the Official Journal is still widely accessible. All public authorities with official hours will have to provide individuals with access to the electronic edition of the Official Journal and administrative units and general libraries will have to provide free access to the printed electronic edition of the Official Journal. On the other hand, we also anticipate the possibility that individuals will still be ordered to print an electronic edition of the Official Journal, which would also be delivered by the public company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, but not only within these deadlines, so as to ensure greater rationalisation. The proposed law also provides that the management of the electronic public procurement system by public service is carried out by the public company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia. The government of this solution is primarily based on the development of e-business in the world, by the fact that it is also comparatively legal in five countries that the electronic form of issuing an official sheet is the only official form of issuing an official sheet, that there is a marked trend in other countries to move gradually in this direction in order to make better use of these opportunities offered by technology. The important reason why we are proposing this solution is also that, precisely because of the development of electronic technology, the number of subscribers on the Official Journal is significantly decreasing and it is only in the years 2000 to 2008, from which we have the Official Journal also on the Internet, from 17800 to 4200, which, of course, also causes a significant loss of income or revenue and thus raises the question of the rationality of such a way. In this way, if the printed edition of the official gazette is lifted, it will also be possible to lower the publication prices by 7%, which will save users €130,000 annually, while maintaining the form and manner of transmission of the electronic edition on the website of the Official Journal. It may not be too much to mention the positive effects on the environment due to the reduction of the press. Now, of course, if [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Oh, thank you so much, because I've told you everything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u3	If you want, it's half a minute. Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you so much and good morning. The Law on the Official Journal was discussed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 12th meeting, on 1 December. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: members and members of the Committee had a proposal for a law as a material, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Commission of the State Council. Amendments to the Coalition's parliamentary groups of 25 were tabled for consideration on the home labour body. 11. 2009 At the meeting of the Committee they were present: the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the legislation as a bill-maker, the Legal and Legal Service and the representative of the proposer, i.e. the Deputy Director of the Government's Law Service Mrs. Globokar. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service did not have any significant comments, except that the amendment of the coalition groups of things or the text of the law improves. The State Council, or the competent Commission, supported the proposed text and the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups by Articles 3, 6, 9 and 10. In this way we have drafted the text of the law, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Good morning and good morning! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the amendments to the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia Act. As has already been said, the aim of the proposed amendment is to establish an electronic publication of the Official Journal as the only official form of the Official Gazette by 1 April 2010. This also reduces the costs of publication of regulations, as well as the savings of the budgetary resources of the public authorities, of the local self-government communities and of other entities publishing their acts in the Official Gazette. For the sake of the current regulation, i.e. the issue of an official paper in printed form, the fact is that such a form is a copy of an official paper in most Member States of the European Union, 22 countries. However, it is not possible to make the official press more easily accessible to certain groups of people. In fact, this was our only thought, which, according to our assessment, does not weigh so much that DeSUS Members would not join in supporting this novel. Let me explain, it is our reflection on an agreement on how older people will access the official press, given that it will only be issued electronically. For we all know that the older population is not much of an electronic handshake. That is why, in our opinion, at least at the beginning of such a change, most of them will see some resistance. Perhaps even the reduction says, however, given that individuals, natural persons, were not the numbered contracting authorities of the official press in printed form, and that access to the official press in administrative units and in general booklets will be made available to natural persons, I think, as I have already mentioned, this is not a reason for the possible non-support of this proposal. In favour of the proposals, our conviction is also expressed that this amendment will not undermine the constitutional principle, the mandatory publication of regulations in the Official Gazette. The Constitution or the validity of the rules binds to their publication Article 154 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since the rules will be published in the Official Gazette only with the distinction that the publication will be purely electronic. Nor will this amendment undermine the constitutional principle that implies the application of legal rules. Members of the DeSUS are confident that the amendment will continue to make it possible to publish all the adopted rules, both national and local, which means that persons will be able to familiarise themselves with these regulations and to act in accordance with them. We will therefore contribute to the adoption of the amendment to the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Member Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u8	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The importance of the Official Journal Act stems from Article 154 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the validity of the rules is related to publication in the Official Gazette. It is therefore so important that the rules are published in a way that makes it possible for everyone to know their contents. It is also important from the point of view of the established legal fiction 'ignoratio iures nocturnal', which means that individuals know the legal rules, because if they are infringed and a legal safeguard procedure is initiated against them, they cannot plead that they did not know the legal rule and that they did not know what they were doing wrong. The fiction is based on the fact that the legal rules must be in advance, that is, with the entry into force, the publication in the Official Gazette and accessible to all to get acquainted with them. In accordance with the current regulation, the Official Journal shall be published in electronic and printed editions. In the Republic of Slovenia as well as in other European countries, the development of technology makes it possible to see a strong trend in the information and use of electronic communications. It is also a witness that the number of subscribers to the printed edition of the Official Journal decreased from 2000 to 2008 from 17,800 to 4,200. However, there is no doubt that it is free of charge that important information contributes significantly to the increased use of the electronic edition of the Official Journal. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we believe that even under the new regime, when the Official Journal comes only in electronic form, it will be possible to get to know its contents to anyone who wants it, so we will also support the amendment of the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u10	Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! In the Social Democrats Group, we will support the proposed amendment of the Official Journal Act, as we also supported the adoption in 2000 of the Law on the Official Journal, which introduced the electronic edition of the Official Journal with free access. During this four-year period, the Government’s Legislative Office found that the number of subscribers to the printed edition had decreased significantly and that this year’s loss would be slightly higher than a year ago. The number of subscribers has decreased over the past four years, and some are also likely to be accounted for incurring management costs, and some are also due to the possibility of free access to the electronic edition of the Official Journal. The electronic edition of the Official Journal will be available to all, including those who may not have access to or may not have done this at home. An overview of the electronic edition of the Official Journal, as already mentioned, will now be made available in all state bodies with designated official hours and administrative units and general libraries, in addition to free access to electronic editions, will also allow free access to the printed electronic edition of the Official Journal. With regard to implementation, it is likely that further implementing rules will be necessary in this area for the law in order to be able to live in practice. But no matter what the proposed legal solution in the Group of Social Democrats is, we support it because it is user-friendly and follows the development of eGovernment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've all heard that ignorance of the law is damaging. It is probably not the point that all citizens read all the issues of the Official Journal, but that they are accessible to people. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that when it is introduced as an official issue only as an electronic form of the Official Journal, the costs of publishing regulations will be reduced and budgetary resources saved. We note that lawmakers have followed that the Official Journal will remain accessible to all, including those who may not yet have Internet at home today. However, despite all technological progress, once again the internet is not a mandatory assumption for every household. We support the proposal that the state authorities which have an official hour to deal with the parties should also provide insight into the electronic edition of the Official Journal. The administrative units and general libraries are intended to provide an overview of the electronic edition of the Official Journal. We therefore support the aspirations of the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We may also consider any transitional period or any longer period for the enforcement of the law, but we will also support this bill in the light of the situation in which the Public Company of the Official Gazette is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda or by the programme no later than 15 to 1 p.m. in the morning. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the general administrative procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The text should be given to the Government's representative for explanations, Mrs Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration. I have a notice that he'll be here in three minutes. I'm asking, shall we wait? Then I suggest we stay in the hall and hope it really takes three minutes. Ms Tina Tržan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, will give an introductory presentation to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposed amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act deal with procedural legal issues that can be divided into three groups: amendments and inspection arrangements that will ensure more effective administrative process control, changes in the public service service institution and addition of the arrangements for the conduct of the administrative examinations. In the first group, the rules in force do not allow sufficient effective control over the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and other laws governing specific administrative procedures. In accordance with it, the administrative inspector may propose to the head of the supervised authority, within a specified period, to carry out a measure or to remedy the irregularity found. The latter inspection findings may be objected to by a decision to the Minister responsible for the administration. The Minister shall, on the basis of the findings of the Administrative Inspectorate, be specifically empowered to propose the implementation of the relevant measures to the chairman or the competent minister. However, if the deficiency is not remedied or cannot be remedied, the Minister responsible for the administration may propose the adoption of measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to Article 307 and supplementing the existing regime shall add the powers to act on the Administrative Inspection. Taking into account the nature and purpose of this administrative control, the proposed measures are not aimed at repressive action, but are a focus on preventive action to ensure the correct and legitimate application of administrative procedural law. The proposal underlines that the supervision of the Administrative Inspectorate can be carried out directly in the case of the supervised authority or only on the basis of documents sent. In the event of the infringements found, the administrative inspector will be able to order that the illegality be eliminated within the time limit set by himself. In cases of infringements which result in a significant deprivation of the public interest or of the rights or legal benefits of the parties, as well as other recurrent infringements which have been ordered in advance, an administrative decision will allow an official to take part in the retraining and decision-making of the administrative procedure. Where an official does not fulfil the conditions for performing acts in an administrative procedure which are prescribed in respect of professional education, professional examination and powers, the inspector shall prohibit further action. In both cases, the injured person shall have the right to appeal to the Minister responsible for the administration. In addition to those strictest measures, the law imposes on the administrative inspector that he may propose the introduction of a disciplinary procedure, the alleged offence or propose the initiation of a procedure for the confiscation of public authority by holders where they are not able to exercise entrusted public powers. The following group of amendments concerns the amendment of the applicable public service arrangements as it leaves the provision for the Authority to publish the whole document in the event of a failure to deliver a public service notice. This is replaced by a public publication of the notification of service by a public notice for the protection of personal data and privacy. It is estimated that it is necessary to inform the addressee of the publication of the notification of service with a public notice sufficient to establish a legitimate presumption of service. This will make service by public notice comparable to fictitious service under Article 87 of the Administrative Procedure Act, when the service provider leaves a message to the absent addressee that the document must be taken over within the legal time limit, otherwise the service will be valid for that. As in the current regulation, the whole document will be made public on the notice board of the Authority and on the national E-Government portal on the so-called electronic bulletin board. It will be equipped with information necessary to ensure that the addressee or other persons who know him can determine that the body wishes to give him a document, information on the body which declares the document, information on the address book, personal name or company, if it is a legal person, address for service, if it has the address, information on the document being hot, number, date of the document, type of document. The document will be considered as served after 15 days of public notice, as in the current regulation. The third set represents additions to the management arrangements for the administrative examinations, where the possibility of public administration employment is expanded, since posts where administrative procedures are conducted do not require an immediate professional examination, but an opportunity is given within three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Market. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act was considered by the Committee at its 9th session on 2 October 2009. Applicant: Government. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. The representative, Mrs Krebsova, the Minister of Public Administration, said or presented the law in some form, as we have just heard from the Secretary of State. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service Mrs Method Hrvat Pirnat pointed out that the new 307.f Article stipulates that the Administrative Inspector in the findings of the supervision shall write a minutes in which the Head of Authorities may order the removal of illegality or other measures within a specified period. The minutes shall have the effect of a decision, which should be re-examined, including in determining legal remedies against the minutes. The proposed proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 4 is, in its opinion, therefore, appropriate. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 5, 6 and 7 below, but adopted two of its amendments, namely Articles 4 and 6. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles adopted, including the amendments, together and adopted it. The bill, however, forms an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u18	Dear Mr. Vice President! The essence of the novelty in question is to regulate in more detail the powers of the inspection which supervises the implementation of these and other laws governing administrative procedures. We are pleased that the Government has finally come to understand the importance of exercising the effective supervisory function of the authorities responsible. According to the applicant, the amendment is based on the knowledge that the current regime does not allow for effective control and the establishment of a legal situation, since it only provides for a general mandate that the administrative inspector may propose to the head of the supervised authority, within a certain period of time, to carry out measures or to remedy the irregularities identified. Therefore, the amendment in question to the General Administrative Procedure Act specifies these general powers. The general mandate of the Administrative Inspector is to order the elimination of identified illegality and therefore to set a time limit in the event of the most serious infringements of the rules of administrative procedural law which result in the apparent deprivation of the public interest or of the rights or legal benefits of the parties, as well as in other repeated infringements to which the Inspector has previously warned and decided to abolish them, is to provide for additional measures. In such cases, the administrative inspector shall be given the authority to refer the official person who has committed the found illegality to re-training for management and decision-making in the administrative procedure and to propose to the chairman the introduction of a disciplinary procedure in which he or she shall be able to carry out his or her duties. As a result of the infringement found, when an act in administrative proceedings is carried out by a person who does not fulfil the prescribed conditions for doing so, as it provides for a measure prohibiting further management or decision-making, the inspector shall, in addition to those measures, be competent to notify the competent authority of the offence or to file a criminal complaint. If infringements of the procedural rules are linked to the exercise of public powers and show that they have been carried out in a non-professional, unscrupulous or under-scrupulous manner, it may be proposed to initiate a procedure for the withdrawal of the public powers of the operators. Such a proposal, which is not binding on the decision-making authority, will be applied by the administrative inspector if he finds that the administrative tasks for which the authorisation has been granted are not carried out or, despite a warning, have been carried out inadvertently, anonymously or recklessly and that has an impact on the public interest in a particular administrative area. In our view, it is also totally pointless to have a proposed regime which provides that a person must pass an administrative examination no later than three months after the conclusion of the employment relationship, where the professional examination of the administrative procedure is determined under the conditions of employment. Following the regulation so far, the applicant was expected to carry out the professional examination of the administrative procedure in advance, i.e. before the application for employment was submitted, since otherwise it was considered that they did not fulfil the written conditions. Further amendment of the law to the protection of the personal data of the parties involved. Thus, the whole document will no longer be published after the service with a public notice, but only a notification of the service with a public notice. In view of the amendment of the General Administrative Procedure Act, mentioned in the SNS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone gathered in the hall. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act brings three important sets of amendments. When serviced by a public notice, arrangements shall be left for the Authority to publish, in the event of failure by public notice, the whole document on the notice board of the Authority and on the national E-Government portal, replacing the publication of the notification of the public notice. The communication will have to be accompanied by information necessary to ensure that the addressee or other persons who know him can find out that the body wishes to serve him a document while at the same time making personal data and the privacy of the individual more secure. The powers to act on an administrative inspection overseeing the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and other laws governing specific administrative procedures shall be added. The draft law thus provides that administrative inspection may be carried out directly in the supervised body, but only on the basis of documents sent, which is management. In the event of the infringements found, the inspector will be able to order the illegality to take place within the time limit set by him himself. In cases of infringements which result in a significant deprivation of the public interest or of the rights or legal benefits of the parties, as well as other recurrent infringements which have been ordered in advance, an administrative decision will allow an official to take part in the retraining and decision-making of the administrative procedure. Where an official does not fulfil the conditions for performing acts in an administrative procedure which are prescribed in respect of professional education, professional examination and powers, a further procedure will be prohibited. The Administrative Inspector will also be able to propose the introduction of a disciplinary procedure, indicate the offence or propose the initiation of a procedure for the confiscation of public authority by holders where they are unable to exercise entrusted public powers or exercise non-professionally. Since we believe that these solutions mean a more friendly and efficient administration for citizens and citizens, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act in the Slovenian Liberal Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. We will support the proposed amendment of the General Administrative Procedure Act in the Group of Social Democrats. The proposed amendment to the new regulation deals with the area of service with a public notice, the administrative inspection shall be accompanied by the powers to act and in the field of human resources it shall be possible to run for a wider range of candidates. The current public service arrangements allow the Authority to publish the whole document, with all the information, on the notice board and on the national E-Government portal, in the event of a failure to deliver a public service notice. This arrangement shall be abandoned or the notification of service with a public notice shall be accompanied only by the information necessary to ensure that the addressee or other persons who know the addressee can ascertain that the authority wishes to serve him with the document. This will help to protect personal data and the privacy of the addressee better. The administrative inspection will be able to control more effectively the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and other laws governing specific administrative procedures. The measures are not aimed at repression, but only at preventive action to ensure the correct and legitimate application of procedural law. The control of the administrative inspection may be carried out directly with the supervised authority or only on the basis of documents sent. In the event of the infringements identified, the Administrative Inspector will be able to set a time limit for the elimination of illegality and may also propose the introduction of a disciplinary procedure, indicate the offence or propose the initiation of a procedure for the confiscation of public powers by holders where they are not able to exercise the public powers entrusted to them or exercise them in a non-professional manner. In the search for staff for management and decision-making posts in the administrative procedure, a better choice will be ensured by conducting professional examinations. A wider range of candidates also opens up. The comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposed content of the law are deleted and included in the text of the law by the amendments adopted by the Committee and the comment to Article 6 will be corrected by the adoption of the amendment to this Article. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed changes better protect personal data and contribute to the better and more efficient functioning of inspection services, so we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a debate and decision on the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on the General Administrative Procedure by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes solutions that do not derogate from the objectives of the current law in the context of the two minor corrections and constitute a continuation of practice. The Government proposes to amend the current public service arrangements, leaving arrangements for the Authority to publish the whole document in the event of a failure to deliver a public service notice. This is replaced by a public publication of the notification of service by a public notice for the protection of personal data and privacy. The notification of service with a public notice will only have to be accompanied by information necessary to ensure that the addressee or other persons who know him can report that the authority wishes to give him a document. At the same time, an amendment is proposed in the context of the conduct of professional examinations to allow for a better selection of job candidates in which management and decision-making of the administrative procedure and their equal treatment are carried out. This proposal shall be without prejudice to the applicable arrangements for the management of the administrative procedure. The proposed provision exceptionally aligns job candidates in charge and decision-making with job candidates where specific rules allow them to pass their professional examination within a certain period following the conclusion of their employment relationship. In a substantial part, the Government proposes a solution that deviates from the objective of the current law, namely, in the area of administrative inspection, it returns administrative inspection to the period of bureaucratic action. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that these proposed changes in the area of administrative inspection are inappropriate. It should be pointed out that administrative inspection is not a classic inspection and in the case of irregularities identified it does not take into account classical measures. The heads of public administration bodies are responsible for irregularities, these are ministers, heads of government services, heads of bodies in the composition of ministries, mayors. This is the top of a public administration where, in the event of irregularities, I have to act by the Minister of Public Administration and, if necessary, by the Government, especially if irregularities occur in ministries. It would therefore be more appropriate to leave existing arrangements in place and to make some improvements within this model. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the correction concerning the service and the professional examination is appropriate. However, I do not agree with the protection and in the work that departs from the objectives of the current law in the area of administrative inspection, which brings back administrative inspection during the period of bureaucratic action, which is, of course, in accordance with the nature of the current authority. The government has therefore not taken the opportunity to change the law in all parts in a positive direction, so we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the General Procedure Act are useful. The first amendment is useful in terms of the protection of personal data and it is right to arrange the service with a public notice in a way that makes personal data more secure and individual privacy. Above all, we find it helpful to amend or supplement the administrative inspection with greater powers. If we want an effective administrative inspection, we must, of course, give it authority and if we want effective officials, we must have an effective inspection with prescribed sanctions. Otherwise, it would be best if the infringements were not at all, but unfortunately they are not, but it is too often that the inability of certain officials is reflected even in repeated violations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the administrative procedure is extremely important because it decides on the rights, obligations and obligations of the parties in relation to the State. Therefore, we also believe that it is right to prescribe sanctions for infringements, not to impose the removal of irregularities and the like, which is not then carried out in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We're done presenting our views. I'm sorry. Mr. Anton Urh on behalf of Dessus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u28	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The orderliness of social life requires the abolition of the type of tasks by the State, local communities and holders of public powers. In everyday life, citizens and citizens are most likely to meet with authority when public administrations decide on the rights, obligations or legal benefits of individuals and organisations in various administrative matters. This procedure is governed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is now subject to amendments and additions. The proposed amendment essentially refers to three parts of this law, namely the service with a public notice, where, instead of publishing the whole document on the websites, it is proposed to publish an appropriate communication containing the information necessary to identify the addressee, the information on the body which is hot and the information on the document itself which is the subject of the service. Further, to act as an administrative inspection in the event of detected infringements. The third set, however, represents a change in the field of meeting the conditions for managing and deciding the administrative procedure in terms of more flexible access to public administration jobs. We view the proposed solutions in the DeSUS Group as positive and welcome in terms of faster, more efficient and more rational business, both from a technical point of view and in terms of the legal protection of customers in administrative procedures. In this context, the proposed solutions will certainly help to remedy the shortcomings identified in practice, and therefore the DeSUS Members will be supported unanimously by the amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. With the presentation of the DeSUS Group, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. An amendment to the law is tabled in Article 6, so we are moving on to the debate on Article 6 and the proposed amendment tabled by the DeSUS, LDS, SD and Zares parliamentary groups. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment's proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, after the end of item 2 of the agenda or when the points are closed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Love of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Ms Tina Tržan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, will have an opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thanks again for saying that. The main objective of the proposed law is to provide a legal basis for the establishment of an additional Member from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. In June 2009, the Presidency of the European Council adopted conclusions on the basis that one of three forms of appointment of additional Members is available to the Member States: the holding of new elections, the taking into account the results achieved in the June 2009 elections or the appointment of an additional Member from members of the national Parliament. Following the principle of rationality, economy, prudence and economy and the fact that elections to the European Parliament are carried out in a proportionate manner, the applicant decided to proceed with the next decision to appoint an eighth member from the Republic of Slovenia as the candidate for the list of candidates to be elected as the eighth member in the light of the outcome of the vote in the elections of the Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament held in June 2009. On the basis of the proposed solution, the State Election Commission will determine which candidate is elected and the National Assembly will confirm the election of the Member. The second objective of the bill is to remedy the error that has led to non-compliance with the Council Directive on the detailed arrangements for the exercise of active and passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State but not their nationals. It is proposed that the condition of obtaining the right to vote and to be loved by the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State other than its nationals be bound to a residence permit and not to a permanent residence. This allows the nationals of the Member States to obtain passive and active electoral rights immediately after obtaining a residence permit if they have been deprived of their right to vote and provided that they are entered in the registers of electoral rights. As a result, nationals of the Member States residing in Slovenia are not citizens of Slovenia, but in terms of active and passive electoral rights for elections to the European Parliament are equal to nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the main purpose of that Directive. On a proposal from the State Commission, the proposal regulates the following situation: by 2006, all persons due to mental illness, disability or disability were completely deprived of their business ability or extended parental right of parents or other persons over their legal age, through their legal age, to be deprived of a passive and active electoral right to vote in the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court found this arrangement to be unconstitutional and the Novela Law on Elections in the National Assembly abolished this anti-constitutionality in 2006 so that, in each particular case, the court has to decide on the withdrawal of an active and passive electoral right or the extension of the parental right. It also gave all persons who had been deprived of their right to vote before 2006 for members of the National Assembly an active electoral right. According to the National Election Commission, there are about three thousand such persons. Thus, only an active electoral right may be exercised for the election of an MP to the National Assembly. The Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament gives the right to vote and to be elected Members to the European Parliament only to those citizens who have an active and passive election right for members of the National Assembly. With the proposed amendment, those with an active electoral right to vote in the National Assembly will also have an active right to vote in the European Parliament, which has so far been disabled. At the initiative of the National Election Commission, an inadequate solution is also addressed, which constitutes an obstacle to the exercise of electoral rights abroad for a person who is registered with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who does not reside in another country. Therefore, the absence of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia is deleted as a condition that the electorate may exercise his voting right for the elections of MEPs in another country. The proposal also addresses two minor editorial shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the president, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much. This law, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, has been considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its meeting, 13 9. 2009 The proposer is the Government and the College has decided that this will be an urgent procedure. The members and members of the Committee adopted the following material, namely the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of State. The amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 5 was tabled for consideration on the home working body. However, Mr Vito Rojej submitted to the Committee a proposal for an amendment to Article 6. A representative of the proponent, Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Krebsova, presented the law in the context we have just heard. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, presented their written opinion in which the Legislative and Legal Service made a comment on Article 5 concerning the clarity of the provision in the work relating to the list of candidates. This comment is duly taken into account by the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the Council of State, Mr Vnučec, said that they supported the law. Members and members of the committee, coalition members, supported the amendment bill. As for the amendment of the Member, Mr Rojo, the Minister said that it was not harmful, but it was not necessary. At the same time, we opposed the opposition Members; we will present more detailed reasons later. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 6 and the amendment to Article 5 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them and the bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u34	Nicely greeted! The basic objectives of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament are to provide a legal basis for the establishment of an eighth Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The Presidency of the European Council adopted conclusions at its meeting in Brussels on 18 and 19 June 2009 suggesting that Member States have at their disposal one of the following ways to appoint an additional Member: to conduct new elections, to take account of the results achieved in the June 2009 elections, or to appoint an additional Member from the Members of the national Parliament. The rational and economic solution is that of the eighth Member of the European Parliament's term of office, from that list of candidates elected as the eighth Member, in view of the outcome of the vote in the elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 7 July 2009. It is worth noting that the European Parliament took a decision this May to have 18 members received by the Member States under the Treaty of Lisbon until the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon as an observer, so that they should not have the right to vote, but to receive a full salary for their work in Parliament provided by the national parliaments, while the remaining costs would be borne by the European Parliament. This cost is €5,164 gross per month. It follows from the European Parliament that each country itself decides that the costs of remuneration are borne by the Member State and that these observers have no formal powers other than to observe the work of Parliament. We believe that there is no need for an observer to be sent to the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament before the full-fledged term of office of the eighth Member. The Republic of Slovenia received its observers in 2002, due to the fact that it became a full member of the European Union in 2004. That made sense at the time, and today, as members, we have already twice elected Members to the European Parliament, and the need for expensive apprenticeships is no longer needed. We therefore support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament and the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice in the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u36	As regards the position of the SDS Group, the following. We welcome the solution. In fact, the European Parliament has made it very clear that Member States can decide on their own whether to run new elections for these Members or to take account of the June 2009 elections. The proponents - the government, they decided on this second path, and we also think it's rational, and I don't say, on a self-evident basis, because of the costs, and the elections were actually a few months ago. Therefore, there is in fact no specific comment on the text of the law itself. But there are a lot of confusion and problems when we listen to the coalition Members; one we have just listened to; and especially when we read the amendment tabled by Mr Rožej, which was later adopted as an amendment to the committee. Indeed, this amendment states that this law shall apply from the date of ratification, a protocol based on the Treaty of Lisbon, which the coalition has now revised slightly in a technical sense and not in a substantive sense. As far as we are concerned, the following must be said, and so said the Minister of Public Administration at the board meeting. This provision, which has been tabled on the committee in the draft law itself, has today been corrected by the amendment, is not harmful, is nothing special and is not necessary at all. What's this all about? When will the new MEPs go to Parliament? What status will they have there? Will they be observers? When will they become full members with voting rights in the European Parliament? It's not decided at this point, it's not decided at this point. This will be decided, not here in the National Assembly and not in Slovenia, but will be decided by the European Parliament and not by us. We will be able to implement their decisions in some way and put them in our context. At this point, it is also unclear who should be paying the observers. The European Parliament proposes that observers be paid by national parliaments. The national parliaments of European countries protest more or less and say: No, let them be paid by the European Parliament. There is no agreement on this link between the national parliaments and the European Parliament at this time and we do not even know what it will be like. Of course, to the extent that these people in the European Parliament are, in our case, one representative, to the extent that they will have observer status there, and when and when it is decided who will pay them, it is perfectly normal for us to send this person to Brussels, not to say 5,000 euros, but to the millions and millions of dollars, on the other hand, to send this person to Brussels, even if we pay it from the budget of the State of Slovenia, because every Slovenian in Brussels, and in particular in such a position as to await the mandate of the European Member, is of great importance for the State of Slovenia. And that's why we can't "chaf" money out the window on one side, and on the other hand say we don't have 5,000 euros. Maybe because it's not the right color - I don't know. As far as the law is concerned, we will support the law in the basic concept, we do not see any reservations here, but I point out that there will obviously be problems following these procedures following the will of the current coalition, so at least you suggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u38	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As you know, with the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon in the second Irish referendum, the main obstacle to the implementation of this Treaty of Lisbon, which, inter alia, brings an additional eighth seat in the European Parliament, has fallen away. The Government of the National Assembly in the proposed amendment proposes the most rational and prudent way of determining the eighth Member, that is to take into account the results of the June elections to the European Parliament, the eighth Member of our country in the European Parliament will, following this proposal, be the one who, or who, in view of the June elections, would be elected as the eighth Member or Member of Parliament if eight Members were elected in June, not seven. There are also different cases across Europe, sometimes countries have such a complex electoral system, for example, France, which is not possible, but will probably have to go to additional elections. Somewhere else, in Britain, Scotland and the rest of the country cannot agree where this additional Member should come from. We, thank God, do not have these dilemmas, so we think that this decision of the Government and the assessment that it is reasonable to take into account the results of the June elections. We believe that it is good and commendable that the Government has, in such a short time after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on our tables, also submitted a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which regulates this way in which our country will take advantage of this new right. It should be noted, however, that in the meantime the European Parliament must agree on how this transition will take place. And until this agreement is adopted, the rules of the game are quite indeterminate. That is why I myself have tabled an amendment, which has been discussed and adopted as an amendment to the committee, which I think lays down more precisely these rules of the game, so that our country will be prepared for a timetable of events in the European Parliament and for decisions yet to be taken. As only a protocol to be adopted by the intergovernmental conference under the Spanish Presidency will lay down the conditions of work for the new Members. The government has no guarantee that it will not pay these salaries itself until then. In the past, observers were, of course, paid from state budgets for Members of Parliament. However, this was at a time when countries had only joined the EU and had not had directly loved Members in the European Parliament, but had been appointed by national parliaments. That is how our Slovenian Parliament did it. The Member of the European Parliament must be elected directly under the European Treaty. This is how it is no longer possible for the national Parliament to appoint Members to the European Parliament. The above-mentioned case of France is at this point controversial. In France, in short, two new MEPs do not seem to make sense to make new European elections, but this is likely to be necessary if the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon are to be taken into account. As early as May this year, the European Parliament decided that the 18 Members received by the Member States under the Treaty of Lisbon should be granted observer status until the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, as has been said. We would have had the right to vote. For observation in Parliament, we would receive a salary, which would be 4.146 gross, 62nd grade, belonging to a Member or a Member of the European Parliament, according to our public sector wage system and the decision on the salaries of officials. It is clear from the European Parliament's material, which has not yet decided definitively that each country will decide for itself how it will pay, whether it will wear them or not, and that these observers do not have other options to operate there, apart from observation. In the Group of Members, we really feel the same way as had already been said in the presentation by the coalition party that we do not have to send an eighth observer to the Republic of Slovenia before the full-blood Member of the European Parliament, since we had observers in 2002. That made sense at the time, but today we already have two mandates of experience. The need for this, as has been said, is no longer in our opinion. In this case, it is a party that already has a second mandate of representatives in the European Parliament, so that we do not see the need to introduce ourselves beyond the years of experience. As for the relationship between the costs of such an observer and the benefits for the Republic of Slovenia, the taxpayers are likely to be able to assess for themselves the benefit of the former minister, who worked for the minister for a year, then received a fee a year later. And if it makes sense now for another year or we just don't know how long it will be possible for Slovenian taxpayers to keep an eye on the work of the European [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is a considerable luxury that even some richer countries will not be able to afford, so it seemed reasonable for us to confirm the amendment I proposed and support the law as it is. [[...]] And for the observers, we'll see what happens to them if we send them in at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Rose. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In principle, we support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group because it provides a legal basis for the establishment of an additional Member from the Republic of Slovenia. It also seems prudent and rational for us to designate as the eighth Member of the Republic of Slovenia that candidate, from that list of candidates who would have been elected as the eighth Member, in view of the outcome of the vote at the last parliamentary elections to the European Parliament. We also support the novelty in the work where it is in line with the Council of the European Union directive on the detailed arrangements for the exercise of active and passive electoral rights in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State, but they are not citizens of the European Parliament. However, an amendment was adopted on the Committee, which amends the draft law in an article on the application of the law. We agree that we do not really know exactly whether the so-called eighth Member of the Republic of Slovenia will be an observer during the transitional period and whether he will be paid from the national Parliament, but we do believe that the entry into force of the law will be aligned with the date of the entry into force of the Protocol based on the Treaty of Lisbon. The Minister herself said on the committee that the Member's status or payment was not a matter of this law or of this novel and that this law spoke of MPs, not observers. So we really don't see the reason for this provision. Unless there may be some kind of blockade on this eighth Member, which we find unacceptable in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, because this is blocking ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the table, we have a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law that deals with some essential issues regarding the implementation of the elections of representatives of the Slovenian people to the European Parliament. The solutions are proposed either because of the need to comply with the Council of the European Union Directive on the detailed application of the exercise of an active and passive electoral right in elections to the European Parliament for nationals of the Member States or to remedy errors in coordination with the European legal order or that the applicant has listened to the State Election Commission, which has in practice experienced certain difficulties during the past elections, including the question of the inadequacy of the provisions of the Law on Elections of Members to the European Parliament, given the provisions of the Law on Elections to the National Parliament in order to distinguish the right to vote. The note also foresees a change in editorial nature, namely the harmonisation of the name of the Republic Election Commission and the deletion of the requirement for the designation of an electoral unit on the ballot paper, in line with the fact that it is a single electoral unit of the Republic of Slovenia in the European elections. However, a key change in this novel is such a nature which, according to the applicant, justifies the business reason for the urgency of the procedure, and the DeSUS Group agrees. At the same time, Members of the DeSUS are also aware that the question of how to appoint an eighth Member to the European Parliament and how to regulate their status in the light of the time frame for taking over tasks or as an observer or full member of Parliament in terms of financial implications for the Treasury is of particular importance. Only solutions that will justify the confidence of citizens and citizens in the usefulness of political decisions are acceptable to us in this regard. We are pleased that the Government has already followed the principles of rationality, economics and economics, which must be at the forefront of the current situation, when drawing up the content of the proposal to find a legal basis for the identification of a new Slovenian messenger and representative in the European institutions, when it has chosen the path of taking into account the results of this year's elections. Members of the DeSUS also believe that the complementary proposal is the result of these principles, also in the work on the application of this law, since, in order to avoid the additional outflow of public finances, in particular in relation to the less productive functionality of the eighth Member in the meantime until the takeover of the full powers, such a safeguard is certainly necessary. In view of all of this, Members of the DeSUS Group will contribute their votes to confirm the consideration of the amendment of the Law on the Elections of Members to the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. We have before us a law that is the result of the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon and the legal basis for the appointment of the eighth Member, who belongs to us under the Treaty of Lisbon, so talking a lot about this law, whether you support it or not, is pointless. We support the law and everything that goes with it. However, I have to make it clear and publicly on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, but in fact we don't really care about seven or eight or nine; we don't care whether the eighth Member or Member is written in one way or another, whether he goes tomorrow or goes in seven months. It is important to us what he will do there; what he will do there! And what Slovenian Members have done so far in the European Parliament and what they have brought and achieved, except for the last achievement, which is actually a ransom for, at least as far as I and the Slovenian national parties are concerned, Galileo - nothing. And it's important what they do there. The Treaty of Lisbon has given more power and powers to the European Parliament, and the explanations state: "The European Parliament, which is directly elected by the citizens of the European Union, will be given new powers. The European Parliament is preparing to increase its competence by amending its internal rules." Does the Slovenian Parliament prepare to increase the powers of the European Parliament and does the Slovenian Parliament even know what Slovenian interests and how Slovenian Members should represent them in the European Parliament? For us, the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon and the increase of competence are only the hope and great desire that, however, Slovenian Members in the European Parliament will seize this greater power with both hands and represent Slovenian interests in the European Parliament, not the interests of Croatia, Romania, Slovakia, I do not know who else, but not Slovenia! However, as far as the amendments are concerned, the SDS is absolutely right with its amendment, we are never and will not decide when it will begin when a protocol, which even in the second amendment, was marked by a number by colleagues from DeSUS. What if this protocol is not called, for example, 18, but 23? If they change it. This is the redundant text in Article 6. It is important that this law enters into force as soon as it is adopted; however, it is clear to everyone that it will be decided by the European Parliament and call on the 12 countries which will give an additional 18 new Members in full. Much of the desire for Slovenian Members to represent Slovenian interests in content, not by number and by salary, we will, and we can hardly wait in the Slovenian National Party, support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Two amendments, the amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the SDS are tabled in the draft law, Article 6. I therefore open the debate on Article 6 and both amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have already said at the outset that the situation concerning Article 6 is such, but Mr Barovic has now said in some way even more vividly the same thing, that in Article 6, we simply delete the text that was adopted by the Committee on the proposal of Mr Rože and subsequently adopted as an amendment to the Committee. It is, however, that the text, which is now proposed to replace in Article 6 the text of the "protocol based on the Treaty of Lisbon" by the words "protocol" to amend Protocol 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the Treaty of Lisbon - that this part of the text does not say anything. This is exactly the same thing as adding a comma or a dot here and going on, today, 16. 12. 2009 is in Ljubljana minus 5 or minus 2 degrees Celsius. What would you say with that? Nothing. Perhaps, for history, that on the day of the adoption of this law was in Ljubljana minus 3 or minus 5. Well, we don't say anything about it. Because if we were to decide by this law when this Member would go, what status he would have and who would pay him, then it would be understandable and logical for me to make such a provision into the law, because this would tell Parliament exactly when he would go, what conditions he would go and who would pay him. It is so clear that this matter is not clear at this time. More! This is not for us to decide, but for the European Parliament to decide. There will be a decision whether to be Members and when to be Members. That's where it's going to be, whether or not there's going to be observers. And it will be up to the European Parliament or our budget to decide whether to pay them. So what do we say to this amendment, both the basic one and the one now ahead of us? Absolutely nothing. In addition to indicating the coalition, it indicates that it gives all the signs - in the case of suspects, it is said that there are many Indians - that it will continue to cause problems. But I don't understand why you have to do this. In fact, this law lays down only one thing: to recognise or take into account the results of the 2009 elections on 8 June of this year. That's what we say with this law, and we don't say anything else. That's the point of this marriage. Everything else below is Brussels's decision. Only after those decisions have they been made, i.e., the observer, the Member who will pay him, when he will perform and so on, will we be able to decide in this House. It is likely that if the observer and the European Parliament pay the costs, at least I hope, there will be no concerns. When a Member is in full function of his word in Brussels - this person will probably not have any doubts, at least I hope not, although "nothing should surprise us", they sometimes said. However, if there is a situation in Europe where an agreement is reached, that observers will take place on XY and that they will be paid by national parliaments, that is, our Parliament, that is our state budget, in which case this decision will still have to be made. But then it will be up to you to decide whether to do it or not. And according to the prognosis, you're going to say no in this case. But why cause conflict here now, in this law, whereby we make it only and exclusively that we will not have new elections, but that we recognise the results and that, on the basis of the results of this year, on 8 June 2009, we are setting up a new Member or Member of Parliament. I see no reason to accept the amendment of the coalition. But I see the reasons for adopting the SDS amendment, which says that this text is deleted because it is not necessary. I repeat, no need! Then it is the same as writing along that today is a beautiful time, or that at this moment it is sitting in the hall of so many and so many Members. It's unnecessary for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u48	Good-bye to all of you! It is very interesting that only a month ago, with a large pump, the National Assembly adopted a resolution. This was a resolution on normative activities, which made it very clear that each legal text should be clear and that it should be limited to regulating exclusively what is absolutely necessary, and that it should not contain provisions which, according to the domestic word, do not regulate anything. The problem with this provision, which was in place, is that it does not regulate anything that the Minister at the Committee's meeting, when we discussed it, has made it very clear that it is an explanation. Interesting! What is the reason why it is working against the resolution again, which is practically now evident in every law that we are considering and proposed by an existing coalition or government, is also a rather unusual situation in this case. In fact, we must be aware that there is obviously some legal basis behind the preparation here, but at the same time political ground, that again, because someone obviously does not like what is for one another, what is for the other - the logic that is profoundly wrong - would like to limit another possibility for Slovenia to actually exercise its interests in the bodies of the European Union. That's all this is really about. And here it is necessary to say that Slovenia has one big problem, which is very little spoken of in us, but more and more decisions are being passed on to the European Union and all or at least very much depends on the ability of the State to take advantage of every opportunity to place as many people as possible in those institutions of the European Union, where the fate of Slovenia is also decided. Poles are the true term in the European Union. At any level of the institution of the European Union, when it comes to officials, when it comes to professional cadres, if any other personnel, technically, any, they have been able to provide an extremely large number of their people and have thus ensured a very large informal influence in decision-making bodies in the European Union. And this is certainly in the interest of the State of Poland. A lot of things in the European Union are now coming together at a time when, let's say, a charter, some act of interest to Poland. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not very successful at this. When it comes to setting up officials, of course, still filling the space, it's about top-paid functions. However, when it comes to any other place, any other area of influence, the informal one, which is sometimes more decisive in ensuring its own interest in the European Union, Slovenia simply does not take its seats there. For this reason, it is pre-emptive to give up one lobbying option that will be offered, but perhaps not, because this decision is not really ours at all, but it will be the European Union's Parliament's decision. But already in advance, giving up and putting Slovenia in a worse position, potentially worsening the situation than the rest of the members will, of course, is not only stupidity, but also irresponsible and harmful to Slovenia. And that is the question that opens up this whole event in relation to this law: why the whole campaign against one person is being carried out, because someone does not like it, and it is forgetting that this person is formally representing the entire EU electoral body there, but in fact it is the Member State of Slovenia in the European Parliament and those Members and Members, as you know, Slovenia has only at this point in time 7 and after a new 8 which means that this is a very important increase in this number. And this in advance, while Slovenia has already not been able to provide enough of its people in all institutions, where it could in any way lobby for its interests, is, as it is said, irresponsible. We also heard the following theory on the committee, yes, because they are Members of all the European people, then this is not important. Wait a minute! Why, then, as an example, Mr Pahor, when the MEP was still talking about how he fought and lobbied for Slovenian interests. Each of those who go there from Slovenia also, of course, fights for the interests of the country of Slovenia. And that this fails, as it was more obvious from the Committee's discussions, to go through narrow party frameworks, and unfortunately the majority of the mood in the current coalition is, but it is very sad. Because it means that you are re-establishing your narrow political interests before the interests of the state of Slovenia, even when it comes to contacting those institutions - formal and informal. And once again, there is an informal contact even more important than formal decision-making, with those institutions that decide increasingly on the fate of Slovenian citizens and citizens and Slovenia as a whole. For the Treaty of Lisbon will be a further step, and the current trend has been moving all the time towards an ever-increasing proportion of the actual substantive decisions being transferred to the institutions of the European Union, its Parliament, the Commission and all the other bodies that the European Union has. Slovenia, although of course operating within the borders of the country, is increasingly obliged to adapt to decisions taken elsewhere. And giving up some possibility of informal influence in these bodies is irresponsible, harmful and, in my opinion, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So, alone in this amendment or in both of the amendments that we are considering, I do not want to go into any major theory of the constitutional nature or anything like that, I would even less refer to any methods of police investigation. I think that's quite incorrect in this regard. I'd say it's actually a very simple thing. It is the case that Article 6 of this amendment provides that this Act shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has adopted its amendment supplementing this Article with a view to further clarifying it. However, he clarified it by making a difference between when this law enters into force and when it begins to apply, since it is a significant difference. To use, we said in committee, but this law begins with the entry into force of a Protocol based on the Treaty of Lisbon, because this Protocol will only apply the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, which provide for a greater number of Members in the European Parliament. The coalition groups have now tabled a new amendment which, as adopted on the Committee, this second part of Article 6 specifies in such a way that it clearly states which protocol it is for, namely, a protocol amending Protocol No 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the Treaty of Lisbon. This is also in the direction of greater clarity of the provision referred to by the speaker, referring to the resolution on normative activities adopted a few days ago in the National Assembly. I therefore propose that we support this amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, and certainly not the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, in fact, is trying to preserve this Article in some way the disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm opening the login time because there are more than one logged in, please log in to the one you want to discuss. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. I will support the proposal by the amendment of the coalition parties, because I see it as necessary to supplement the amendment adopted by the committee. It is a law on the election of Members from the State of Slovenia to the European Parliament. Therefore, I do not understand those arguments that speak of the addition that we are currently discussing - when the law begins to apply, when it begins to apply - I do not see any disagreement and no possibility that this would refer to what has now been a lot of talk about observers from the Slovenian Parliament - pardon - from the country of Slovenia not from the Slovenian Parliament. He's just talking about MPs. Let us now turn to this law to a solution that many other countries also accept, not to call for new elections, but to refer to the results of the elections that have been held. We have accepted this, confirmed it and do not see any fears, but I see some internal disagreement in the debate of the representatives of the SDS Group, who say that it is unnecessary to supplement this and that it is necessary to propose it for deletion, while others say that we are thus closing down the possibility of some exercise of the right that will be if it is reported from the European Parliament. What's going on now?Oh, my God! I see this provision in the spirit of what we are referring to - in the spirit of the resolution on the work of the Government, that the legal provisions are so clear that there are no different interpretations. But I also know the laws that we have adopted in the past and we have separated between when the law is enforced, pardon me, that one is the date of the publication of the law in the Official Journal, and the other is the time of the application of the provisions. The last such law of a systemic nature that I remember right now, or the law that I remember, is the Labour Relations Act 2000 - 2004 probably some other law, where the difference between when the text was adopted and when it began to apply. This debate here is thus unacceptable to me that what has been accepted as unnecessary on the Committee seems unacceptable, but, of course, I also find it acceptable to propose that the text should also be defined precisely, in order to avoid misunderstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. He has a word, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Of course, there is no disagreement between the SDS Members' debates, because we have only discussed two and I, Mr Grims. However, we both made it very clear to you that we have nothing against the law as such to support it, but that amendment is unnecessary. He's unnecessary because we don't say anything to him. I repeat, complete the comma and say that today is minus five or minus three, and it will be the same. It is not necessary because we will not decide on this, but when this protocol is adopted, it will be determined as it will be. When the mandate will be, the observer will not be a watcher when the observer will pay for it - then it will be determined and nothing else. At that time, it will be Slovenia, only then, not today. But I told you, with this amendment, you're suggesting trouble for tomorrow, which is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I think that it is unanimously accepted that the law is necessary and I think that both the opposition and the coalition have no doubts that we have taken the most rational path and even a more correct path, and if we do not take into account the results of the last European elections in Slovenia. Although this was left to the optional decision-making of every country, we decided on the most rational path. With the amendment to Article 6, we just wanted to add an explanation that in no way prejudges anything. And it is already the fact that members of the opposition claim that this amendment is unnecessary, because it does not affect nature and the content of the law, that it is not harmful if it is not necessary. But in their debates, we were able to perceive the fear that one such amendment could also constitute a debate on the role of observer in the European Parliament. We believe that this is not the case, because, as Comrade Gorenak has said, we will decide when it is time to make a decision. There is no reason for the opposition members to be afraid now to hide behind such an amendment a conspiracy against someone against the elected eight Members of the European Parliament. Of course, the issue of observers or observers will be up to date when we decide on this on our own, and I suppose that when the rules of the game are clear when the protocols are adopted, it will also be clear who will pay for the work of these observers and then we will have at least an additional element to make a sovereign decision on this. But I don't know, I don't understand what we'd be discussing right now, and we'd be re-generating almost a cultural struggle around a problem that is purely formal and formalistic. No one in this House denies the MEP's right to become a member of the European Parliament. However, when we discuss the status and salaries of observers, we will define ourselves according to the meaning of this institution at a time when we were already in the European Parliament in two mandates, where we do not need any more, say, preliminary periods for learning work in the European Parliament. I think this debate has gone a little too far today. I call on my opposition colleagues, let's stick to the actual essence of this amendment. If you don't think it's necessary, we think it's not harmful, it's just an amendment that explains something that regulates these procedures in a way that is certainly more correct. So if it doesn't hurt and if it doesn't, it doesn't make sense that we're fighting here now for an interpretation of the role of observers. We believe that observers may not be necessary, but we will talk about this later, and I do not know if it makes sense to open a debate in this place. I understand that there is always an opportunity for this to be an opportunity for a broader political debate, that you are still under the impression of the Assembly for the Republic and that there are always aspirations and desires for it to repeat itself in the streets and markets in spring, but this is another debate, it would not continue at this point. I will uphold the law and uphold the law with this amendment, but I will not support your amendment because it is not an amendment, it is only an deletion [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Yeah, well, let's just say, substantively, it's just the deletion of the right amendment. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u57	The Mag has signed up for the word. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you. The problem of the debate that we have just witnessed is that there is a very big difference between what is being said here today and what has been said on the committee, because it has obviously been said more in truth and less choice of words. We can look at this because these things are public, and everyone can see for themselves that quite unkind words have been made - especially by Members of Parliament - about not paying for the tourism of European Members or future Members of the European Parliament and so on. In short, exactly the opposite of what is now being interpreted here. I have to repeat in one part what the debate I had there, because the word "conspiracy" has been used again, so that we are here to reveal some conspiracies. No! No! I say again: no! We are not talking about you conspiracy to do damage to Slovenia, we are telling you that you are obviously doing harm to the country of Slovenia, that is our point. And that is true, we are convinced by the duality that you say yourself. Now, why is this whole colloquial thing necessary? Even because of the symbolic nature you know very well, you do not hope to pronounce it. The moment a European Member goes to the European Union in such or other roles, it will also be obvious to the last Member of the European Union in Slovenia that the winner of the European elections was alone; and this was the SDS. And at this point, you're afraid and you want to move it as long as possible, preferably for local elections, so that it won't be seen. And if the damage is done to Slovenia - you care, so is your way of ruling all the time, and even in this case there is nothing different. Once again, I'm going to say the key to the story. Our amendment merely proposes deleting what is unnecessary. For what you have accepted on the committee by voting, and what you now offer a little in reverse again in your amendment, is not governed by anything. The decision whether there will be any transitional status, what it will be like, who will pay it, what the conditions will be, will be, in particular, a decision taken in the European institutions in the European Parliament. We don't decide that in any way. That's the first one. It can only happen that we will be offered an opportunity, together with all the others, who have additional Members and Members - so, together with all the other countries - and so it will only be up to us whether we accept it or not. And the only rational thing for Slovenia, if it wants to exercise its interests, is if such an opportunity is offered to accept it. Because it would be extremely stupid and irresponsible and particularly harmful for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, it would be harmful for such options to be abandoned in advance. Because you are afraid of the symbolism of going there by the third elected on the SDS list and then you will see that the winner of the elections to the European Parliament was alone, and that was the SDS. But when that Member goes there, nothing will change, ladies and gentlemen, even if you try to do so. But you will be able to do great damage to Slovenia. For with every man we give up there, especially if this man is very capable and enjoys a very great reputation in the European Union, because he led the entire European Union health sector during our Presidency of the European Union, we are indeed talking about this lady. And this person can have a greater informal influence than someone who would be completely unknown in the European Union. And such opportunities to give up in advance are irresponsible and harmful. So for the last time, we're not making any kind of conspiracy to you, we're telling you that you're obviously doing damage. And at least don't change your mind, because otherwise we're going to have to start quoting from the magnetogram what you were saying at the board meeting when we were dealing with exactly the same problem. That's all it really is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I've seen more interest in the discussion, so I'm opening time for the application. Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it is very good that we have this debate on this law, which will show us that things may not be as self-evident as was said in the introduction to the presentation of the opinion by the parliamentary groups. Now that we are aware that we need to speak in the case of new Members or Members of the European Parliament about Members and the beginning of observers and observers, that in short things are not so self-evident and that we are aware of what the Treaty of Lisbon has brought to Slovenia and why we are adopting this law here today. The Treaty of Lisbon has brought more than one seat to Slovenia in the European Parliament. The Treaty of Lisbon did not bring the mandate of Zofija Mazej Kukovic. This is the right that Slovenia has received, not the right that Zofija Mazej Kukovic has received. We are here today to make this relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and its right, Zofija Matej Kukovič as a candidate who has been given the mandate of the people in elections to arrange this, but to be aware of where Slovenia's right comes from and where the right of Zofija Mazej Kukovič comes from and to put these things together into one meaningful whole, so that, of course, it will be in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon and in accordance with the will of the people expressed in the June elections. Otherwise, someone might deny that this will from June is no longer true, but the government's decision was that it is and I agree with it. I don't think it's going to make any difference if we are looking for any other way to take advantage of this right that the Treaty of Lisbon gives us. It is important to know that this is a fact: the eighth Member is the right of the Republic of Slovenia, no one personally, but the Republic of Slovenia and we are the ones who decide how to exercise this right. Therefore, the self - confidence mentioned at the outset is completely without any basis. She grew up on the wrong herb, on the wrong way to say it. We are only talking about this right now, and we will do it as we need to, and when we need to. There is no problem with who the eighth Member of Slovenia is supposed to be in the European Parliament. But the problem is when and how. And that's not our problem. This is the problem of the whole European Union, the whole European Parliament, which cannot be united in the way of transition. Now you can imagine what it would be like to be told in the middle of this mandate that the Slovenian Parliament will no longer have 90 but 100 Members, and you can imagine how much time it would take for me to consider when the new 10 colleagues and colleagues will sit in this parliamentary bench. I also think it is wrong to say that they are leading anyone in this narrow political interest. When the amendment I proposed was put to the vote on the Committee, only the members of one party and the Member opposed its adoption. In short, everyone else either agreed or they weren't there and they kept quiet. It would be so difficult to talk about narrow political interests and I doubt that the opponents of the amendment really care about the resolution on normative activities, and of course it is not true that this amendment would be contrary to it. This is what the Minister made clear on the committee herself, which is also to be checked in the magnetogram. However, speaking of observers, as this debate has also brought to light, although the law itself speaks of Members, we can, of course, wonder how Slovenia's interests have now been enforced in the European Parliament. The representative of the Slovenian National Party mentioned something about this and the SDS representative also mentioned that Slovenia is not taking advantage of the possibility and is conscientiously giving up. While it was mentioned indirectly, Slovenia took advantage of its potential. Minister Lahovnik did so very well and for the first time brought the headquarters of the European Agency to Slovenia. And if we are already weighing where to spend the taxpayer's money and who better to lobby in the European space for Slovenia's interests, then I suggest that the Minister of Economy has the best of his. However, it must also be said that the best way for Slovenia to take advantage of all these lobbying opportunities is to send an observer there - who? Yeah, lobbyist! Now we will probably have different opinions on how respectable and capable Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic was. If she's such a man, then why did she need one year to make up for a ministerial salary and couldn't find another job? And if I could understand, with all the qualities you attribute to it, that, at least after June 2009, when it was clear to SDS members that it was already practically a Member of the European Parliament and in fact there was no reason why I should not travel to Brussels with the other 7 members, at least until the end of receiving the remuneration for the ministerial salary, I should lobby in Brussels for the interests of Slovenia. Because if she hasn't done it now in this period for this same money, I don't see why I would be doing it so much better from now on. I cannot agree that everything that is to the detriment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is also to the detriment of Slovenia, as I cannot agree that all that is good for the Slovenian Democratic Party is good for Slovenia. And we are different here, so this debate on observers is probably going to be a big one, and that is why this debate about the 8th Member or MEPs for the European Parliament is also going to be a big one. I myself firmly believe that the amendment I have proposed to the committee and was later adopted is good to clear up a lot of things. To clearly limit the right of the Republic of Slovenia to the eighth Member and the right of Zofija Mazej Kukovic to be elected by the European Parliament in June and what this means. And that's what we're talking about right now - what does that mean that she was eight-pointed at the time and when these two rights could be linked. In my view, they will be linked when their implementation is clearly determined, and this will be reflected in this Protocol, which is referred to in this transitional decision, which is now governed by the amendment I have proposed to the Committee and will be improved by the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. I will of course support this, I hope that most of it too, and I believe it is for the good of Slovenia. But if it's to the detriment of anyone, it can't be my problem, because the damage to someone else isn't my problem, and it's good for Slovenia and I'll do it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u61	I see interest in the debate, so I'm opening time for applications. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u62	I wanted a replica more, but if I wasn't clear enough. Of course, the Lisbon Treaty itself does not provide the city of honourable Members, Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, former ministers, but it has been given to the electorates and voters who have decided that SDS is the winner. And you're afraid of that truth. And since my colleague has turned my words around and even expressed doubts as to whether the situation of the electorate is still the same, I repeat the same offer that I have already made on the committee: if you want to check it out, my respectable colleague, I will be the first to sign if you want, only if you will all vote for it. On the initiative of holding new elections to the National Assembly, a Member or Member of the European Parliament may be re-elected at the same time. If you hope to do so, I am firmly convinced that this would be extremely useful for Slovenia, given the truly magnificent economic success of this government - I have tried to remain serious when I say so. It's a very different thing here. The point is that once again, Slovenia has not taken advantage of all the opportunities far from this. This is what people, when we go to Brussels, our people, from Slovenia, who were sent there at the time of different governments, warn us that there would be opportunities, but do not take advantage of them to get people from Slovenia there. Slovenia, I don't know if it can offer or can't find out whether we are Slovenians and Slovenians that we don't want to go there, but it's a big mistake. But when such an opportunity is offered, it is cancelled in advance, but it is a great foolishness and is harmful to Slovenia, just as it is harmful to look on the other hand, and to look at who, when an opportunity is offered, is sent there. I am very interested in how, in the European Union, Mr Cvikl will now sell his truth when he has mixed what taxpayers stand for when it comes to public debt and what is private debt, which is neither burden nor incidentally taxpayers of Slovenia, because he has regularly done so in the National Assembly and will now be able to do so in an institution of the European Union. Who's gonna buy it there? What will he do with such a way if he continues there and is likely to achieve it with the European Union? That's the frame of the current government. And if we sum up the two people that are being sent there, when the Government already has this opportunity, and secondly, not to take advantage of all these warnings, those vacant cities that are available in Slovenia under some informal quotas, and that at the same time wants to prevent a good man who has a very high reputation in Europe, which can be verified and proved, because he led the entire health sector during the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, and this is very successful to go there to do something for Slovenia - you know, when you add these three together, then only what I have said a few times. Apparently, in your narrow clienthouse, you put once again political interests, narrow political interests before the interests of Slovenia. And please, at least, when it comes to the exercise of Slovenian interests in the international environment, including the institutions of the European Union, go beyond this narrow party view.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. It is absolutely irrelevant to discuss how many Members Slovenia will have in the European Parliament. But if none of these Members do anything for Slovenia and only know about Slovenia when there are elections. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have the worst percentage of European spending, that we have unresolved all minority issues, that we still still have an open, unresolved issue with Croatia. And now I ask you here, how many MEPs in the European Parliament is the principle of this subject, who has even dealt with this topic? And if we move on to sending another observer now, no matter how it is written, what this Member, observer or whatever his name is, do if he has no voting rights there, if he can only be at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, if it costs, say, the Republic of Slovenia there about 10,000 euros per month plus travel costs, plus the rest of the ratings, and if at the end of the day we talk again about that we have some statisticians who are not going to the meeting at all. I am sad about the fact that we do not give the European Members any task in this House, that the Government will never remember them, that it never invites them, that it never owes them, and that it has never assigned them a single task before. Of course, I also wonder if it makes sense to continue this work. The European Members are themselves for their own good, they have good ratings and, of course, excellent salaries. In short, well-paid jobs. And as has already been said: instead of Europe being our mother, she is our great stepmother.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. But today was the first time that I had disagreed with you at 99% - so, Mr Yuri, I am telling you, except for that last part. I don't know why you have such unnecessary fears, or why. I don't know what's going on. About the rest, work, of course, but I absolutely agree with you, because we were basically talking the same thing. But obviously the vote will be different. So, I'm saying that this amendment is not necessary, which means the same thing as nothing, and you're saying it's not harmful. So we're talking about the same thing. So if it is not harmful, then I will now propose an amendment to snow today in Ljubljana to add it to it. That won't hurt either. Will you support me? Look, that's what we're talking about. We're talking about this, you're talking about not hurting, and I'm talking about not having to. So it doesn't have to be if it doesn't hurt. Look, that's what we're talking about. But this law could have already stopped considering, "de facto" is a fact, we could have already concluded, they were at the next point if this amendment were not there. Because with him, I'll say, you don't regulate anything legally, but you suggest in the debates some things for tomorrow - tomorrow's behavior you suggest. And that's why we talk so much. Now, Mr Rozej, you have gone even further, and you have already raised the question that who says that those elections in 2009, June 8th, should be recognised at all. Yes, by this law, we recognize them. With this law. So if someone didn't know that by this law we're admitting these results, today he's wondering if it could be any different, let's just do what Comrade Grimes says. This is also a possible option. You know, Mrs Kukovici, today, to pay for all these things, and I'll say this: someday you won't be a Member, someday. Neither do I. We'll see, then I'll remind you if you're exercising this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. The amendment is obviously important. It doesn't matter whether a replica or not, you have a chance to discuss it, so that's not the problem. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. This law must be adopted, for sure. We must do this task. But I deeply agree with my colleague, Friend, when he spoke about the fact that unfortunately our European Members have failed in Brussels. We were already at the end of the previous mandate, the previous set-up, and in particular at the beginning of this mandate, we were critical of the interest in working on individual committees. For example, Slovenia certainly has the most and also the most successful drawback and the biggest problems will certainly be in the future, the funds in the agricultural field. I have information, and we have also publicly criticised this at the beginning of this mandate of the European Parliament, nor was there any member in the previous term, nor did he get close to this issue in the committees in Brussels, nor in the current mandate. That's why I think there are untapped possibilities here, too. But luckily for me, because I know quite a few of them, we have a good mission in Brussels, a professional mission, and luckily for me, this work is good and this lack of interest in Members doesn't even know what's going on. But as it is said, the Treaty of Lisbon gives us this opportunity, we must do it and I will vote for this law to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The aim of the law is to establish an additional Member of the European Parliament. This, of course, is taken into account here and the result achieved in the elections following the electoral commission's proposal must be taken into account. The main problem is payments that are not set out anywhere for observers. Slovenia has seven Members and there is no need for an observer. Which, in some ways, would be justifiable for further work when the observer is a Member. The Member of the observer shall not be a State undertaking and shall not be a mandatory category. This law has no financial implications, and this novelty does not solve anything about paying. With regard to the observer in the EU, it is not yet harmonised who should pay the observers. The observer should not have the right to vote, i.e. in some way a trainee who will receive a salary from the Republic of Slovenia, not from the EU. We have no legal basis for an observer, so the debate is irrelevant if we talk about names, which is still premature. The current Member will be invited to the European Parliament when the Protocol calls on him, and then all legal consequences will also arise, which also bind the payment of costs, wages and everything accompanied by a Member in the European Parliament. Although we do not have any reservations about this in our party, it is right to respect the rule of law, as equality before the law must apply to everyone. The interests of the parties must not prevail over the interests of the reasonable. In the European Parliament we have 7, I hope that the able Members representing the state of Slovenia, and I see no reason why we need to raise the rating of the observer. Otherwise, we'll make the right decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I have not heard from anyone in the debate on this amendment that this amendment is destined for a decision on the election of a Member or Member of Parliament, who will represent our seat in the European Parliament for the eighth time, or that this amendment can change anything. On the contrary, the talk was that the amendment was harmless, unnecessary and similar. If that is true, then I do not understand why there is so much debate and why so many views that are not directly related to this amendment in today's session. I'd like to give my opinion on this amendment. It's not necessary, it's not harmful, but it explains something that's right for us to know, and it's right for voters and voters to know. It explains that when we have decided to elect an eighth Member or Member under the criteria of rationality, it will be up to us to decide when the Slovenian Member or Member of the European Parliament will be able to act, not on us, but on the date of implementation or publication of this Act in the Official Journal, but on what content and when Protocol 36 will be signed in the transitional provisions. And that is probably the right thing to say to ourselves not to discuss without the need to discuss whether or not we need an amendment and what the law means or not, and especially for people. And once the protocol is adopted, we will have a clear answer as to when the options for a full performance of the function of a Member or Member will be, and possibly also the answer that, in the interim period of the States that are acquiring new Members, they may decide whether or not to send observers and under what conditions. And that's all this amendment requires. I think that the content is correct and that it is also corrected for our mutual debate, which just says that the National Assembly on this - not when the Member comes, when the Member will be appointed by protocol, but whether the observer will be given an observer or not in the meantime, the National Assembly will still decide. And that's all. Today we tell each other that when it comes to this, we may also have different views, but this does not change the content of this amendment because we do not decide today whether or not we will have an observer, when we will have him and under what conditions. Therefore, I personally think that it would be enough to discuss this because we have explained everything. Above all, that this amendment does not have as great a consequence as some of them want to show that it harms Slovenia and the exercise of our interests, because after all, we have seven Members and Members, and whoever says so also speaks about the fact that they are poorly representing our interests in the European Parliament, which I would not like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, President. I'd go on where my buddy Potsch stopped. He talked about us deciding on this law as the most rational way to choose. Of course I agree with that. I also agree that the June elections also apply to the eighth Member or Member of Parliament. It is therefore not clear to me how, Comrade Grims, you can at this moment propose something as irrational as the re-election of Europe, the re-election of the state-level elections, at this moment of crisis. I really want to know if you're interested in anything other than the success of your own client. It is unlikely that anyone in his right mind is well in the midst of a crisis of words, but now there is a political crisis, economic and financial crisis is not enough, let us now change the government, vote one way or another, meet in Parliament, choose new ministers again and so on, and in between, things should go into francs. Really, this is really "for me a flood," just to be SDS," as you say, "clearly that SDS are winners, and everyone else should do whatever it is, because it doesn't matter what happens. That really seems to me to be the attitude of a country that is completely irresponsible. It will be difficult for you to convince me that a person who has not been able to find a job for himself in one year and in the next period in Brussels will lobby for Slovenia in a way that if we do not do so, there will be irreparable damage. I beg you very much, who is the leader of the narrow party interests here? The amendment on the table is a good one. I think it is also necessary because this debate has shown that we are interpreting this right of Slovenia to the eighth Member in a completely different way. And let me answer my colleague Gorenak. It is true, Mr Gorenak, that I myself will probably apply for compensation once I am no longer a Member. But at that moment, neither I nor any of my client colleagues will declare me the best possible lobbyist of Slovenia in Brussels, but I will not know what to do. That seems like a fundamental difference to me. That seems like a fundamental difference to me. And here we need to be fair and moderate in statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's a replica. Please, mag. Grimes. However, I would like to ask that we stick close to the amendment, unless we go to a broader debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u76	For the amendment is obviously of great symbolic value because it opens up the question of how we are represented and who represents us in the European Union, which is actually good for us to in some way illuminate in this House. What I wanted to explain, in particular, was to a respected colleague, who directly addressed to me the message that I was interested in my client's success. Dear colleague! If you have some government in which you are sitting, your coalition has it, and this government takes care of the economic break of Slovenia, which is far the worst in the entire euro area, the fall is there about 8%, and then this same government tells you that if the possibility of 1% growth in the next year, which means that at 8 fall, you will get one puppy back, you know, there will still be a difference, and so much will still be a minus that it will already be a way out of the crisis. And if it suggests, as a future success, that when it has taken over some 60,000 unemployed, then the situation in Slovenia will be one year from now about 100,000 to only 120 thousand unemployed, then, respected colleagues, early elections are the only far-reaching rational exit for Slovenia. For me personally, each party is at risk, as for yours and all others, but I am willing to take this risk myself, because in these circumstances, when there is complete incompetence, incompetence and also great arrogance on your part, when it comes to leading the country of Slovenia, when you reject literally all the proposals we offer as opposition, then the elections that put things in the right place, because the people are always right, the only rational way out. The disaster we've been in is unfortunately what we're witnessing, and that's why it's actually the best argument. And not to mention that we are then interested in partying or personal interests - if we were interested, we would certainly not be prepared for risk. But risking for Slovenia in this situation is still worth a lot, because, like this government is bad, the winged one you went to the elections with, Slovenia can lead better, now sounds like the continuing Stalinist self-criticism. It is indeed possible to lead it better and anyone better to lead it than the current coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. As a rule, it's not a replica for a replica. I understand you'd like to discuss it again, so please apply. At the same time, I warn you that I will not allow a debate to go beyond this amendment and I ask you to limit yourself to this. Alone first. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u78	I'm going to be very brief, because we only have a minute, and I'm going to leave my friend Rose a few seconds. The amendment was benign. You added the contents. You yourself have discovered that this amendment is essentially necessary. I think the whole debate proves it. And now I am even more confident that I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u80	In the debate on the general European circumstances, which also affected this amendment, it is necessary to say, Comrade Grims, that you are lying, that Finland has an even greater decline in the BPD in the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment, including its corrections, will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. He'll get the word from Dr. József Györkös, State Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Take your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you very much and I apologize for this haste. The schedule changed a little today, and we tried to adapt to it as best we could. By means of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Commerce, we wanted to address some of the uncertainties of the existing provisions and, at the same time, to deal more appropriately with certain issues, which in practice have been shown that the existing version of the law does not respond adequately to them. However, some adjustments to the provisions are also necessary in order to facilitate the implementation of European Community rules. In this brief introductory presentation, I will bring down seven or more basic areas to complement or improve the proposal for amendments. First time. A clearer transposition of the Data Storage Directive is provided at the same time as the deadline within which operators must ensure the appropriateness and obligation to store traffic data. Among other things, the draft law sets out more clearly the type of data to be stored by operators, sets out more clearly the obligation to store traffic data on the public communications network, and in particular reduces the time limit within which operators must ensure the obligation to store traffic data on the public communications network, at 14 months from the date of the communication for information relating to publicly available telephone services and for eight months from the other data. Another time. The regulation of the construction of electronic communications networks is improving with a view to promoting competition and rationalising the use of space. The envisaged arrangement therefore offers the possibility of co-investing or leasing the envisaged capacity of investors into new public communications networks for other investors in electronic communications networks. It seems very important to us that investors in another type of economic public infrastructure, such as water supply, sewerage, are committed to at least coordinated infrastructure planning and planning. Third time. In order to ensure effective competition on the market where a smaller measure does not achieve its objective, an additional measure is also introduced to impose a functional or functional separation measure on an operator with significant market power vertically integrated. Fourth time. With regard to the efficient use of radio frequencies and more efficient competition, an explicit ban is also imposed on the accumulation of radio frequencies with a view to limiting competition on the market. Fifth. The dissuasive nature of sanctions is ensured by more effective regulation. If we consider preventing competition, it will now be possible to fine up to 5% of annual transport. Six. The regulation of user rights and protection, including users with disabilities and consumer interests, is improving. It's a week. The provisions of the law are also being adapted to facilitate the implementation of the European Community rules on common selection procedures of the competent institutions of the European Community, while at the same time we know that discussions on the new framework of relevant legislation at European Union level are being concluded. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law was on 2. 12. 2009 discussed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. We thank you for your comments. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by SD, Indeed, DeSUS and LDS, except for certain exceptions. The Government considers that the legislative proposal adopted by the amendments has been improved in terms of the vast majority of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly or that the proposed regulation has been further clarified. Thank you very much. It was a short presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u84	Your Honor! Also on behalf of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, a very nice greeting. At its meeting on 2 December 2009, the Committee considered this proposal for a law, took note of the views of the Council of State and the Legal Service on this law and of the presentation by the Minister, who in particular stressed the implementation of the European directives, then of the regulation of the communication network and related infrastructure to promote competition and rationalisation of the use of space and additional possibilities for sanctioning infringements of provisions, as has now been presented by the Ministry. In a very broad opinion, which had already been given in writing, the representative of the Law pointed out that there were many legal errors in the law, that the law was a very incomplete text and that some errors could also be of a constitutional nature and that in her view the majority, but not all, of these amendments tabled, were being corrected. In the light of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee first voted on the proposal to adopt a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, since it was also clearly contrary to the resolution on normative activities, but the Committee rejected such a proposal and then voted on the amendments. He accepted quite 30 amendments, so almost all the members of the law are amended. However, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, at least three points remained inconclusive of legal inconsistencies or uncertainties. In one case, however, a notice of possible non-constitutionality was also given, which was otherwise adopted with the amendment. Finally, by a majority of votes, the Committee adopted this proposal and endorsed it for a second reading at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u86	Respected and respected! Social Democrats understand the area of communication opportunities as the backbone of future development. The future of Slovenia is also seen as a sustainable community based on four development blocks: bio, eco, nano and micro. In this we recognize the new development model, which we like to describe with a balance between dynamic competitiveness and solidarity. The fundamental prerequisite for this is the ability of our country and our society to recognize early enough the fundamental opportunities of the coming decades. These opportunities are closely linked to climate change, which will certainly be the fastest growing economic sector for the next 30 years, bio-food, bio-medicine, bio-materials and bio-energy, with nano-technologies and, above all, nano-materials and information technologies, which will only underline their nature of the basic social infrastructure that will determine the content and relationship of equal opportunities, the divide between the public and the private and the indicators of development. Social Democrats therefore understand the area of electronic communication as an area of public interest. The world's advanced communities, among which we also want to include Slovenia, are aware of the importance of information technologies, whose development after the explosion of the last 20 years has not ended, but has only started well, which is proving increasingly widespread, and what is also fascinating is the extremely democratic potential of information technologies in social networking, education, personal and business communication and scientific development. Following access to Internet and broadband networks, Slovenia is on the European average, but still far below the level of the most developed within the European Union, of course we are talking about Scandinavian countries that have seen this area as an area of fundamental public interest and with an emphasis on the role of the public in the development of networks. The Law on Electronic Communications brings more important news. As a central point of view, we also understand from the perspective of equal opportunities for access to broadband networks a new model, an improved model for the construction of broadband networks. We know that the market cancels in all those areas where urban settlement ends and there is no longer enough critical mass for commercial providers to develop these services themselves, so today we have two Slovenias, one is urban Slovenia, and the other is rural Slovenia, which is facing substantial, significantly worse opportunities for development and access to communications networks than urban areas. In this respect, the law offers new options, notably a model of better broadband construction as a public backbone for development, combines this development with public-private partnerships and better provides for the transfer of public funds according to the principles of state aid for faster development of these areas. Furthermore, data storage, in particular in cases where a particular public interest is highlighted, either for the detection of offences or for the public interest after assistance to the affected, for the protection of competition by better regulation of the position and functioning of the regulator, for the extension of the call to disabled persons, for better protection of users and for some other changes, which have been well summarised in the applicant’s presentation. The rapidly developing area of electronic communications also requires us to closely monitor the future development of this area, so that with rapid legal changes we can capture the pace of this rapid development. This development is in practice extremely democratic today, an exception decentralised and it is our country's duty to pursue public interest in the most flexible and dynamic manner possible. The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u88	Your Honor! If I usually start by saying that the difference between words and actions is a red thread, which is the only recognizable policy of the current coalition, this time I will start a little differently. I will simply say the old Slovenian proverb: "The blacksmith's mare is always barefoot". "Once there is not a time, but twice it is both," is an old Slovenian proverb, and this is the second time that the Ministry covering the field of science has given us a law that is so scandalously ill-prepared that, with the minimum criticism of the leadership of the National Assembly, of course, we should not be classified or assigned to the treatment of working bodies. Indeed, this time - the first such case, by the way, to remind you, was at the time of the amendment of the law on higher education - that the law was indeed extremely poorly prepared, testified to several sides of the long report of the legal service of the National Assembly, including its extensive oral report at the meeting of the committee, where it was noted that there were many inconsistencies, inconsistencies, irregularities in the legal formulation and even some potential constitutional contradictions in the text itself. That this was more than justifiable is also evidence of an extremely large number of amendments with which the committee then tried to correct what could be resolved. But if the foundation is bad, it's like if they suck the foundation, you can build a nice house up, and it'll still break and break. And that's exactly what this law really is. This law, I am firmly convinced of it and is firmly convinced of it by the SDS, should be rejected because of complete non-compliance with the resolution on normative activities, which specifically points out the importance of clear, appropriate legal formulation, to respect the rule of law and also to ensure respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms at the meeting itself. Unfortunately, however, the ruling coalition considered that this would probably be too much of a political blow to their minister, and this procedure is therefore continuing. Surely this is an area that needs some sort of arrangement, an additional arrangement, and no one actually contests it in terms of content. There was also no political party at the meeting to challenge the need for this arrangement. However, this regime must be sufficient to meet at least minimum legal standards. Even after all the amendments had been adopted on the committee, as many as 30 amendments, to the barely longer legal text, the law had been practically written at the new meeting itself, then there was still a warning by the legal service that there were still more inconsistencies, at least three such provisions had been cited by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and expressly warned of at least one potential mismatch with the constitution, where, due to obvious inconsistencies, I could quote again, "the obvious contradiction to the resolution on normative activities", which you so vehemently and with great words a month ago, it is also possible to talk about the potential threat to the protection of personal data and thus also human rights in the broader meaning of that word. Nevertheless, you have decided for the most part to go forward with such a law, but in the SDS we only wonder how it is possible that that minister and that ministry covering the field of science does not even master the science of writing one ordinary law, which, by the way, is not as long or as complicated and as professionally demanding as it seems. For all these reasons, we believe that this area needs to be further regulated, but because of the importance of the field, it is an area of electronic communications, an important modern technology related to this area and, of course, due to respect for constitutionality, legal order, legal regulation, such a law should not be required in [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the continuation of the procedure in the National Assembly in the form submitted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Tadej Slapnik will present his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Mr Grimes was already explained by the representatives from the Ministry on the committee itself that they had inherited the bill from the Ministry of the Economy and built it up as such. I also assess the day-to-day mention of the resolution on normative activities in a positive direction, as this is a very good advertisement for the resolution only in which I believe. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we really support the amendment of the Law on Electronic Communications, as it eliminates the uncertainties associated with the implementation of the Data Storage Directive and also the shorter deadline within which operators must ensure the obligation to store data in transport. The draft law specifies the type of data to be stored by operators and specifies the obligations to store data on public communications networks. An important novelty of the law is that the deadline within which operators must ensure the obligation to store traffic data on the public communications network shall be reduced by 14 months from the date of communication for information relating to publicly available telephone services and 8 months from other data. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the provisions of the law that ensure more effective competition on the market, and in cases where smaller measures do not achieve the objective, they would also regulate the possibility of additional APEK measures in the case of operators with significant market power. However, we expect from the explicit ban on radio frequency accumulation that it will ensure more efficient use and allow competitive conditions to be established on the market. The Law provides for the possibility of leasing the envisaged capacity of investors to new public communications networks for other investors in electronic communications networks. In addition, investors in another type of economic infrastructure commit the provisions of the novel to a more coordinated planning of infrastructure, which must include electronic communications networks in its planning. This will in practice mean that it will be possible to intervene more carefully, with smaller costs and, above all, to intervene more quickly into space and to build more networks in parallel. With, in the amendment to the law, the obligations of operators to publish information on applicable prices and tariffs and on the general conditions of access for all public communications services, and not only on public telephone services, the rights of their users are significantly improved. In the Group, we particularly welcome the provisions of the law that ensure greater equality in the provision of services to disabled users, as they oblige operators to enable people with disabilities to make emergency calls also through the use of speech and sign languages and other forms of unspoken languages. As I have already mentioned, we will indeed support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are appalled at the proposed law. It must be acknowledged that in this proposal, the Government has really complemented the law well under the pretext of harmonising legislation with European directives and is trying to hide in it many such and other things that are contrary to the word democracy. Article 24 of the Law, which gives the police substantial powers, is certainly inadmissible, and is a matter of exceptional cases. Also in the explanation of Article 9 in accordance with the European Law Amendment Directive, you have written a fairy tale sentence stating that the procedures for the allocation of radio frequencies must be open, transparent and non-discriminatory. You wrote it well, but the truth is very different from what it says. It is also true that Slovenia is one of the few countries that introduced the 24-month period for storing data on electronic communications, which was probably not a coincidence, since we have been able to monitor several times in the past how this data was used unjustifiably for political purposes. Despite the shortening of the deadline from 24 months to 14 months for the storage of data on publicly available telephone services and the 8-month period for the storage of data relating to access to the Internet and e-mail, it is still very long. Nevertheless, we do not see the biggest problem in data storage, we see a major problem in accessing and using these databases for various purposes, perhaps political ones. We have doubts because there is no general act that would specify in more detail how to secure data storage. This will, of course, be adopted later and Members of Parliament will have no impact on its content, as it will be accepted by the Agency. In the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed amendments to the law will not be undermined. Moreover, in our parliamentary group we fear this law because it brings us back to the time of totalitarianism, when the "great brother" reads Ubba, accompanied us at every turn. We are truly afraid, and we are also afraid that every day, virtually every day, I am getting information about how different criminal police hearings invite individuals who have held important functions in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me also to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the updated proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. In the DeSUS Group, we are not afraid of these proposed amendments and the amendment of the law, because we believe that there have been major changes in this area since 2004 and that the amendment of this law is urgently needed. We have before us a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications, which is needed to remedy some of the uncertainties and shortcomings, to supplement certain insufficiently regulated chapters under the law in force and to adapt to the rules of the European Union. As we see from the proposed changes, there are major substantive changes in seven areas, in seven sets. In the DeSUS Group, we are also not disturbed by the 30 amendments tabled because we believe that the topic is broad and that it follows that the topic has been well addressed, prepared and that these amendments will ultimately only finalise the amendment of the law to such an extent that the law is acceptable to a wider range of users. Among the main amendments to the 2004 Law on Electronic Communications, one of the most important changes is the possibility that the operator will provide the police, upon request, with the information needed to identify the last location of the mobile communications equipment carried out by the person or missing person at risk. As it is known, operators have not been allowed to transmit this information until now. We particularly welcome this innovation in the DeSUS Group, because this novelty will be used in cases where, for example, a missing child or, for example, a demented elderly person will be left behind when there is a reasonable likelihood that the life, body or material welfare of an individual will be at risk. At the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, provisions were included in the draft law whereby an investor in telecommunications infrastructure must necessarily invite all potential investors, users and co-investors to participate. That, too, seems very appropriate. In doing so, this interest must be safeguarded by the conclusion of an appropriate contract. The proposal shortens the time limit for the storage of data in transport and tightens the penalties for infringement of competition principles. As an example, calls can be concluded on their own networks where all operators have special market power operator status. For these cases, the maximum penalty at risk is up to 5% of the company's annual turnover. The Government is also following conventions that are important for the protection and care of persons with disabilities with a proposal for a new law. Operators will have to provide an emergency call service to use, for example, unspoken languages. Operators will have to make public information on the price and tariff of all communications services, not just for telephones, as has been the case so far. It is also important for users to have a novelty in which representatives of consumer protection organisations will also be represented in the Electronic Communications Council. Given that the proposal for a law brings good solutions and that the drafting of the text also takes into account the comments made by the professional public, the DeSUS Group welcomes the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Electronic Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian national side, we have a slightly mixed feeling about this whole matter, because on the one hand there are proposed changes on the spot, good, reasonable, and on the other hand there are some such strange uncertainties. Although the Law on Electronic Communications itself has been amended in the past, this time they also require the amendment of European directives or amendments thereto. Similarly, subordinate regulations have been amended or supplemented several times. At that time, it was still the Ministry of the Economy's responsibility. The law itself regulates the conditions for the provision of electronic communications networks and the provision of such services as well as other services, the rights of users, the protection of confidentiality to the organisations of the work of the APEK, etc., so that I do not list all matters. The novel itself removes some of the uncertainties and provides for a better regulation of the implementation of the European Directive. In the first place, it is the length of the mandatory storage of data, for a clearer definition of the type of data, etc., not to mention what the predecessors have already mentioned. An important chapter is certainly the efforts to better regulate the construction of electronic communications networks, related infrastructure and the promotion of co-investment. The proposed changes to investor requirements regarding the Agency's new infrastructure and supervisory powers are also important. We also agree with the regulation of the promotion of competition and rationalisation of the use of space and the related regulation of sanctions in accordance with the offence law, Chapter 4, which regulates the protection of competition. Sanctions are well defined in terms of the annual turnover generated on the communications network market or the provision of services. The law also offers an improvement in the transparency of the Agency's functioning with regard to public calls and calls for proposals. With regard to the rules of the European Community, it is also easier to implement decisions of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the selection and approval of systems for mobile satellite services. Among other things, the law also regulates the extension of emergency call services with the possibility of sending text messages and notes to ensure the equality of persons with disabilities in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Some provisions on improving consumer or user protection also seem important to me. I am referring to the publication of information on applicable prices and tariffs and the general conditions for access to public communication services. Operators' duties regarding the extension of accounts are also on the table, i.e. the last three numbers or three places of telephone numbers of people called, all in terms of the protection of the right to privacy and the provisions of the European Directive. The extension of user rights should also be welcomed; here I am referring to the introduction of an oral objection via telephone against a decision on handling or charging. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we have certain reservations or concerns about the proposed provision of Article 104a, which is the transmission of data to identify the last location of mobile communications equipment and consequently to this related private intervention. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has also pointed out the constitutional rights that protect human personal dignity, privacy and security by a decision, I think in 1997. It is the obligation of the operator to provide, at the request of the police, information on the last location of the equipment in order to prevent the risk of life or to find the missing person with limited work capacity identified by health problems. And also with a view to finding a child that was reported missing by parents or caregivers. What is controversial or unclear here is the notion of "reasonable probability" in the case of life-threatening and related hypothetical abuse or error in the use of such powers by the police. Such a verbal relationship itself could be discussed for hours and hours, which certainly would not be productive, perhaps later on. To shorten, in terms of the proposal, we support the amendment to Article 24, but on this later. In general, in the Slovenian National Party, we support the draft law itself or its amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues! Colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, which aims to eliminate some of the uncertainties mainly with regard to the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. The proposal for a new law specifies more precisely the types of data to be stored by operators, sets out more clearly the data storage undertakings and, in particular, reduces the time limit within which operators must ensure the obligation to store data in traffic in the public communications network. At the same time, the law also deals more appropriately with certain issues, which have been shown in practice in the application of the law so far, that they need to be addressed differently, especially with regard to the construction of electronic communications networks and related infrastructure. An important novelty is the possibility of co-investing or borrowing the envisaged capacity of investors into new public communications networks for other investors in these networks. However, investors in another type of economic infrastructure commit the envisaged arrangement at least to the coordinated planning of this infrastructure by incorporating electronic communications networks into the planning itself. The purpose of such a new regime is to promote competition and rationalise the use of space. In order to ensure effective competition, the dissuasive nature of the sanctions in respect of infringements of the provisions of the law relating to the provision of competition in accordance with the model of fine regulation in the rules governing the prevention of restrictions on competition is also highlighted. In order to ensure competition, it is also explicitly prohibited to accumulate radio frequencies in order to limit competition on the market, and the possibility of an additional and extreme measure by APEK to an operator with significant market power, namely functional separation of vertically integrated operator, is also introduced. In the LDS, we also welcome solutions that better regulate the rights and protection of users, including the regulation of additional rights and the protection of disabled users. The Committee has adopted a number of amendments based mainly on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is why, of course, the LDS Club believes that the law has been written with a somewhat unfortunate hand and, of course, we wish that the proposal will no longer take place in future such records and that laws will be sent to Parliament, where amendments will have to substantially less correct the text of the law. At the LDS, we will support the two amendments tabled by the four coalition groups, but we will not support the SDS amendment to Article 24. We are aware of the concerns expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service, that even after the amendment adopted on the Committee, there is a possibility of a constitutional dispute in this text, but at the same time we understand the written regime as an arrangement in the public interest of saving life, i.e. the protection of human rights to life and security, and is proportionate in view of that intervention to the right to privacy. As I said, at the LDS, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 December 2009. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments of SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want to talk? Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I must admit that I welcome the amendment to Article 3 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, because this is a real non-resistance situation in electronic communications in areas that do not have access to electronic communications. We have always encountered calls made so far by the former Ministry of Economy of the former Government responsible for the development of electronic communications in a way that, in fact, laid down conditions that excluded the possibility of competitive access of these calls to European funds in a way that favoured those areas, those places with a greater perspective and the possibility of enlargement and thus increasing the number of connections to electronic communications. It was a very surprising decision that, say, the place on the highway achieves a significantly higher number of points than the place on which it is located, say, at the foot of the Kočev Horn and does not actually have a GSM signal. And it is right to make it very clear in the law that funds for the construction of broadband networks or for the implementation of public communications should be made compatible with the broadband network and should be given priority for those areas which do not have access to or are not available under comparable conditions. This law and the addition to this Act to Article 3 is truly extremely important that access to electronic communications, we can say, is comparable in Slovenia in almost all areas. Of course, funds will have to be provided. So far, funds have been provided from the European budget. This law also makes it possible to plan funds in the state budget, which I welcome, and I think this is also one of the extremely important measures to actually cover almost everywhere in Slovenia with adequate access to these communications. What is extremely important about this Article and the amendment is also the fact that an operator that shows market interest in a particular area must then build this market interest to build this network within two years. If he does not build it, he shall be subject to the criminal sanctions provided for in this law as well. This is also one of those key points where the current operator has in fact prevented other operators from accessing the network, which he would otherwise like to build with European funds, in a way that would change their market interest again and again in particular areas and thereby prevent investment and the resolution of this extremely pressing problem. It is insufferable, if only to illustrate that, today, primary schools, for example, when they account for their salaries, take the whole day to actually bring this program into their computer and that this process, I would say, is long-lasting, almost comparable to those days and periods when this was calculated on hand. The speed of electronic communications is also in urban settlements where it is possible to promote market interest, today far from the expectations of even public institutions, let alone companies, businesses or individuals who want to integrate themselves equally into the communications system and also to enforce their ideas. Once again, I strongly support this amendment, because it really solves a number of problems and I expect the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to take this amendment into account in the call for proposals, which I hope will, in a very short time, prepare for the further development and expansion of broadband networks, and thus solve a number of problems that are faced mainly by areas outside motorway networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Although it seems official that the amendment for Article 3 does not contain the DeSUS Group, I must say that the content of this amendment to Article 3 is absolutely very, very acceptable to us and to our thinking. This is what we are talking about when we talk about electronic communications and broadband connections, especially rural areas that are isolated, which are often deprived of different types of information and the possibility of dealing with larger centres. And it is this amendment to 3 that somehow allows and reduces the risk of building these broadband links and electronic communications in rural areas. It is true that this amendment is defined by all those who show market interest in manufacturing, for an investment in an area defined either with grey or white foxes, but so far that they have shown market interest, including the possibility of drawing on European funds, for the construction of broadband links, but we have not considered these areas because someone has already shown this market interest and we were confident that this operator, who has already indicated it, will also make this happen. There was no further realization of this, so some areas remained out of it and now they prove to be some kind of stain or anomaly in the entire space. This amendment stipulates that if anyone shows a market interest, he must also implement it within two years. This seems very, very important to us. As I said, even though the parliamentary group is officially not written here to submit this amendment, we will gladly support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment? I note that I do not, and therefore I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of SD, Zares, and LDS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm concluding this debate. We're moving on to Article 24. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. First, Mr. Franco Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. We in the Group of Members have indeed carefully assessed the SDS proposal in order to delete this article and have once again found that their amendment is extremely irresponsible. In particular, because if we read exactly what this article is implying, it is clear that it is a matter of improving the law right at a point where it was the most weak and the police or paramedics in the event of a threat to life due to various causes, which are also mentioned by the law in this article, were not equipped, they could not intervene because they had encountered a legal obstacle. This legal obstacle seeks to explain the SDS amendment with alleged unconstitutionality. It is logical not to be unconstitutional that this article is intended to save human lives. And we wonder what responsibility some would like to have to intervene in one of the key articles of this law, in order to prevent what the article actually allows - the salvation of human life. See, the article itself is a very long and very precise description of where it is possible to provide the police with data that can prevent the threat or death or physical injury of individuals, and also of what cases this actually applies. Not only that, but the protector who prevents possible potential abuses is clear, and this is the supervision of the information officer or authority over the entire course and the full implementation of such an article. So there is no reason to doubt the constitutionality of the law itself or of this article. Once again, we call on the opposition or the party that tabled this amendment to think responsibly about its conduct, its proposal, because it is indeed about updating legislation in the sense and, above all, in the life-saving function. The matter is very serious and I don't know if this is the city and the time to play with the amendments just to persuade the Government, to impose this law on unconstitutionality or possible abuses that are not possible under this law and this article. It is not an infringement of human rights and it is not an infringement of the right to privacy of data. It's only about enabling the police in the worst cases to use all their options and find and save human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u106	The blacksmith's mare is really barefoot and the Ministry of Science doesn't master law-writing science. This is the starting point I set up at the beginning. I am sorry, however, that we have just witnessed that then, based on an argument based on the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, we are trying to overtake ourselves with some arrogance and a flood of shame, as we have just witnessed. On the contrary, the alleged unconstitutionality [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u107	Comrade Grimes, could you adjust your vocabulary to this high choir for a moment, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u108	Mr President, you could adapt your conduct to the well-respected High Council at the outset to present opinions when I was literally attacked by one of the representatives by my name and name, and you did not even warn him and should cut him down. Now I'm just responding to the rudeness of the representatives, really, and you're warning me that I can't defend myself because you don't like what I'm trying to say. I suggest that you have the same criteria for all and that you respect the rules of procedure. At least try it sometime, well, it'll work! The problem of this story is that, Sir Juri, if you spoke out of ignorance, but also ignorance is not an excuse for arrogance, that the Law-Legal Service itself warned of the apparent unconstitutionality of this article at the beginning of the examination of this law by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. Moreover, when we adopted this amendment, which was proposed by the coalition, you are ours as you always have, and at the time of the adoption of this amendment, the Legal and Legislative Service warned once again that there is still confusion, uncertainty and constitutional controversy in this article. And you've heard that too. And now you come to the National Assembly to cover it up and yell, you say, "Yeah, SDS something alerts not some sort of alleged dispute." We did not warn, Mr Yuri, she warned the legal profession in the National Assembly, we simply relied on her opinion. And I can add it, and we can add it to some parts. The regulation of the field of human rights under the law is now left here. Undoubtedly, you can't deny it. I would remind you that the Minister has apparently heard these warnings that the Constitutional Court has already made it very clear in several of its decisions that the sensitive area of human rights regulation in any part is not permissible to leave regulation under the law, but that all issues relating to human rights must be clearly and unequivocally regulated in the law itself. And this applies to any law adopted by this National Assembly. This is already the reason for deleting this article. Of course, the whole marriage is inappropriate. I am aware that, if we want to correct this article, we should probably change some other articles, which is why we have not done so, and we have proposed a simple deletion, but that the possibility that we have already proposed to reject the whole law, which was inappropriate, was made and an obvious reflection of the human resources clearances at the Ministry that you are carrying out when all the capable people who once successfully led the European Union have been pushed aside or even thrown on the road in some cases, imposed their personnel under the slogan, "no matter what they know, it's important that they are ours", and now they can't write any relevant law. The well-prepared draft laws, which were, some even from the previous term, you take, add some of your political goals in there, pack them up nicely, and then legally do not harmonise the text, and we get to the smudge, as was the law on higher education and now this law. And then you hide it with arrogance. Such laws should not at all be treated normally and should be rejected by the leadership of the National Assembly. That is why the President has reached out to me before, because he knew that I would also point to this. Such laws are inappropriate, are inconsistent with the resolution on normative activities, and should be returned to the government procedure and written in such a way that the tail has a head that is consistent with the resolution on normative [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , this is said to be a clear provision inside that there are no contradictions and that at least obvious contradictions to constitutional standards do not enter into the law itself. [[..]] When we talk about constitutional standards, we are not only referring to the provisions of the Constitution, but we are talking about the whole issue of the regulation of the legal order of the country of Slovenia. The Rules of Procedure also include the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And if the decisions of the Constitutional Court repeatedly, not only once, make it very clear that the issue of the protection of human rights needs to be addressed in the law itself, then at least we could respect that. You always have a lot to say about respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court. Here, we are not trying anything but the text, at least with regard to obvious unconstitutionality, into a framework that allows for a normal conclusion of the legislative procedure. Then the minister has every opportunity to arrange this with a novelty and bring it to the National Assembly as soon as possible. However, to accept something that even the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly itself would point out in the future that it is so poorly prepared that even after the amendment, all obvious inconsistencies with constitutional regulation are still not resolved, and this is simply irresponsible. And I would like to point out that this is about human rights, about the most sensitive things that touch each individual, about personal data, about his privacy, everything else, and then try to cover it with the problems that you're talking about. We are certainly the first to be interested in protecting an individual when it is necessary to protect him from this. But this should be arranged in such a way that abuses are prevented, that this is consistent with constitutional regulation. In a given case, there is no such thing. And don't make excuses for that, because this will be regulated by sub-laws. In view of the practice of the Constitutional Court, these matters should not be regulated by law, but this should be very clearly and unequivocally regulated in the law itself. Then all these comments and our proposal would not exist. These are the comments of the legal profession, respected colleagues, not the comments of the SDS. We simply point to something others have warned us about. We come all the time from the belief that this is just a "slamparija" like "slamparia" was the whole marriage. After all, 30 amendments in one law, which is barely longer than those 30 articles that have been amended, speak clearly enough about what this law was like and how it was prepared when it was sent to Parliament once. You've obviously pushed the good people away, set your own, now we're facing the consequences, and we're saving what we can. But it is not permissible to solve this in a way that raises further questions about constitutionality and the protection of human rights. Already, if you look at online surveys, 90% of people or 2/3 claim that human rights protection standards have been drastically reduced this year. And why would we be contributing to this in the National Assembly, just because it's going, well, let's hope, at least for "slamparia". And I'm going to end it, because I hope it's "slamparia." That it was not what Mr Slavoj Žižek had in mind when he called Mr Gregor Golobič affectionately, as he said, "Slovakia Stalin".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Juri, as part of the debate of the Group of Members. The Secretary of State, Mr Györkös, then called.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Grims, you probably agree with me that the most important human right is the right to life; I think there is no dilemma here. It's interesting when you're running out of arguments, you're running away and discussing everything, universal problems, but not concrete content. This time, too, you started talking about a variety of things, and I have asked you to read exactly what is said in this article, in Article 24, where there are nine points, nine indents. This clearly defines how, why and in which cases this law and this possibility are applied, if there is a reasonable likelihood that life is directly at risk. When it comes to obtaining data for persons deprived of their business ability or restricted by health problems and in danger. When it comes to finding out where the missing child is. And also point 5 makes it clear how monitoring of the information officer works and how the police cannot abuse this data, they cannot even communicate it to those who have reported the missing person. There are so many guards here that your fantasies about the unconstitutionality of this article are twisted from the vine. You refer to the opinion of the legal service, and it is right, of course, that we are obliged to take these opinions into account. But as politicians and as Members, we are also obliged to take into account all the circumstances that dictate such a law and the need to save lives when they are at risk. And that's all this is about. It's not about any abuse. You have slyly avoided the debate about the article itself. The content of this article was not one word on your part, but you were talking about large systems, "slampariums" and so on, just this content not because you feel embarrassed because the content is about people's lives. And you're afraid of that or you don't care. However, of course, I cannot believe that you are not interested in how human tragedies could be prevented in the future. I honestly believe that this is not your intention and that you do not put aside the advantage of political or political speculations over the needs that are dictated by the resolution of human lives. I don't mean to be pathetic, but this is what this is all about. And it's important. And the public and people expect us to solve specific problems like this. And if, from a constitutional point of view, it is still possible for you to raise the issue at an appropriate level after this unconstitutionality has been established, and this is before the Constitutional Court. I doubt that the Constitutional Judges would also challenge the duty of the state to protect human lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. First of all, the Secretary of State, Mr Györkös, will have the floor for you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u112	Ladies and gentlemen! Talking on behalf of the government and sticking to it [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u113	Mr Grims, there's no replica on the replica, there's no replica at all in the true sense of the word, because the time for discussion is open. He volunteered for the word, and it's done in a consistent way, nothing but. There are no exceptions, Mr Grimes. Please, Secretary of State, Dr. Györkös.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! That I can speak as a representative of the Government about this article and that I will stick to matter, I do not understand it as a restriction, but rather as a privilege, so don't mind if I may be a little bit more dry, but this dryness will contain facts. While the amendment would point to the principle of proportionality, the amendment does not state in what way the proposed regime should be disproportionate. It is therefore necessary to reiterate that the proposed regulation of Article 24 follows a legitimate objective, namely the protection of the human right to life and personal security, where the State has a positive duty of conduct. At the same time, the legal regulation of this issue is necessary, as the lack of such a provision has already led to problems in the timely resolution and search for missing persons, and an initiative has also been launched to amend the law accordingly by the Ministry of the Interior. An arrangement that allows, under certain circumstances and under certain procedures, a body legally empowered in the Republic of Slovenia to search for missing persons, that is, the police, to provide the missing and threatened persons with appropriate data, is also appropriate to achieve this legitimate objective, so we assess and are confident. Who else would be looking for these missing and endangered people? Taking all of this into account, the intervention in the right to privacy, when weighing constitutionally protected values, is also proportionate, namely privacy, on the one hand, life and personal security, on the other hand, and adequate control is ensured by the information officer, who, by the way, also supports this regime. The use of the term, which has been politicised several times, is a "reasonable probability" which is consistent with the same already existing term in the field legislation. It's a term already known to the law on police. The sub-legislative provision provided for in that provision is of a strict technical nature and does not regulate rights and obligations. However, with the adoption of an appropriate amendment on the Committee, the legislative and regulatory powers for the issue of such a regulation have been sufficiently precise and adequately defined, taking into account the comments for which we are very grateful to the Legislative and Legal Service. Allow me only when we are talking about data to quote the third paragraph of Article 104a, which is therefore the data. The data necessary to identify the last location of the mobile communication equipment of the individual shall be the location marking at the beginning of the communication and the data specifying the geographical location of the cells, indicating their location codes during the period for which the communication data are stored, and other data processed by the operator in the personal and other data sets, which is known to be, and may allow a more precise identification of the last location of the mobile communication equipment of the individual. We therefore estimate that the technical specifications are already sufficiently specified in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u116	I am, of course, obliged to reply to the distinguished representative of the party Zares, who said that I did not talk about the content of the amendment itself. The content of the amendment itself is extremely sensitive because it touches on the protection of human rights. That's what I'm talking about. The issue of subordination and, therefore, of obvious controversy in terms of constitutional regulation was highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service, which also drew attention to the dispute of the adopted amendment, which, according to the section, does not solve the issue that this is supposed to solve. None of us object to the goal of saving a man's life, I have already stressed that. I also stressed at the outset that we are aware that this area needs to be regulated. But the people of God, this can't be an excuse for legal "slamparia" and for obvious unconstitutionality, and then for warnings that go in this direction, which ignores. On the contrary, this should be the reason for this sensitive, important area to be so carefully and precisely regulated. And it was more than enough time for that to happen. And that's where the questions are asked. If I go to the content itself now, as my colleague wanted, we will find again the notion that we have been having a problem with the law on police the last time, this is a "reasonable probability", as mentioned earlier by the distinguished interlocutor. This term is, of course, contradictory. All who have at least minimal mathematical knowledge, you know, is also driven by mathematics. Probability is not justified or groundless, but it is an attractive ploy for hair, which, by the way, does not have any judicial practice and is actually very interesting. With some humor, we can also say things in a very simple way. To talk about justified probability is just as meaningful as to talk about the economic performance of the current government. A matter which is therefore contradictory at the very beginning. We can talk about it, and we can laugh about it, just like you've just laughed at it, but it's to be written in the law when it comes to protecting human rights, but it's irresponsible. And at least such things, the use of some concepts that are in conflict with sound logic, with mathematical logic, if you want, with mathematical knowledge, at least such use of concepts could be avoided and at least that basic framework for the transmission of these data and for their processing would be a significant improvement. And don't tell me there wasn't time to fix it. And even to make excuses for this, just as before, was not entirely appropriate, nor with this law will there be, which means that things still need to be regulated legally. And it would be totally irrelevant, time-consumingly equivalent, and legally correct, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of protecting the constitutional order, to delete this article, rather than by means of a sub-legislative act, whose preparation will also take some time and then adoption, and could simply be regulated by a new law, which could then be duly adopted in a fast procedure, as you accept more complex and difficult laws, such as the latest draft law on so-called deleted. If there's no problem with the speedy procedure, I probably shouldn't be at all in this case, but the timing is exactly the same as when you go to the preparation of a submarital act at some department. On the other hand, this shows an appropriate attitude towards the problem and respects the legal order and constitutional order of the country of Slovenia. But when it comes to respect for human rights, you obviously don't care.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u117	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u118	This is a really important article and I regret that colleagues in the SDS have decided to delete a whole article, which would of course mean that this marriage would be seriously disabled or void. I myself agree with many parts of the debate that sensitivity to the protection of personal data and certain protection of fundamental human rights should not be exposed as you have done here. I am deeply disturbed by point 5 and by the Minister's stipulation of how they will process the data, how they will be transmitted, how the request will be transmitted and so on. This is not just about the technical issues of the processing of personal data and the technical characteristics of the information system for the performance of tasks and so on. This is the point. If they're going to process this data - and here we should tell you how you imagine this submarital act, because it can go very far. I'd be right behind if this part of the law changed. Therefore, I say that it would be better to have the amendment written in such a way that this article improves. It's just one of those things, but there's a lot of them. But since the amendment is written only by deleting the article, I cannot support it, because some of these things are above it. When it comes to endangering a person’s life or body and so forth, some things that are sacred do not apply because there is some other value to it. And this is about life in particular, and there are other things that dictate, as I say, that this amendment is not supported. I regret, however, that the Ministry does not tell what the processing of this data and all these things will mean. I tell you, in many cases, it is quite amazing that there is more to these sub-laws, which even goes beyond the law itself, than what the legislator wanted. That's why I'm so afraid of prescribing. I don't know why you didn't write that down if you had such a big marriage. And in the end, this article, which goes through a page and a half, is amazing that you haven't worked out this point yet to say, in this way, that you can process data and so on. I don't know what else the Minister of the Interior has to prescribe.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u119	Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I answer to the honourable Mr Anderlich. When we read this paragraph carefully, we run into the word "technical issues". This is a key term in this Article, which states that "it prescribes a method of transmission of the request, processing of the transmitted data, internal control, as regards the manner or technical issues of the processing of personal data and the technical characteristics of the information system for the performance of the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article." I would like to say by saying, technically, once again, that a meta database is being created, but not its content, what it will look like to exchange whose data, which is mentioned in the third paragraph. So it's not about the content elements that you understand, but it's purely technical. Why there is no more precise description of this form, we consider that this does not fall within the law, for the first time, because of technological independence, and for the second time, because it will be defined by the law. And I want to illustrate what I just said with one more thing. The data retention shall be processed at the Directorate for the Information Society within the European Union or at the new Directorate for the Digital Agenda. But all the substantive issues that aren't here are technical matters, and they're at the Justice Directorate. These matters are extremely clearly separated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u121	A replica? I'll give you my word, Mr. Anderlich, right after that. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor. But you will explain in the debate. Okay, if you think so, I'll give you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u122	I really think so, and that's a classic replica. Mr. Secretary of State misunderstood my statement. If you go to read it, you'll see that you've squeezed one sentence in between technical matters. And it says here very clearly "Minister responsible for Home Affairs, in the previous opinion of the Information Commissioner", which is, by the way, strange why he would be here to be consulted, he will already do so properly, but then you have "a more detailed way of conveying the request, processing the transmitted data", processing, I repeat, a comma of "internal control as to the way or technical issues of processing personal data and technical characteristics" and so on. That's three things, three different things. You don't speak here in this eloquent sentence, processing the transmitted data, it has nothing to do with that technical processing, because you define it further. You're gonna tell me what he's gonna do. You do not say here that this regulation will only regulate the technical characteristics and so on or process the technical issue of personal data. But first you say the processing of the transmitted data is prescribing. This is a substantive matter. Please read and you will find that you misunderstood my guidance. I'm afraid the minister, the minister, whoever, will prescribe how this information will be processed. What they have to do, how they are processed, for what purposes they are processed and so on - this is a very serious provision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u123	Mr. Gantar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I don't have much time. Firstly, it is very important to know around this Article that the information which may be collected is listed in the third paragraph of Article. They can't gather more of these, they can't, they can't. Secondly, that the law provides for traceability and indelible traceability so that someone can look at it and determine whether the measure provided for in this Article has been misused or not. This traceability is indelible and must remain. Thirdly, this fifth paragraph proves that the legal issue of this law is difficult, that it is not as simple as you think it is necessary to know the technical issues and technical aspects of this profession if you want to regulate it legally. That's what this misunderstanding is all about. This article discusses the creation of a target database and in this context it is necessary to attach exactly what the Secretary of State has said and not to objections. It's a matter of a technical nature. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which cannot be regulated in law already because of the neutrality of technology itself. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u125	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My position, my personal opinion, as I have already stated before, is that this 24th article is actually the most controversial in the whole law. I will not now talk about the usefulness of the law itself and the changes, but I would concentrate on this proposed amendment. I'm wondering why he's deleting these amendments. I don't know why the proposaler didn't submit a made substantive amendment, because it would be possible, because obviously this is about the word relationship, when it's also controversial in some way. This is the reasonable probability. The operator's obligation, which is now included in this law, is in some ways our obligation, because it is indeed the directive that requires it. But as I am aware, this directive has once directed, and if it is true that some strange things have occurred in translation as well, when this was not just taken into account, but they say so. The content of the amendment or addition to the fact that the life or body of an individual is at risk or that a person who has limited business capacity or has identified health problems, as well as cases where it is necessary to obtain data in order to find a child who has been reported missing by parents or legal representatives, I think it is completely reasonable, acceptable, justified and does not make sense to lose words. But it is something that gives one doubt or, as we would say, some potential fear in all of us and the other Slovenians and Slovenes, that our experience with the police in the past also excuses this doubt and fear and I personally have this fear. And doubt. How will the Minister regulate only the processing of data, the way in which this provision is used? This is what we will no longer have an impact on. That's why we're actually giving Bianca here to the minister with this provision, a Bianca menu that can then be used, or if you want an expression of abuse, but I'm not saying that it will. But let's say, what if it does. And that's what I would have insured in my marriage that it couldn't have come to that. And the proposer or we, as members of the group, could make an effort to give a guardian or someone more detailed a prescription and determine how this would not happen. However, because we also need to take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service as serious that I will not quote everything, but only this sentence: "according to the established position of the Constitutional Court" is said in a well-established position and not something new, "it is a fundamental constitutional right to limit only by law after the legislator has carried out the weighting of constitutional goods and has determined the necessity of a restrictive measure. This constitutional requirement means that any interference with the right must be regulated by law in a concrete and unequivocal manner. The legal regime must be such as to exclude any possibility of arbitral decision-making by a State authority." That's what it says, I mean, everything. And I don't know why we couldn't include that in the law to stop it. That was my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you. Since I've seen more than one hand, I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u128	I would really like to hear from the Secretary of State what kind of data processing is going on here. What kind of information do you think the Minister of the Interior will prescribe? Don't explain to me that it's technical, that it's internal control, that it's an information system, and so on, because this eloquent sentence speaks of data processing. How will you process them, for what purposes, and what exactly do you mean? If you've written this down so that the minister will prescribe it, you know how it should be or what things this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u129	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Data are certainly processed by those within the meaning of the substantive processing of data. Processing is a number of types: technical and substantive. The content of the processing to which this information is intended is, in particular, within this Article, the police, of course. In this processing of data, however, as discussed in this proposal of the law, it is in fact that you, for the first time, translate it into a technically readable form, because these data are written in the form of IP packages, which are of course not readable, and transfer them to a readable form. This is also one aspect of processing. Otherwise, the explanation is more precise. For example, the legislative and legal service's comment on paragraph 5 was somewhat incomprehensible for us because we also stressed there that it is a technical implementing regulation which is clear that it must not originally create new rights and obligations. And then we explain, for example, the rules for the processing of personal data, which will be prescribed by the Minister's Rules of Procedure, with regard to the obligations of those persons, will only summarise the minimum set of data from the laws, which are defined in the third paragraph. So it's not about substantive processing, it's about mediating this data processing. Minimum circle of officials, for example, which may be familiar with the data obtained, traceability of the transmission of personal data. That means processing. Minimum data transmission within the police force and so on. Therefore, this comment was taken into account as regards the obligation to issue the regulation itself. We fixed that by correcting the word "may".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Crane, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This 24th Article of this Law is, in my opinion, extremely dangerous, particularly dangerous to politics. I am convinced that, as such, it is unnecessary, since today, without this article, an operator may provide the police with the information necessary to determine the last location defined by this Article, of course, under a protocol that has escaped, under certain rules, that the prosecution is also involved in this process of obtaining such data. And don't say it's impossible today and it's not possible and so on. In my opinion, the prosecution must also be involved in cases where there is a reasonable likelihood that life is directly at risk, for the first time, to find a person who is deprived of his or her business ability, that is, secondly, thirdly, in the event that a child is found who is reported missing by parents and legal representatives. So we have three cases. The D.A. has an orderly duty, has on-call prosecutors, and there can be no reason to simplify an escaped rule with this article, an escaped protocol. I would understand this article if, at the moment, the police could not obtain this information under any circumstances. But that's not true. The police can always get a decision from the D.A., some kind of permission to access this information. It is true, however, that there is a need to arrange communication or to call the D.A. or whatever, I do not know what these protocols are, but that they run through the D.A.'s office. Once again, direct contact, police-operator, is dangerous. It is particularly dangerous because of the abuse of the three previous cases, when these data on the last location can be made available to almost anyone under the pretext of the previous three cases. I wouldn't want that to happen. And by the way, it's interesting in the light of this abuse, etc., that some journalists knew on Thursday what was going to happen yesterday on the subject of Patria. Very interesting! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u133	Mr State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zerjav! This Article 24 is essentially an upgrade or summary of a personal data law that already provides a legal basis for the storage of such personal data. Otherwise, with some shortcomings in my opinion, you have found that it is now possible to access this data. Better to say, this data already exists, but the operators didn't give it. Operators were the ones who demanded a more precise dictatorship so that these data could be communicated immediately. And this isn't about crimes, you know. That's an essential difference. Then the prosecution could be involved by all procedures. This is an intervention in exceptional circumstances, which you yourself have summarized. We therefore assess that this approach is correct and, above all, because we have encountered a very positive response in all the public hearings that we have conducted recently and in discussions with operators. At the same time, we estimate that the fuses are strong enough. It is clear that the guards must be, but we estimate that they are stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u135	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u136	First of all, I would really like to thank all the three interlocutors who have now appeared on the side of the various parliamentary groups. I am glad that the warnings have come to an understanding, and I must say that I agree with all three of them. My colleague has read perfectly what the decisions of the Constitutional Court are when it comes to addressing these issues, and this is exactly what I have said myself in a simpler way already in the introduction as a starting point. I also agree with my colleague Anderlich, who pointed out the extraordinary stretch of the formulation that you wrote in the law. As an interesting thing to mention, he wrote that it covers three, and I list four different things. It is said that we can see here how far-reaching it is to interpret these terms. Indeed, they are explicitly listed as to what individual data should cover in Article 3. That's definitely true. But here we are talking about the next steps. First, on the whole protocol covered by this, even on the acquisition framework, and then on the processing process, which is not only technical, as has now been clarified sufficiently, but also on a number of substantive matters. For this reason, I also very much agree with my colleague Žerjav, who stressed that he is already making it possible, in urgent cases, to obtain this data through the proper procedure and cooperation of the relevant institutions. Once again, the way that you have put into law now, with that amendment to Article 24, which was adopted on the Committee, is said, as is now the case in the text of the law, is not appropriate, nor is it essentially a solution to anything. Here, from what the Secretary of State has said, it is very clear that they have not yet prepared a sub-law. It was also pointless when someone suggested, I suppose, well-intentionedly, why you did not prepare it Yes, we could rely on the arrangements that were at the time when we were in the government, but, people of God, at that time, let's say the transfer of the whole area from one ministry to another, changed some principles and whatever we could prepare, would be rejected, either from political prestige or would actually not fit the current regime. [[...]] This is one specific issue that each government has to settle in such a way that the matter actually stands. But it must also stand in the right constitutional way. This is a very sensitive matter. I don't know how to give a clear warning. See, in similar decisions in the past, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that whenever it comes to obtaining, processing data, anything relating to the regulation or restriction of the field of human rights, and in fact this article also touches it in some way, it means, in some way, limiting the right to privacy, we must be aware of that. Article 15 of the Constitution, however, expressly states that it is not permissible to restrict the rights enshrined in the chapter on human rights in the Constitution, nor with different excuses, if the Constitution itself makes it possible or otherwise, if this is not regulated in laws that must be written in an extremely clear and specific manner. And I don't know why he won't listen to it. The rush here on the left doesn't help anything, it'll go back to the time to prepare a submarital act, then there can be a constitutional assessment, and the situation will be exactly what it is now. Just as now, it will be possible to obtain this data, of course under an appropriate protocol, with the cooperation of all relevant services. That shortcut won't be here yet. Only once this has been written down very clearly and definitively in the law and this law will it be definitively enforced in a legally indisputable manner. However, it is not much longer than to prepare a sub-legislative act and then adopt it in a coherent manner and also publish it in accordance with the protocols governing it at government level. It is only a dilemma whether constitutional order and the protection of human rights are respected, in particular the standards for the protection of human rights already established by the Constitutional Court, or whether this is not respected. And that this would be respected, that this would even allow time and opportunity to be gained, is the purpose of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u137	Anyone else want to discuss Article 24 and the amendment? Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I think the police have a huge chance of tracking, listening and tracking today. What is stated in this Article is inconsistent, in particular when you instruct the Minister responsible for internal affairs to prescribe, in the preliminary opinion of the information officer, the requirements obtained when he receives this request on the table, the appropriate way to process the data and obtain the data. Is the Minister going to deal with each case on a case-by-case basis? I also think that the sanctions imposed by the police on unlawful interference with human rights, in the law in force so far, allowing, under the circumstances of wiretapping, tracing, etc., the abuse of these rights has never been sanctioned. The police can do whatever they want and we're becoming a small police state. Of course, it is pleasing to read that you deal with this in some way with the unresolved problem of domestic violence. But how many cases have there been when the police did not effectively intervene when they were supposed to? In fact, she got a timely application. Today you're referring to the care of the family, the child, etc. I can agree with this, only I fear if it will be as well as it is written, but I am not in favour of a complete deletion, because there are many well written in this article that there will be even greater abuses, of course under some excuse. You are also warned by the public information authority that you have misused existing powers and that nothing happens. Neither does the D.A.'s office. Of course, crows won't turn their eyes off, that's a saying. I would like us to become European comparable in this area and in some imaginary way the police do not obtain additional powers, because we see this in the Slovenian National Party as a way that will only serve as an excuse when the police need an excuse. More conceptually, we should write this article more wisely. And if you already define competences, you should define them in such a way that they are essentially meaningful and feasible. After what you have written down, this will practically never be possible or there will be a bunch of Commissioners who will be authorized by the Minister to do so. That means things lose their meaning. Of course, I would ask you when we were already concerned with public order and peace, in fact, why the police do not actually carry out what they used to do. I never and never see a cop doing field work. In good weather, we see them stopping cars, rarely in bad weather, or in traffic jams. I don't see them at night either to walk and walk to so-called risk areas. I know it's not a topic, but I'd like to get on the bench sometimes some kind of law that they'll have if they've already forgotten at the police that they have these powers, additionally oblige the police to carry out what they're called to do. I see it as some kind of new repression. And, of course, if there is no sanctioned violation by the police, I see it as a possible new abuse. And believe me, the Commissioner for Public Information will still have a lot of work to do, especially with the police, because you will make use of what you are proposing today, and I believe that you will also accept it. In short, another repressive action more. I hope you can help yourself with that. You eavesdrop on Members, you eavesdrop on government officials, you're doing even illegal interventions, as we've seen in state companies and elsewhere. And I believe you're going to get through this, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u139	I note that no one wants to discuss Article 24 or the amendment anymore, so I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Before moving to the 16th item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that at the 12th meeting of the National Assembly there will be a 16th item, this is the proposal for a bill amending the Toll Law for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3,500 kilograms, reduced procedure, point 17, of the Amendment and Supplement Law on Public Roads, reduced procedure, point 18, of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of air navigation services, reduced procedure, Mr Mag. Mr Zoran Kus, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space, under the authority of the Government. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE TRAINING LAW FOR VEHICLES WHICH ARE MOST AVIDED TO A LOT OF OVER 3,500 KilogramS, SHORT-TERM PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Magg has the word. Cous. Here you go. Mr. Mag. Cus, wait, please. Mr. Tanko, can I help you? Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u140	Mr Vice-President, I ask whether Mr State Secretary from the Ministry of the Environment has the power of representation from the Government. At this point in the agenda, we would expect to see this because it is a law in the field of transport of the State Secretary or a minister from the Transport Ministry. And it is somewhat unusual that changes to the law relating to the transport sector are commented by the State secretaries of other departments, which already have difficulties with commenting and corresponding explanations of those topics which are in their work area. I propose that the meeting be suspended and that you provide a representative of the Government, the Minister or State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, be said to be able to carry out this debate in a competent manner. It is an important topic, it is an extension of the ABC system, it is a maintenance of technology in this transport system that the European Union does not allow, and it is also about certain solutions that are probably linked to the decisions of the Government that enable customeristic regulation in this area. I suggest you stop the meeting and ensure that the relevant interlocutors are on the government side, because it is unfair to deal with things in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, I have before me a document addressed to the President of the National Assembly, whose content I read a little earlier, with the signing of mags. Mr Barbara Peternelj, Deputy Secretary-General of the Government, who is also a document and a mandate for Mr Mag. Kusa. I can't interrupt this meeting because I have the government's authority spelled out. You can see the document. Mr. Tanko, I've spoken my mind. I will not change that opinion because I have the power of government to participate. Please allow us to continue the meeting. I can't influence that, you know that. It would be in vain of any kind of bickering. I have authority, you can see it, it's at my place, I've read it. Please, Mag. Kusa, if he does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! First, an explanation of the absence of the Minister and State Secretary from the Ministry of Transport. The Minister of Transport Dr. Vlačič is in a delegation with the President of the Government. Since it was initially planned that this agenda item would be much later on the agenda, as it is now, the minister has unfortunately not returned. He planned to be able to attend a meeting from 3 p.m. on or at 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. But he's not here. In view of this agreement, the Secretary of State will travel to Brussels in due time. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the Act amending the Toll Code for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms. Although the law has one change, one article alone, it is relatively short, but I agree that it is an important law. In accordance with Article 45 of the Toll Code for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms, the adjustment of the toll charging rates should be applied no later than 1 January 2010. That date is in accordance with the so-called 'Eurovinjet Directive', which has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the law in question. According to the current law, the adjustment of the toll in relation to the Euro Emissions Class of the vehicle may only be used in the free movement of road tolls with an active OBD device, while in other tolling modes the toll height determined by the decision fixing the toll height for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms is applied. In view of the fact that free movement of tolls has not yet been established in the Republic of Slovenia, the current provision of Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Act in question prevents the introduction of toll adjustments in relation to the Euro Emissions Class of the vehicle, and it is therefore necessary to amend that provision in order to allow for the adjustment of the toll height in relation to the Euro Emission Class of the tolling vehicle with the already established electronic media of the toll operator, such as Dars card, Dars Transporter card, ABC electronic card. The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt the proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Janko Webr, to present the report of the Committee. Before that, Mr Tanko has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. What the Government has done in this particular case is not in accordance with the third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since in this case the Director of the Film Fund could also come to interpret this subject under this provision, if interpreted. However, it is electronic communications, and if the Government has already appointed a deputy representative, then I would expect someone from the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to be included in the field of electronic communication. The area of electronic communication is not placed in the environment and space, but in the Ministry of Higher Education with Minister Golobic. All of these discussions, which took place at this point, will deal with only how and why the government has even extended the ABC system instead of coming at 1. 1. 2010 to modern technology, like the satellite system and so on. If we want to hold a debate, a good debate on this, then here we need an interlocutor of the SSR, this is the representative of the Ministry of Transport, the Minister, the Secretary of State, or someone who controls electronic communications. This certainly does not belong in the field of environment and space. Otherwise, I propose that you submit or that the Government also appoint a Ministry of Culture to explain this subject. I don't think that's how this is going to work, so I've proposed a suspension, and I also suggest you stop the meeting and get us a suitable interlocutor. We also have directors of Directorates at the Ministry of Transport dealing with this, and these things could be explained by these people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u146	Mr President, this cannot be done in a quality manner. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. That's how I'm gonna answer it. None of us are a specialist in all the things we're talking about. That's the first one. Secondly, I will follow the Rules of Procedure, Article 235(3), which states: "At a meeting of the National Assembly, the Government may be represented by the Minister or Chairman of the Government Service appointed by the Government. [[...]] In the event of absence or detention, he may replace the Minister of State or the Head of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry and his Deputy Head of Government. We have the power of government. Those who represent the government today have the power of the government to act in the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Weber, if you continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on behalf of the Transport Committee. At its 6th meeting, held on 27 November, the Transport Committee carried out a review of a proposal for a toll law amending the toll law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3500 kg. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State, Mr Jakomin, presented the reasons for amending the bill. He stressed that the law in force regulates tolls and tolls of vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3500 kg and provides that the toll is to be paid for those vehicles in relation to the toll distance transported on the toll road. In view of the application of the Eurovignette Regulation as of 1 January 2010, it was necessary to supplement the law in view of the fact that no free movement tolling has yet been established in the Republic of Slovenia so as to allow for the adjustment of the toll in relation to the Euro Emissions Class of the vehicle when tolling with the ABC electronic table and the already established electronic payment media of the toll operator. When considering the content of the law, a large number of members of the Committee discussed the listing of the ABC electronic card as the only electronic toll collection medium in relation to the Euro-emission class to be valid for vehicles by 2012. They considered that the extension of the use of the ABC electronic card violated a provision of the Interoperability Directive which provided for an open approach to other tenderers. They therefore proposed that an amendment should be drawn up for the second reading of the draft law, which excludes the specific indication of the ABC card as the electronic media of the toll road operator. In its replies, the proposed law ensured that the amendment of the law would allow for the adjustment of toll rates in the payment of the toll from 1 January 2010, while the upgrading and use of the ABC electronic card was only a transitional solution to the adoption of a new tolling law, which would ensure free movement of tolls in relation to the kilometres transported and would also take account of the Euro-emission class of the vehicle and the operation at the appropriate frequency. The Committee also adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the Coalition's Members, but did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group. Later, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u150	Dear colleagues and friends, a nice greeting to you all! Special greetings to visitors on the balcony! These procedural complications at the beginning of the important examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Toll Code for vehicles whose maximum permissible weight exceeds 3,500 kilograms mean that we do not support this in the SDS Group. That is why we wanted qualified people to cover this area professionally. Therefore, allow me, the distinguished representatives who come on behalf of the Government, we have no reservations to your respect, but we have doubts that you are a resilient ministry whose most suitable representative today would certainly be Dr. Patrick Vlačič, who does not feel that it is necessary and important to participate at this important hearing. The contents of the amendment itself address an area for which the Government is actually proposing an amendment that is not in line with the 2004 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, this is Directive 52 of 29 April 2004. We have already made it clear on the Committee on Transport that this is not a dilemma where it can be precisely ascertained from the dictates of the content of the law that the Government has come into a time period where it is attempting to upgrade the current ABC system without a call for tender, even though the directive of the European Parliament opposes it. We will have something special again in Slovenia, because it is obvious that we are always special in all important things, especially when it comes to public procurement and invitations. In violation of the content of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council, we have therefore proposed to delete Article 1 and to put the substance of the law in its original state, thereby allowing the Government to come up with the appropriate solution required by the applicable standards applicable to all members of the European Community. At the same time, it is important and also necessary to draw attention to the final provision, which provides that the law shall enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The mere fact of this content tells us that there are some violations, since normal dates after publication of the contents in the Official Journal are known to enter into force on the 14th or 15th day following publication. This is also one of the extremes that the proposer has served and we are also opposed to such a way. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have proposed an amendment, also on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which did not agree with the original content, but we expect that we will be through discussion, despite the fact that there are no qualified people among us from the Ministry of Transport, only to conclude that the proposed content is not good, because the standards that other members of the European Community must follow are not respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. The main reason for the adoption of the law is the adjustment of the toll in relation to the Euro-emission class of the toll vehicle with the existing electronic payment media. In fact, it is a matter of establishing an appropriate legal basis for adjusting the height according to the Euro Emissions Class of the vehicle. This will allow the adjustment of toll rates with Darsa electronic payment media, and these are further defined in the toll price for the use of toll roads. This is a change which does not affect the basic principles of the law governing toll and tolling of vehicles whose maximum permissible weight exceeds three thousand five hundred kilograms. This provides that the toll shall be paid for those vehicles in relation to the toll carried along the toll road. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the reception of the novel is necessary, since tolls in the free movement must be provided by 1 January 2010. Slovenia must also ensure the conditions and standards imposed by the European Union Directives on free movement of tolls for freight vehicles by 2012 and for passenger vehicles by 2014. This is therefore a transitional solution, as the Government has already adopted an action plan for the introduction of electronic tolling of the system in free circulation, which redefines the timing of the introduction of the electronic toll system in free traffic. It will also draw up a new tolling law and ensure the entry into force of tolling on electronic media, which will fully regulate this area. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1. In doing so, I should like to point out that the amendment of this law is closely linked to the contents of the amendment to the Law on Public Roads, which we will also support in the Group of Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. Nicely greeted. Well, hello to everyone who's following us. Despite the fact that tolling is a very complex system that can only be modified gradually, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that the Government is late in procedures. The government brings all laws to Parliament too late and practically for all laws therefore requires reduced procedures, which is not in line with the business reasons for the reduced procedure. It also states in this law that it is necessary to adopt an amendment in order to allow for the adjustment of the toll height in relation to the Euro-emission class of the toll vehicle with the ABC electronic plate and other established electronic payment media of the toll-road operator from 1. 1. 2010 The law proposes the establishment of an appropriate legal basis and allows the adjustment of the toll rates with the ABC electronic table and Dars electronic payment media, since we have not yet introduced an OBU device, although the introduction was envisaged until 31. 12. 2008 In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we ask why a comprehensive new solution and introduction of free movement tolls are not being prepared as a new way of tolling, thus avoiding unnecessary costs for upgrading and using the ABC electronic card, which is only a transitional solution. It is the duty of the State to ensure the conditions and standards imposed by the European Union Directives on free movement of tolls for freight vehicles by 2012 and for passenger vehicles by 2014. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the Government should draw up such an action plan and legislation in order to introduce a new system as soon as possible in this mandate and not postpone the introduction to a new mandate. In doing so, by extending the use of the ABC electronic card, our country also violates the provisions of the Interoperability Directive, which also provides for an open approach to other providers. If we support the law, we will decide when we get an explanation of why this transitional period is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the Desus Group on amendments to the Toll Code for vehicles weighing more than 3,500 kilograms. The European Union Directive directs us to the Tolls Act for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3,500 kilograms and provides for the adjustment of toll charging rates according to the vehicle's Euro-Emission Class. This adjustment is designed to prevent environmental damage and congestion, reduce road toll damage, optimise the use of toll roads or adjust road safety to road toll levels. Given that the current Slovenian legislation in this area does not include a legal basis for establishing an adjustment of the toll on the basis of the Euro-emission class of the vehicle, the applicant has acceded to the amendment of the two laws, namely, the amendment of which we are considering at this point, and the Law on Public Roads. As a representative of the DeSUS Group, I would like to point out that we will support the Members of the two proposals as we assess that the proposed regime is in line with the guidelines set out in the European Directive. We also assess that the proposed adjustment is proportionate to the objective pursued and does not constitute the creation of additional revenues from tolls. These are crucial reasons for supporting the complementary proposal of this basic law by Members of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! The objective pursued by the Government by the Proposal for a Law amending the Toll Code for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms is certainly a necessary objective. The established appropriate legal basis for the acquisition of tolls in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle, I also believe that the actual Kyoto obligation is an environmental and environmental obligation. But here's the basic question why we shouldn't have done it before. There is an ABC system that we have successfully used so far, we have abandoned it by introducing vignettes, and I see no reason why the interlocutors have cited before me that we should completely resolve it in another order. We will reduce the species that are now visible on the highways, reduce the damage caused by this and perhaps some accident. I suppose, however, that we would be significantly more systematic in resolving this issue in the context of what is written here if we also took into account the shift of heavy transit cargo from road to rail. This could also be done in the context of what we are dealing with today, because European patterns are known, especially Austrian ones, which have been well received in this area. We might also protect public road infrastructure in order to increase the flow of traffic and also reduce actual accidents, including mortality. I don't know why the proposaler didn't follow this objective either, because now that we're opening this area, we have the possibility to prescribe one article which could also be an integral part of this law, so that, above all, the environmentally-controversial cargo, the heavier transit cargo and the most polluting goods can also be released from harmful substances into the air by way of obsolete transport, are simply diverted to railways. This is what I hope we will experience in a short time, because the promise is already so old that we would expect not only from this government, but also from any earlier, to do so in the protection of national interests, but also in the protection of such a large blood tax paid by the Slovenian population on national and motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u160	Your Honor! This is an adjustment law, a harmonisation law, whatever you wish, and a very environmentally friendly law, given that only one article is practically in this law, the presence of the Secretary of State for the Environment at this meeting is very happy, and the Copenhagen conference is not over, so there are some big instances at the expense of the Government or the secretaries, I do not think that we need to be addressed and not in place. The fact is that it is high time to introduce a free-flow tolling method also for trucks, i.e. vehicles over 3500 tonnes, and thus allow to collect tolls at different times. We can determine a flexible toll load if carriers use more favourable terms for them or less favourable for others. When it comes to peaks, we could introduce higher tolls and then unload traffic on highways, stimulate night driving and other options when there are not so many passenger traffic. It is therefore necessary to regulate the legal basis, and we absolutely welcome this in the LDS, when it comes to the fact that, sooner or later, the euro rules, when it comes to pollution and similar things, should be taken more rigorously. It is not true that this way is discriminatory for foreigners. Foreigners who drive across Slovenia, in particular, because they are usually returnees if they go from east to west and vice versa, they can also acquire ABC and will certainly be stimulated, rewarded and have certain advantages. That is why I do not see any serious evidence in this part at the expense of ABC. That is why we have also proposed an amendment in the coalition, and I believe that it will be supported and open the way for other solutions that will be in line with the Action Plan. As it is said, this has already been adopted and will be definitively selected in the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that we hunt these deadlines, which are prescribed in the framework of the European Union's Eurovignette Regulation, in the community of those countries that we belong to. 1.1.2010 is here, and I think that by this law we contribute both to the flow of motorways and, above all, to reduce emissions on roads and in the air, so that these trucks do not cause them so much or as little as possible, because it will also be stimulated that environmentally friendly vehicles can otherwise be tolled.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The toll law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms constitutes the legal basis for the collection of the toll. The existing Toll Law for Trucks provides for the introduction of toll charging by the Euro-Emission Class as from 1 January 2010. This law establishes new conditions for the possibility of adjusting to the toll rates according to the Euromission class, since the electronic toll system is not yet in place in Slovenia. Here, too, we are asked why this toll system is not already in place, as it could certainly have led to this point in the previous term, so that we now have an electronic system. This is how we face the system of vignettes and also the then thinking about satellite tolling, which was far from 1 January 2010. It is therefore essential to ensure compliance with the Eurovignette Directive during this period, which is possible through the upgrading of the existing ABC toll system. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will support the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which deletes the text of 'ABC electronic table and others', because we believe that its explicit reference in the text of the law is unnecessary. However, we will not support the SDS amendment, which refers to the need for a new electronic toll system from 1. 1. 2007 which is true, and we are also wondering why this has not been settled since then. The fact is that this Directive applies only to the new toll system. However, since we already have an existing toll system, this upgrade is possible, so we will not support this amendment. This will also allow in fact the implementation of the European rules within the deadlines foreseen, and I think this is also extremely important when we adopt this law at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Master, then in the debate I will give you my word. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 May. 12. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? I've got two registered. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps many do not know that it is really a matter of substantive change to just one article. The proposal states that Article 14 of the current law, which provides that the adjustment of the toll in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle may only be applied in the free movement of road tolls with an active OBD device. This is a specificity, it is a special feature that we are trying to preserve in Slovenia in every way and at every cost. It is true that the directive required these things to be regulated by 1. 1. 2007 and it is also true that since 1. 1. 2010 needs to be done. To resort to a situation, to upgrade a system that does not work on the frequency where this regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council gives a tax ruling, but is a special feature that we want to implement in Slovenia in every way. We have therefore proposed an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to delete this first article. We originally came from the very direction of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which clearly stated that in a law that is not intended only for Slovenia, but that if we have an open market for the use of road infrastructure, this means that all users of Slovenian roads must be aware of this, who must understand this specificity that we are trying to implement in every way with the proposal to amend this law. We also made clear why we are proposing deleting this Article because it is a violation of the directive because it is a matter of non-compliance with a directive that clearly states that devices must operate on a well-known frequency system. The government or the proposer ignores this and tries to upgrade the existing ABC system. Even so, it was so obvious in the original version that, once again, it was not difficult to conclude that it was a maintenance of the outdated ABC system. Slovenia also probably deserves, in some technological development, to have our domestic experts, young people, researchers, who have come up with the right solutions, but do not allow them to now exercise their knowledge, which they would also implement in practice. Solutions are known to allow the tolling method to be consistent with the content of the European Council. And obviously we don't want to really give the opportunity and opportunity to our home knowledge, which has developed a system that operates on the frequencies prescribed by the Directive of the European Parliament. Let us flee, give no opportunity, and give no opportunity to local knowledge to enforce what they have developed. This isn't a new thing. This is a tested thing that has been tried in practice and that says it works in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament. I am sorry, and in our Group of Members, however, we have felt that it is time for some technological progress to be made in the use of some modern technologies that stem from the knowledge of our own people. It is no wonder that then it happens to us that this local knowledge, which departs from Slovenia, then sells back for much more money than should be deducted here if we take into account this local knowledge. The deletion of the content of this Article would certainly go in the direction of taking into account what we are justifying in the amendment proposal to delete and moving on to such a toll system as will ensure that all the content of the Directive of the European Parliament is taken into account. And there's something else to confess here. It is that the proposer avoids what we often say is a possibility of a public invitation to tender. It is said that everyone has the option, and everyone who has this technology worked out, which they can put into use, somehow discourages them. This is wrong and it is not fair, it is not in accordance with the criteria and principles that everyone has the opportunity and the opportunity to exercise their knowledge, so also by changing these contents we practically put a stop sign where they do not get the permission that they can now, by applying these changes. Believe me, many young researchers, many people who find themselves very well in this area, would be grateful that at least once someone has listened to their solutions, and thus this way of change is practically limited to the Government or the Ministry not taking into account the other, only those who are already in this system, should remain in this system to complete the upgrade, thereby avoiding a call for proposals. Let's avoid anyone else getting this job. Let those who are already here at home have one who has developed a very modern ABC device for the time being, but over the years, through technological progress and development, through the acquisition and enforcement of the knowledge of our local experts, however, has exceeded some time frame. It would be right to support this amendment and then force the Government to adopt the relevant content of the law, which will be as required by Directive 52 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of April 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u165	Mr. Mag. Cous.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. The Government rejects the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1 so that this article is deleted, on the grounds that it is based on a misinterpretation of Article 2 of the directive on the interoperability of Community toll systems. In a specific case, it is not about establishing a new toll system, but only about adjusting, only for the adjustment made by the directive in question, the adjustment of the existing toll system in a way that will allow for the calculation of the toll in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle. At the same time, there is also an answer to Mr Ribič why the Government does not immediately propose the introduction of a new system. As has already been said in some of the recitals, the Government has adopted a recent action plan proposing a new tolling system, or through this action plan, a new tolling system is proposed, which is in line with the provisions of the Eurovinjet Directive, to prepare this for freight vehicles by the beginning of 2012 and by 2014 for passenger vehicles. And even then, what is the answer to Mr Marinič will, of course, be a call for a call when the new system is available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment proposing the deletion of this Article is perfectly logical. If you read, in fact, you get by deleting this article, by what you want to achieve with this upgrade, exactly the same thing. I'd like to ask the government representative to explain to me the difference between the upgraded ABC system and the OBU device. What's the functional difference? What will be the difference between what is already in the existing law and what will be upgraded? What's the difference in functionality? And when the government representative said that the government had adopted a new action plan, we are also interested in why the government had stepped down from the tender that had been prepared and prepared by the international public institution. He was ready for the handover of both ministers. According to my behaviour, the new minister said he would take two months to review the invitation to tender and would put it forward in the procedure so that he could catch the deadline for electronic tolling in free traffic. The answer is simple. With the introduction of vinjets, the existing ABC system, which operated at a non-standard frequency of 2.45 giga Hertz, which the new directive does not know as standard, was abolished. We also shut down the ABC system simply because we have committed ourselves to introducing free movement tolls first for freight vehicles, in accordance with the directive on European interoperability of toll systems. Then part of the Automobiles in the Chamber of Commerce demanded that they also be allowed to pass through toll stations and as a solution proposed by the old ABC tables. And on a question on the Transport Committee, we know the extent to which we are talking about how the motorists grabbed these ABC plates. We have 28,000 cargo vehicles registered according to data, accurate data is still promised by the Secretary of State and 2,500 are said to have been sold. That's 10%. Now, however, we are building on an existing system, an outdated, non-standard and possibly existing provider to the level that the new system will have with the requirements of European interoperability. It is about whether we would have so much power and immediately go into the tender and establish a modern, interoperable European system for the free movement of goods vehicles, as required by the Interoperability Directive, but of course we have another option. And this option, Your Honor, you have chosen. You have chosen the possibility that the existing single bidder will slowly, step by step, without an international call, I am sure, slowly upgrade the system and adjust it to the level required by the directive. One of these characteristics is this separate toll charge for different emission classes. In fact, this is also a major novelty in free movement to distinguish between emission classes. When the old ABC table without invitations is refined with this option, you call it upgrade, then it will only be a step towards saying look, but now we have such a good ABC table that we can add to it to the different time areas of the day, and then we will say, and now let's add, we can also adjust this to define, I don't know, to determine the situation and we have. What? With the upgrade we get an active "on boart units" unit. Look, we're actually talking about this. The fact that it will come from an outdated system through the upgrade systems you are now legislating in order to achieve what the directive requires. We're only going to miss something: an international public invitation to tender. For me, this is, excuse me, favouring an existing provider unless today the representative of the Government immediately assures me that an international invitation to tender for the adaptation of the ABC system will be issued here tomorrow. If it is in fact up to who or whether to go to the invitation to tender, the Secretary of State on the Committee on Transport has already made it clear that this would probably be necessary. You know, these adjustments of ours, don't you think, we're closing the competition, and I've already warned you about that on the Transport Committee. We're already alerting you to that. They also read directives in the European Commission. I am convinced that this violates this directive on the interoperability of toll systems. This is the key moment that, if we delete it of course, it doesn't matter. Of course, in the original law itself it was, in fact, you wrote very precisely, you have just legalized the ABC electronic table and other electronic media, you actually wrote very honestly that in Slovenia there is also an ABC table in addition to other electronic media. Then it only occurred that you withdrew editorially, but the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, said that we had nothing but ABC anyway. But if we look at this additional argument now that we have 2,500 of these electronic plates sold at this point, it probably wasn't a very big success for the motorists to be happy to buy it and decide on it. Sure, why? Because the traffic flow has also been heavily relaxed due to the introduction of vignettes. Since we know where the problems were, there were problems in the Trojans, in Brezovica, if the toll stations were to be torn down, the traffic flow would go smoothly and no ABC plates would be needed. However, we would need this call, which was actually prepared and the former Minister of Transport made the right move when he said at the time of the sale that the invitation was here, the new minister should look at it and assess it, change it if he thinks that the previous term was wrong and that the invitation to tender would go forward. It would be an international invitation to tender, maybe a legal deadline would be a violation for I don't know, half a year, but it would come here with an amendment to extend for six months, but we would have a toll system in free traffic with international competition, with an international choice, and today we would have a system that is in line with European directives. Thus, it now shows that we will upgrade the existing system - by the way, I would very much ask for an assessment of the costs, probably all calculated, for what it will cost, this upgrade, which is once again temporary by 2012 or now under this action plan, and then a call for European electronic toll. Yeah, why? Why a transitional period and a new invitation to tender, why not immediately? Why don't you go to the invitation and get it over with? We wouldn't need any transitions, no ABC plates, especially if we see that this was obviously a really big success - because 10% of the car carriers really got them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u169	Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u170	The SDS's amendment could be renamed a slogan that could be roughly: opponents or fighters against the ABC system, which has been effective and successful, are back on the march. That's all you talked about, that's all that bothers you. I don't understand, I really don't understand how the second day we're dealing with retrograde amendments, so something back, something worse, instead of going on the road, like all other countries do when every smart master goes on, even with small steps. And this law is definitely a contribution to the flow of Slovenian roads and trucks are most likely to interfere with the toll stations, even if there are also vignettes - yes, Mr. Pojbič, you already know how it is! You shut down a good operating ABC system because you wanted to disable someone. Iosel and others are enabled and we can look at yesterday when we find: after three years of international public tender, the most transparent tender in the history of this Slovenia - we have two defendants in court. That's because of what you're talking about. I simply cannot support your amendment because it is actually against the fact that the matter would be upgraded to improve, to have cleaner air, to stimulate those carriers who will have more friendly vehicles, as they do everywhere, to adapt to the collection of tolls so that carriers can decide whether to go in a better time or a worse time, to unload the spikes so that not all of them will be burdened at 7 a.m. when the biggest crowd is not elsewhere in Ljubljana. So, how do you understand this amendment - I really don't know what was wrong with the ABC system when you shut it down. I had an ABC system, I was driving without stopping and very fast and no problem. Yeah, it was in the back, what you're saying is that you wanted to prefavorate someone else at the expense of that. But I don't care. All I care about is that we have come up with the right solution, which is better - proven! Anyone can explain to me what's worse: whether it's not collecting tolls in the open, or whether it's better that trucks are more environmentally friendly on the roads and so on. Is that better? If that's better, I'm voting for your amendment right now. But your amendment takes you there. The second issue is related to the Action Plan and to these calls. The Action Plan was adopted in 2004. It was cancelled and promises to be made in 2005, 2006, 2007, I don't know when - until 2009 we didn't get it. Now we have it, now we have a real basis to continue this work and to go from those three, four, five steps back in the future in a better direction, that's all it is. And then, the action plan is now, but you don't know it, because otherwise you would have done it - and if you hadn't been ahead of you, you probably would have done it - maybe some Lobina, or maybe I don't know which Petri Verbichi, or the others, or Mr Šteba and so on and we would have done it. But time has run out of you. But you took a few steps back and let us move on. I firmly believe that with an international invitation to tender or using domestic knowledge - yes, I would like to see, as with the strong hundreds of millions that we have sent to the north without seriously counting on domestic knowledge and domestic production - but this is another discussion. That's why I'm gonna be, I'm not embarrassed, even if I stayed ABC inside, because it's really a transitional and one-off thing. It would be wrong to blind ourselves, that if we now upgrade or go to a new invitation to tender, that we would sooner get through a new contractor's call and a completely different system and that this would start to work in January, February - or, how did you say that for a few months? It can't be! You know that. But if you want to spend flowers here - you can, but I firmly believe that this is now the end of the day also a concrete gesture. Tomorrow or tomorrow the conference will end and we will say that we will adopt a law this week that will be more friendly when touring and will contribute to environmental protection, and a tax on motor vehicles, and some other things. That's how it's done. Declarations, resolutions and all other things don't mean much, and they don't mean much, and they don't mean much, and they don't mean a promise of how nice it's gonna be and how it's gonna be and how it's gonna be when it's different. No, no, no. The concrete moves are through this law and I firmly believe, even if it is necessary to defend that what has worked here has worked successfully for as long as we do not get what we believe or not, we want - at least I - for at least 10 years now, since we have been saying this and there have been real opportunities for it to be done experimentally. For reasons unknown to me, 2004 has somehow been blocked from where, what, how - I don't know, but of course, lost years can't be recovered; but at this point, something can be done to move on faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u171	Mr. Verlich, please. You've got half a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u172	Yeah, just for a little while. I am grateful to the President that he said that we will improve the environment with ABC, and he also responded, at least I think, very well to this - without an international invitation to tender. Thank you. Now I see how this practice is going.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u174	It doesn't matter because there are no other applications. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u175	No, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u176	But it's a replica because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u177	If you are accurate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u179	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u180	It's a replica, it's a replica, because you have to correct the misstatement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u181	I understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u182	I think so. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u184	I think it was an abuse, not a misstatement, because he understood very well that I didn't talk about it at all. I have not talked about the fact that there will be no international invitation to tender. I was talking about how ultimately it's important how we get a better system. This is in my interest and, of course, clearly - without being subject to all the rules in force in this country, we must not do anything anyway. Who, though, hopes to do something contrary to laws, unconstitutional, untransparent, and so forth? But these organs are working - you saw that they were working yesterday. You have proof. And what happens now, with an international invitation to tender. I wouldn't stop here, let's talk about what too about ABC, I support it to upgrade it and I'm sorry that you canceled it then, because before the new system was introduced no, you were also Secretary of State, Mr Verlic, and you didn't give an invitation to tender for this system, and you didn't make an action plan yet, and you promised. [[...]] [[...]] Yeah, but these are specific things when we talk about this. And it certainly is, I say, that this law can contribute to improving the environment in Slovenia, because it makes it very clear how these things should work stimulately on carriers. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u185	Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out here that it is foolish to say that the ABC system was good for passenger cars. It's a first-class demagogy for me. Today, after this price class, when it can be accessed by everyone, including the lower middle layer, is appropriate. And I gave myself the initiative to price it with 1. 1. do not increase because there is no longer a reason for the vines to be significantly irritated by the annual purchase. Europe has also warned us that we are European discriminatory, and later we have found or ourselves have found that there was no reason to make such a noise about it. They have even blocked the means to complete the construction of highway links. A few million euros have been blocked in a totally incomprehensible and illegal way. And despite the fact that there is no more reason to instill these blames on me, the ministry has answered my question that it will insist on its decision. So, the vinite system will be significantly irritated. However, if we are talking about the ABC system, which has somehow remained with the introduction of vignettes, it is, but I have already pointed out this earlier, it makes sense to use it for this, because the problem of free movement of cargo vehicles in traffic can be solved immediately. You don't have to put that off tomorrow. And I don't see them buying another system if we already have one. But it is true that by doing just that, we will not save anything. And this has been a criticism, even previously expressed to the government, that if we do not divert heavier transit cargo, and that includes vehicles that exceed 3,500 kilograms, to railways, the ecologically disputed cargo must absolutely go to the railways, and those vehicles that go beyond emissions that pollute the atmosphere must go to the railways. And that's what the government forgets because the truck lobby is too strong. I'm not going to favor either one or the other or the third contractor here, I'm going to say free flow on the toll, but I want to point out that we're not going to solve anything with this. We are talking about one problem that is irrelevant, but we are neglecting the essential one that will destroy our highway connection, which we have paid dearly, not entirely, normally, that our grandchildren will pay for it, and the fact is that the quality of building these motorways is so bad that they can't even bear the burden that is on highways today. We don't have any guarantees, and it's going back to the taxpayer's coat of arms. In these facts, when we do not take into account environmental pollution to the extent that we follow the Kyoto Agreement, we do not even follow the configuration of the terrain, because today in Slovenia there is only one environmental threat because Slovenia, if you look closely, we once talked about protected areas, Natura 2000, is almost a whole in Natura 2000. Slovenia is, we can say, a national park itself. And we in the heart of the country are also transitively very exact. We cannot find the right policy in the field of transport and redirect, protect this nature, these beautiful water catchment areas and forests from what is happening to us on an increased scale every day on the roads. Acids are transported, dangerous substances are transported, heavier transit cargo. Let me remind you, honourable Members, that we have changed the Road Traffic Safety Act three times in the National Assembly and three times in the account of trucks in the previous government. We have given in to a permissible, increased axle load, where we have allowed a greater axle load, we have reduced their penalties, and when they remember any other requirements, and they are slightly threatened by protests, they are perfectly comfortable with it. I simply do not see the responsible person who will be able to take responsibility tomorrow for what we are doing today. This would also be compared to those working in direct production. He's warning himself of mistakes. We always say we've warned thousands of times that there must be such a load on the railways. Here, too, we can be European comparable. Europe is just writing a directive and we are already implementing it into our legislation. The second day we have it in the National Assembly, it is translated immediately and must be taken into account because that is what Europe said. Why are we not European comparable and see how this is regulated Austria?Oh, my God! Last but not least, tomorrow or tomorrow, when we find out that we have highways destroyed, you will also have to find the answer to why they were destroyed. Railways alone, environmental pollution is increasing, environmental threats as well. But where civil initiatives are here, I also wonder if we, who are responsible for some strategy for the development of transport policy, do not know how to find the right solution, even though we suggest it, insist on asking it and so on, and then all are deaf. Why doesn't a civil initiative happen here, but when there are a lot of minor problems that can be organised and listened to by the government, and also, I don't know, the referendum is capable of being carried out. Slovenia will simply not bear such a traffic burden anymore, because you also need to know that we have only one road and one railway and in Luka more and more cargo for the transshipment that is going on these roads, along the railways very little, to the eastern part of Europe. As long as you only accept the "non-essential" corrections, as this is today - of course I support it, because it will reduce waiting lines in front of the highway, even though it is temporary - you overlook systemic solutions, you are doing badly. Dear representatives of the government, even if you do not have ministers here, it is likely that estimates of how much damage will occur will be seen very soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u187	Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u188	This time, too, it is necessary to correct the statement. I wasn't talking about how amazing ABC was in every way. I was talking about the flow, and I can tell you that I didn't stand up once when there was something driving on the other belts. But the fact is, of course, guilt is kinder, cheaper, and we are all grateful to her when we talk about it. But in the end, I'm also worried about that hole that's being created on Dars and, as a result, in the state budget, which is the second question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u189	Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Directive provides for improvements which are of a temporary nature but which are better than the existing one. It is therefore right to support and accept the offer, while at the same time working to develop and drive a longer-term solution also by upgrading a system that will be acceptable to all, including those who have concerns about a different solution. With the solution proposed, we will avoid convoys of trucks at toll stations, which is currently the best solution for all road users. I am not against improvements and progress that would unite in the European system, but that is what is currently the best and fastest solution, but also the cheapest. But for better solutions, let us take a little more time not to make mistakes again, for every thoughtlessness is always overpaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Clown, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. I didn't mean to argue, but since I see some things that some of us really understand very well or you understand these things, I wonder when I've really been using these roads for a long time anyway. In the beginning, I used them as the ones for which we try to change this system - I was among them. Today, too, I am pleased to find in some way that at the beginning of this year, at the start of the crisis, the crowd is returning, as we would say, to the roads. When I drive every day from Séžana to Ljubljana, I have continuous types of trucks on the road, so I regret that we have a highway with only two lanes, because we should have a wider one today. I also agree with some who say that traffic should be diverted to railways, but I ask myself, according to the latest information we have just heard in Luka Koper, railways are not capable of accepting this load in such a quantity, and there must also be real thought and realistic consideration as far as possible. But I'm listening today, and I'm kind of confused too, although, as I said, I do know some of these things about systems, like satellite tolling, free-flow tolling, ABC, vignettes, OBU units. How does that normal citizen or citizen who drives every day on these roads understand these things, probably only by waiting as little as possible and paying as little as possible. However, when we speak of carriers being alone or users of this system, which we are now introducing, we have been begging for a few years to upgrade this system in order to make the flow easier. They also said: for the first time, they will save on fuel, and for the second time, they will reduce pollution, and that was their interest. And I think that's exactly what we're doing today, or it's a little late, like I said, because we could have done it a long time ago. There was also a speech, as far as I can remember, because I also worked somewhere, that this system cannot be upgraded in this way, that it is a very expensive matter. After some calculations, there were then 8 million euros, now that I know we have arrived at 500, 600 000 euros at the moment, and if we solve this problem in this crisis, we will upgrade this issue until we put in place a new system, because the directive imposes this issue on us and we are just ahead of the present. And if we get an interoperable unit with this system that allows and somehow satisfies this European regulation, then I think we have achieved ours. I am sure, even the Transport Committee has made it clear that the call will be, and I am very pleased that this government has also adopted an action plan that clearly foresees all these matters and needs only to look at them and then the picture will be much clearer in this area. And there's something else I'd like to point out. Even with satellite tolls, which have been much talked about, and with "go box" systems, which are a copy of the Austrian n of all others, the numbers are spinning, which are very high. And at this point, going directly, as someone said, to such a system would probably be unwise, because it will really have to be examined and examined, which system will allow us the best control, the best control, the greatest flow, and it will be the cheapest. The new system, which is also envisaged and has been widely discussed, is a copy of the Austrian system, which is "capsch" according to some of the claims that I am supposed to have cost 102 million euros. Thus, some things are very complex here, and I believe in experts working in this area to find such a system, as I said earlier, which will be operational, allowing for as rapid a flow as possible, as little damage on the roads as possible and will be cheaper for taxpayers. Thank you. I will therefore support the proposal proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u193	Mr. Master Couss, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. He explained something and answered Ambassador Verlich. As has already been said, this adjustment, in addition to the benefit of the charging of the toll relating to Euro-emitic standards, also represents important environmental benefits, as Mr Anderlič also mentioned. Environmental benefits, as different accounting will also mean environmental discount and this is also an answer to Mr Verlic, why at present only such number of tables as was in the summer of 2005, because, of course, ABC table has so far enabled only lifting the ramp, but has no possibility of environmental discount and now this number of tables will significantly increase due to this additional discount and environmental benefits. As regards the international invitation to tender. It has already been mentioned that this is in the Government's Action Plan and the international call will be opened in the second half of 2010 and then all the procedures needed in 2011 are in order to be selected and when the new system enters into force in 2012, so that the selected ones can also be used from the tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss the amendments anymore, so I conclude this debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads - Shortening Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Kus, Secretary General.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u197	I made a mistake. I told the Secretary-General. Secretary of State, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u198	It's okay. Respectable. The National Assembly. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, which is substantively linked to the previous item on the agenda. This is also a matter of substantive change of just a few articles, but this is a change of three articles, which is of course very important. In fact, the proposed law extends the powers of supervisory authorities to prevent possible abuses that may occur in relation to the enforcement of the adjustment of tolls in relation to the Euro-Emission Class of the vehicle, and breaches of the new substantive provisions of the law are classified as criminal provisions. Adaptation of toll in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle shall be in accordance with the so-called Euro-vignette Directive, which has been transposed into our legal order by means of a toll law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms, which will be enabled by 1. 1. 2010 Adapting to the toll in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle will only be possible under the options offered by the existing toll system in connection with the payment of tolls by Dars electronic media. The applicable legislation regulates the irregular electronic registration of the crossing of the toll station only in cases where the tollee in a closed tolling system at the toll station correctly registers the passage, at the exit toll station where the prisoners are raised, and the ABC electronic plate hides or quickly transports the toll station and the system does not detect it or the Dars payment card does not put it on the reader by fixing the toll. In all of these cases, there is intentional misconduct, the sole purpose of which is the failure to pay the toll. The draft law gives the toll-road operator a public mandate to have all the more detailed questions concerning the execution of tolling and the method of payment of tolls by ABC electronic plates and other electronic media of the toll-road operator set up by the toll-road operator under the general conditions of the regulation of electronic devices. The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt the proposed amendments to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Jank Webr for explanation or presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. At its 6th meeting on 27 November, the Committee on Transport also carried out an examination of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, who was at the meeting at the time, said that the law must be adopted in order to prevent any abuse that might occur with regard to the enforcement of the adjustment of the toll amount in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle. It is therefore necessary to extend the powers of the supervisory authorities and to include infringements of the substantive provisions of the law as criminal provisions. In the course of the examination of the law, the discussion resumed in some way, as was the case with the previous item on the agenda, mainly the reference to the ABC electronic card as the only electronic toll collection medium in relation to the Euro-emission class of vehicles by 2012. Again, the applicant made it clear that the upgrading and use of the ABC electronic card is a transitional solution that ensures that a new tolling and tolling law is adopted with electronic media, which will ensure free movement of tolls in relation to kilometres transported and take account of the vehicle’s Euro-emission class and operate at an appropriate frequency. A call for proposals will be made for all of this. The amendments tabled at the meeting of the Committee by the groups of Members or until the meeting of the Committee by the groups of Members were also adopted. The Committee also voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Janez Ribič to present the opinion of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Again, I repeat, despite the fact that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we do not agree that the Government will bring all laws into Parliament too late and practically for all laws, so it requires reduced procedures, which is not in line with the commercial reasons for the reduced procedure, we will support the law. The amendment of the law lays down the legal basis for ensuring the control of the operator of toll roads in order to enforce the adjustment of the toll on the basis of the Euro-emission class of freight vehicles, thereby extending the powers of the supervisory authorities to prevent potential abuses. It introduces a new law as a liability in respect of toll payments if the driver uses an electronic tolling device on a vehicle which does not correspond to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle or toll class. On the basis of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, some questions were rectified by the coalition members with amendments. However, the question remains whether it would not be more prudent to move to a new system as the extension of the ABC electronic card violates the interoperability directive, which provides for an open approach to other tenderers. Above all, why haven't we arranged these changes already in the amendment to this law with the ZJC-D card we adopted this May. According to the new toll, the network, which is in the management of Darsa - the highway and the fast road, as well as a certain network of other state roads, such as the north and south of the third development axis, is expected to provide an additional source of financing for the construction of the motorway network. In the Group of Members, we have expressed our views, as already stated in the Tolls Act, over 3.5 tonnes in order to speed up and introduce free movement tolls without unnecessary costs with the upgrade of the ABC system. In addition, I would like to point out that toll control must be carried out in a kind manner. Lately, there have been many complaints about the overly harsh, unfriendly exercise of the control of vineyards and the obstruction of traffic flows in this regard. In particular, only warning and not punishment should be used for drivers who have purchased a vineyard and who have not just installed it. The data that since the entry into force of the vinite tolling system for passenger vehicles has been found to be more than 62 000 infringements due to the non-use of vignettes, with more than 90% of the violators of aliens, shows that information and supply of vignettes is insufficiently effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u204	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I will present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. In the presentation of the views of the previous item groups, the DeSUS Group has also announced or announced support for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. The reasons for our support are practically the same, namely our assessment that the guidelines of the European Directive on the adjustment of toll charging rates in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle are appropriately entered into the proposed solutions, and our assessment that there is a proportionate adjustment, which does not constitute non-discrimination, in relation to the nationality of the user or owner of the vehicle or of the carrier, in relation to the seat of the user or owner of the vehicle or of the carrier instead of the registration or in relation to the origin of the vehicle. The media have recently been full of news about climate change, the only problem of which is, of course, not just greenhouse gas emissions. However, the fact that Slovenia is largely lagging behind European obligations in transport is why these two proposals represent one of the measures that will help to preserve our environment. And in this direction, the DeSUS Group unanimously supports the proposed amendment to the Law on Public Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads is somehow substantively linked to the previous point, this has already been said and it is pointless to oppose, of course, the introduction of a system of control defined by this law, if we support in some way the previous definition, which allows for immediate flow or immediate free flow and tolling in traffic. Of course, the first Article, which empowers the operator of toll services to record vehicles at any part of the toll point in order to identify registration and identify later infringements in respect of Euro-mission classes or tolls declared by the ABC system in the exercise of control. In this way, the offender can also be dealt with later, the control will be established, and it is right that this law, which contains and follows this objective, should be amended to support it as well. In the Slovenian national party, as has already been said, we will not oppose the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will give his position to the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u208	Like I said, it's about twins. I don't know why we have such an arrangement that in many laws we have to regulate virtually the same content or almost the same, but it is the same arrangement. We support all that contributes to making our roads easier and faster to bring in more environmentally friendly trucks. This is because it is a highly stimulating nature when it comes to the possibility of applying incentives to environmentally friendly vehicles, and this needs to be absolutely supported. Although it may be at work when it comes to recording and the like, it can also be at the border of excessive control over all road users or highway users, but it is unlikely that this can be avoided. The end of the abuse is much, not long ago, when supervisors caught someone carrying a truck from an Eastern European country that drove 14 tons more than the weight allowed to drive on a burning oil, and the tachograph arranged in its own way. That's probably how these controls could be and should be even more common. It's too bad this part doesn't even cover those under three and a half tons. You all probably know that on the day, and especially for weekends on the road from Sežana to the Hungarian border or to the south, at least a few thousand Romanian, Bulgarian, some Ukrainian and Moldovan van, closed with a trailer and now, if I read correctly, they discovered someone there even with no idea how many Pakistanis in the trailer, without air and so on. So in this part, we will probably have to work out how to control it, how to exercise control in this part. Probably this law will also allow or not, but we do it primarily, we fix it, we change it mainly because of what we have dealt with before, but in LDS we absolutely support that controls are intensified, that they are thickened and that it is actually carried out permanently and not only with occasional actions, as we can read in the daily newspaper. As we say, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Law on Public Roads and the amendment tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. The amendment, which has been tabled by coalition partners, removes the explicit reference to the "ABC Table", but in the Group of Social Democrats we believe that in practice nothing will change, as the new toll system will be introduced in 2012, and at this point the possibility of tariffing on the existing system is being adapted, as has been said many times today. The proposal of the Public Roads Act itself establishes the appropriate legal basis for exercising control over the correct enforcement of the adjustment of the toll level in relation to the Euro-emission class of the vehicle. It extends the powers of supervisory authorities and breaches of material provisions are included in criminal provisions. The amendment of the law also increases control in the event of possible abuses of the closed toll system. The novelty introduces an appropriate legal basis for the execution of photographs in cases of acquisition and issuance of the last valid toll payment document in the closed toll system. By extending the power of the toll manager and by incorporating infringements of the substantive provisions of the law among the criminal provisions of the law, effective control will be ensured with regard to the enforcement of the adjustment of the toll level in relation to the Euro-emission class of the toll vehicle with the ABC electronic plate and the already established electronic payment media of the toll operator. However, appropriate legal bases will also be put in place to sanction potential violators. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also welcome the adoption of the electronic toll system's action plan in the free movement of transport adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since despite the financial problems brought about by the introduction of the wine system in 2008, the new toll system will be introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. And Dr. Peter Verlich, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you. The new proposed law is to control the passage of toll stations in the transport of vehicles, freight vehicles with electronic media by the toll driver. The coalition first tabled an amendment that tried to introduce to the text of the law the legalisation of toll payments specifically for the ABC electronic table and for other electronic media. In our parliamentary group, we objected to the falsification of the ABC electronic table. Let's explain why. The ABC electronic table represents an outdated microwave electronic tolling system at an inadequate and non-standard frequency that does not follow the European Union Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll systems. The ABC tables were definitively abolished for personal vehicles with the introduction of vignettes and we expected that the ABC tolling monopoly would go into history as a system that worked, but in an outdated and monopolistic manner. Monopolies in the modern world of market competitiveness, in our opinion, mean, unfortunately, a particularly high price for the user. Obsolete ABC plates have returned to our highways due to the requirement of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to allow the passage of trucks with abandoned ABC license plates. Automobiles obviously did not buy this because for more than 28,000 trucks, only 2,500 ABC plates were sold, which is less than 10%. So why do they insist on ABC plates if they're obviously not going on the market? Who wants to keep the ABC system here? Automobiles obviously not if only 10% of the plates have been sold. The requirement to upgrade the ABC system to allow different tolls for different emission classes of freight vehicles for freight vehicles is, in our view, also in direct contravention of the Toll System Interoperability Directive. According to our assessment, the upgrade is an essential functional novelty that requires an open international call for competition between different toll systems, in accordance with the Directive. However, in the case of the proposed law, a monopoly is clearly granted to an outdated ABC system. Let us reiterate, the now table of coalition amendments, which explicitly deletes the text of the law, is appropriate, but disturbs us that it is stated in the explanatory statement that it is an editorial correction, which means that we have already heard in the position of the Group of Social Democrats that the text "the ABC electronic table" will disappear, but will in practice continue the project of upgrading the outdated ABC system, which is unacceptable and in particular contrary to the European rules on tolling. We are justifiably afraid that the Government will now understand the ABC electronic table under the concept of electronic media, such as the dictates of the proposed amendments, and try to upgrade it with an existing provider through the curves without an international invitation to tender. Therefore, we will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 May. 12. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE NAVIGATION PROVISIONAL SERVICES OF AIR TRANSPORT, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Kus, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members. You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of air navigation services. The aim of amending and supplementing the Act on the provision of air navigation services is to adapt and harmonise Slovenian legislation in this area with Community rules on the Single European Sky and to regulate the issue of air navigation services infrastructure following amendments to Slovenian accounting standards. This eliminates the different regulation of the same issues with EU and Republic of Slovenia rules and harmonises them. The main solutions proposed are as follows. The provisions of the law on issues regulated by EU rules are deleted. The public undertaking shall take over the provision of services for the purposes of operational air transport. The public undertaking shall be recapitalised by a real investment consisting of the funds allocated to the management of the public undertaking Air Traffic Control of Slovenia. Of this, construction works built on land owned by the Republic of Slovenia are exempted from the requirement for a longer period of use for air navigation services. This also addresses the issue of undistributed profits and reserves of the company. Next time. In order to maintain the cost base for the Republic of Slovenia, a public undertaking shall be authorised and the cost base and the cost for the service unit for the Republic of Slovenia approved by the Minister of Transport. The question of covering liability and insurance coverage is regulated so that the Republic of Slovenia guarantees only the difference between the insurance coverage to which a public undertaking is obliged and the level of the harmful liability. Workers of the Ministry of Defence responsible for performing the tasks relating to the provision of services carried out by a public undertaking shall, under certain conditions, switch to work in a public undertaking. The text of this Act is more terminologically consistent with Community rules on the Single Sky. In accordance with that Government, it proposes that the National Assembly adopt amendments and additions to the law in question in the proposed text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. At its 6th meeting on 27 November, the Transport Committee also carried out a review of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the provision of air navigation services. In the initial presentation of the applicant, it was particularly pointed out that when preparing a solution to the proposal, the principle was taken into account that one issue of air navigation services could only be regulated by one regulation or by a regulation of the Republic of Slovenia or by a regulation of the European Union in accordance with the applicable legal order. Such content of the law has somehow resulted in a broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which finds in its opinion that the proposal removes a larger number of provisions of the applicable law by explaining that these issues are regulated by Council Regulations or Commission Regulations. The Regulation of the European Council is not, of course, allowed to be transposed into the legal order of a Member State, but it should be noted that in many cases the regulations themselves are not self-executive acts but must be enforced by the competent authorities of a Member State. This can only be done if, in accordance with the rule of law, States have the powers and powers to exercise them and if, in the legal order, States are provided with procedural rules enabling them to carry out these tasks. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, a number of amendments have also been prepared, which the Committee has considered, but of course the members in the debate have paid some of the most attention to the provisions of Article 3 of the draft law governing the provision of a meteorological service for aviation purposes. In the debate, the representative of the Air Weather Union stressed the inadequate organisation of services. From the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Environment Agency, which provides air meteorological services in the Republic of Slovenia, has explained that the organisation of these services is appropriate, is regulated by the law on meteorological activities and that no changes or provisions are necessary in this law. Of course, all the members of the Committee agreed that air safety should be ensured in particular and that the functioning of the meteorological service should be properly ensured. The Ministry also provided answers and stressed that the safety issue is fully regulated in the European Commission's regulations in the common requirements for the implementation of navigation services and safety oversight in air traffic management, which we also carry out in Slovenia. The dissatisfaction of the representatives of the Slovenian Air Meteorology Union is considered to be due to the inadequate status of these in the context of the award of public servants. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, and in most cases also summarising the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Services, were adopted by the Committee. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and also adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u218	Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. After taking note of the amendment to the DeSUS Group, we note that the content of the proposed amendments and the additions follow the purpose and objectives that the proposer wanted to achieve, so we will support the amended proposal of the law under consideration. The scope of the provision of air transport services, air information services and air communications services was regulated by the Republic of Slovenia under the conditions of compulsory public service as a public undertaking and in accordance with the applicable legislation already in 2003. At the time of entry into the EU, a number of regulations of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission become merciless in this area in addition to the existing internal legislation. The changes to Slovenian accounting standards in 2005 are also essential, and they are also more relevant international accounting standards under the European Community regulation. This situation is described in the normative regulation of the field of air navigation services, according to the proposaler, the main reason for the legislative overheating of the area. This adoption of the novel means the achievement of the objective of eliminating the different legal regulation of those issues or the duplication of the European rules and the non-compliance of the comprehensive regulation if a matter is governed only by our Regulation or Regulation of the European Union U. Furthermore, the applicant points out that issues relating to the management and infrastructure of all field navigation services and on the Court of Auditors have been identified as irregularities in the accounting matters of navigation service providers. The proposed amendments concerning the recapitalisation of a public undertaking with a real investment, consisting of the funds allocated to the management of a public undertaking and the transfer of the undistributed profits to be made by the date of the capital increase, under this Act, to the reserves of the public undertaking of the services carried out by the public undertaking, will be satisfied by our assessment of both the notices of the Court of Auditors and the requirements imposed by the accounting rules and public economic services regulations. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the novelty of the application of the integrity and consistency of the regulatory arrangements for the implementation of air navigation services, and it is also important that the organisational form and the corresponding financial resources of navigation services are formed with a view to improving the operationality of the services in terms of security and that only the performance of these services is as close as possible to the requirements imposed by Europe in the single European sky. As stated at the outset, we will support DeSUS's proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Legal changes in the provision of air navigation services are certainly welcome, as in some ways we get European comparable, compatible rules and eliminate duplication and different regulatory arrangements for such regulation. One issue of air navigation services can be addressed only by one provision: either the regulation of the Republic of Slovenia or the regulation of the European Union. This is meaningful and urgent. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia must not be burdened with obligations relating to the provision of this service, except in specific budgetary consumers, which we believe is also good in these difficult times, and last but not least, the rules of the Republic of Slovenia and the rules of the European Union must be harmonised so that they represent in fact the integrity of the regulatory regime and, of course, also ensure maximum security and air traffic regulation. In short, another regulation of the European Union, which will be able to remedy any irregularities in our legislation, the state, and unify positions, technical standards and standards in air transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Representatives of the government, honourable Members, fellow Members! The basic objective of the Act on the provision of air navigation services is to ensure both safety, regularity and accuracy of air transport, which is of public interest and must be fulfilled in all conditions and also in all circumstances. The provision of air navigation services is the responsibility of the State, which is a fundamental principle in this field and is already derived from the Convention on International Civil Aviation. This fundamental principle in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is also understood as a basic guide in the preparation of another very difficult legal amendment to the law on the provision of air navigation services, which we are considering today. Our controlled airspace is part of the European airspace and Slovenia is a member of Eurocontrol, which is said to be the European Aviation Safety Organisation, with the strategic objective of integrating our airspace into the functional airspace block of Central Europe and gaining an active role in the provision of services. For this reason, and in particular in terms of ensuring the basic objective of the law, it is important that we adapt and coordinate our legislation in this area with the rules of the European Union on the Single European Sky, with the four Regulations both of the European Parliament and of the Council, and with the 12 Regulations of the European Commission, and deal with issues relating to the infrastructure of air navigation services following amendments to Slovenian accounting standards. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we point out in particular the following solutions brought by the amendments to the Act: the provisions of the Law on Issues Regulated by the Rules of the European Union are deleted; the provision of services for air transport needs not carried out in accordance with standards and recommended practices is more clearly defined; the management of the cost base for the Republic of Slovenia is authorised by the Air Traffic Control of Slovenia; and the Ministry of Defence officials responsible for the provision of air transport services come after this amendment to work in the Air Traffic Control of Slovenia. In this regard, we remind the Government and the competent ministry that there are clearly certain problems with the implementation of the air meteorology service or its organisation, which has been well seen at the very meeting of the home committee, is said to be at a meeting of the Transport Committee, so we call on both the Government and the competent ministry to resolve this problem as soon as possible, professionally, effectively and with the necessary degree of subtlety. Finally, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also support the recapitalisation of the public air traffic control company Slovenia with a real stake and at the same time express our satisfaction that after all the complications in Brno, the construction of the air traffic management and control centre, where the air traffic control of Slovenia will be easier to carry out its demanding and responsible work. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you. Dr. Peter Verlič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much again. Respectable. On the benches we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of air navigation services as a cover law for the operation and organisation of the public undertaking Air Traffic Control Slovenia. Following a review of the final draft law and the treatment before the Committee on Transport of the National Assembly, which was sent to the National Assembly, we note that the proposal provides for the elimination of non-consistency between the Aviation Act and the Air Traffic Navigation Services Act concerning infrastructure and its ownership. The envisaged solution to the planning, development, acquisition and management of facilities, installations and systems required for the implementation of air traffic navigation services by the Aviation Control of Slovenia and the envisaged conversion of assets into a capital share management, thereby enabling Slovenia to own air traffic control over infrastructure, follows the decisions of the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, we wonder whether the public undertaking is recapitalised with all air navigation services facilities and whether we have a comprehensive solution ahead of us. The law provides for the provision of air navigation services for the purposes of operational air traffic control under a contract between the Ministry of Defence and Air Traffic Control of Slovenia, which is likely to make sense in terms of the specific nature of the activity. In this regard, workers who are employed by the Ministry of Defence on the day of the entry into force of the law and carry out tasks from the work area of navigation services are expected to enter into air traffic control. The proposal also does not specify which personnel of the Ministry of Defence are to come under the auspices of the Aviation Control of Slovenia. In order to avoid misinterpretation and potential abuse, it would also make sense for this staff to be named. The proposal for a law on the treatment of revenues from air navigation services provided as the primary revenue of air traffic control adds that the way in which revenue is shared among beneficiaries is determined by the government. The European regulation of the Single European Sky clearly defines how to determine cost bases as the basis for determining the fees on which individual country's revenues from the provision of services are based. The distribution of revenue must be consistent with the cost bases and the share of the actual costs of individual beneficiaries in the bases themselves. Any different or wrong interpretation of income-sharing would constitute a breach of European rules on charging fees, and the proposal therefore seems to us to be pointless and potentially misleading in its interpretation. Finally, I would like to point out that our parliamentary group will abstain from amending the law on the provision of air navigation services because of all the voting. We note that we need to have regulated and unequivocal legislation which, through the regulation of the field of air navigation services, establishes a framework for the organisation and functioning of the public undertaking Air Traffic Control of Slovenia and consequently security, regularity and financial efficiency for users of Slovenian airspace. It must not happen that bad legislation affects aviation safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Your Honor! Once again, it's a short-term marriage. At first glance, it can be agreed that the only reason for such a procedure is simply to harmonise and rationalise rules or to eliminate duplication or different regulatory arrangements of the same or similar matters in the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia and in the rules of the European Union. However, we can also see that the proposal has 31 articles, which have almost as many amendments as were tabled. It is clear that the rules of the Republic of Slovenia and the rules of the European Union must be consistent with each other and thus represent the integrity of the regulatory arrangements for the provision or implementation of air navigation services and that we owe the type and form of air navigation services to approximate as closely as possible the requirements set out in the rules of the European Community on the Single European Sky, in particular in Regulation S-2096/2005. It is also clear that the Directives are not enforceable directly and therefore appropriate rules must be adopted. It may be agreed that the issue of air navigation services may be governed by only one provision, a regulation of the Republic of Slovenia or a regulation of the European Union, in accordance with the applicable legal order, and that our budget may not be burdened by obligations relating to the provision of air navigation services, except for individual budget users, who thus provide certain services, for example, air traffic of State aircraft or operational air transport, or by fulfilling their domestic or international obligations, for example, flights which are exempt from charges for air navigation services. In view of the comments of the Air Meteorology Union, the KS-90 and the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service and the many corrections that were needed, we doubted whether we would have supported the law. Both the Council of State and the Commission of the National Assembly for Local Self-Government recommend to the Government that meteorological services at airports be provided within the framework of a public undertaking and not within the framework of a public authority. We will decide when we hear further explanations from the Government, as it does not see where in the law in force in the Republic of Slovenia it is determined which national supervisory authority in the Republic of Slovenia is the national supervisory authority within the meaning of Article 4 of Regulation No S. 549/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 laying down a framework for the creation of a single European sky. Air traffic surveillance or navigation is important for the safety of our country and is a very serious matter to be taken with unconscionable solutions or with such a poorly prepared law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. POINT OF THE DAY - ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE Tax PROCEDURE LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Horvath, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! Allow me to briefly state the main solutions to the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. The basic objectives or starting points of the bill are transparency, legal certainty and simplification of the tax procedure, as well as the alignment of the legislative text with changes in the European legal order. This reduces the administrative burden on taxpayers and the tax authority and stimulates taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations voluntarily. The main solutions to the bill are as follows. A set of data marked as tax confidentiality shall be extended which may be disclosed by the tax authority to certain entities in tax-related cases, for example in procurement procedures - then the liability of the person who manages the assets of the debtor shall be determined, of the natural person who is declared missing or insolvent, and the liability of the person who carries out the property of the deceased until the acquisition of the property by the legal successor. A specific case of termination of the tax procedure shall be identified where, in view of the finding of the actual situation, an inquiry is to be carried out with the competent authorities of other EU Member States and the competent authorities for the exchange of data; the time when the normal service is carried out shall be reduced from 20 days to 15 days. In cases specified by law, the taxable person has the opportunity to challenge the facts of the service performed, in which case the service of the informational calculation of the income is challenged, as it is said, by filing a tax return if the taxable person has not received the informational calculation. As follows, a new reason for recovery is laid down, which makes sense for the possibility of remedying an irregularity in the assessment of the tax even after the completion or finalisation of the decision. As follows, late interest shall be paid when the tax authority does not pay back excessively paid or unjustifiably paid late interest within the statutory time limits for reimbursement of the tax. It is also possible to pay the tax debt after the expiry of the period of limitation if the tax debt is secured by mortgage and a claim for enforcement is submitted to the competent court before the expiry of the limitation. It shall be determined that, as a rule, the entrants are no longer sold on public auctions, but that the tax authority itself chooses a suitable method of selling which takes into account the most favourable outcome, in particular the most favourable price it will be able to achieve in the course of sales. More specifically, the obligation to pay a tax withdrawal in the case of certain transactions that have started to occur recently and have not been properly or specifically regulated so far. For example, transactions related to the introduction of fiduciary accounts under the law governing the market in financial instruments. The proposer shall support the amendments tabled in Article 5, 61, 111 and 153a of the SD, proposed amendment to the Law on Tax Procedure and shall not support the proposals of the SDS Group to Article 111 of that Act. 12. 2009 Dear Members and Members, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that a third debate be held on this basis and that the law be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues. At its 12th meeting, on 3 December 2009, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. At the request of the Group of Members and Members of Parliament, the National Assembly, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, carried out the first examination of the law in question and adopted the conclusion that the proposal was suitable for further consideration. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, given the scope of the novel in the context of general comments, raises the issue of a more appropriate approach by drafting a new text. At the same time, it draws attention to non-compliance with certain constitutional principles and gives further specific warnings to Article 43 of the legislative proposal. On 27 November 2009, on the basis of that opinion, amendments to the proposed text were tabled by the coalition group SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. In the framework of the working material, the amendments tabled at the initiative of the Legislative and Legal Service concerning the delivered opinion were subsequently accompanied by proposals for amendments to the amendment of the Committee or the amendment to the amendments of the groups of Members, namely Articles 5, 8, 77, 92 and 132 of the legislative proposal. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 27 November, which did not support the text in question. In an additional explanation for the articles, the Minister responsible for the finance provided the essential points of the written explanation of the text in question. Otherwise, the novelty's main objective is to reduce the administrative burden of both taxpayers and the tax authority by stimulating the taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations voluntarily while aligning the legislative text with the changes in the European legal order. This harmonises changes to basic legal principles while ensuring the necessary consistency of tax procedural legislation. At the same time, support was expressed on behalf of the Government to all the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and subsequent proposals for amendments to the working material committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Furthermore, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summarized the individual findings of the written opinion, stressed that the amendments of the parliamentary groups followed the opinion of that service to a large extent and pointed out certain open issues. In the discussion, the members of the Committee drew attention to Article 111 and the proposal for a new 153a, and to the two amendments drawn up at the meeting itself at the initiative of the individual members of the Committee, which the Committee adopted below. At the hearing, the committee of the amendments of the qualified candidates adopted all amendments of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS, as indicated, to the 34th Article of the legislative proposal as set out in the report of the Committee. After voting on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you. Since the National Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 10th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. First, I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares and LDS. Who wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment to this Article? Nobody. I am putting to the debate Article 61 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares and LDS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Let's move on. I am putting to the debate Article 111 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares and LDS and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a debate? Yeah, I can see that. I'm opening the application. Mr. Likar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment to Article 111, namely that the taxable person is obliged to submit a statement of income to the tax authority in electronic form only if the person who is also obliged to provide the income assessment data referred to in that Title has sent him in electronic form in the past year, and if he has had more than 10 taxable withdrawals of such capital. In doing so, we have also relied on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this article, which notes that the diction of the article proposed by the Government constitutes an unfriendly tax administration for the debtor or citizen. In the original proposal, it was stated that if the taxable person carried out more than five tax-free removals of capital, the tax return must be submitted exclusively in electronic form. However, they explain in their explanations that computer equipment installed at tax offices may be used for these purposes if it does not have adequate computer equipment. Furthermore, the Government explains that in recent years a number of taxpayers have submitted a tax return of 500 and more censuses, and Durs spent eight to ten days entering these data. I wonder if in such cases the tax authority has spent eight to ten days, how much time would only be spent on taxpayers who do not have adequate computer equipment and would go to the tax office and meet their tax returns. In the SDS, we agree with the assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service, which correctly assessed that this is not a tax liability or a citizen-friendly tax administration, and assesses that it could also provide for the obligation to provide data to the taxpayers on the basis of such capital withdrawals - I think, in particular, banks and brokerage houses, to provide them in electronic form and that the taxpayers could also send them to the tax authority in electronic form. The Government, or the Ministry of Finance, rejects such a proposal on the grounds that it would interfere with the business relationship of these persons, which, of course, it does not, as this obligation would result from the fulfilment of the tax obligation. Such an argument is also contrary to the governmental principles of the project to remove administrative barriers adopted by the current government. In addition, persons who are bound to provide data to the tax authority must also send them in electronic form. Data already exist in electronic form. It is only necessary to find a way to send this data to the taxpayers in electronic form. Of course, to those who have that option. With the amendment to the SDS, we propose that only those taxable persons who receive this information from those who are obliged to provide data electronically and who carry out more than 10 such transactions must comply with the income tax returns from the sale of securities, other capital shares and investment vouchers. With the support of this amendment, we will take another step towards removing administrative barriers and establishing a more friendly tax administration for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 111 and the amendments to this Article? Nobody. Then we move on to 153.a. and the amendment of SD, Ares and LDS to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u234	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to take their seats and to verify the functioning of their voting devices. We continue to end the 8th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Res to Article 6. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present and 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 7th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16.12.2009. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment, this is the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. In the event that this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2, i.e. the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I see one hand. Mr. Zerjav, please. [[No, I'm sorry.]] Nobody. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 6. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal in the third reading. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 14. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 24 of the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill and gives the floor to the representative of the Government, the proposer of the bill, if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. I propose that the National Assembly also carry out a third examination of the proposal of this law at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 18. 12. 2009, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Toll Code for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3,500 kilograms. We continue the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled. First, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I see one hand. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Slovenia is one of the countries that has not introduced an appropriate form of control over freight vehicles over 3,500 kilograms within the prescribed period. With 1. 1. 2010 should change to a new form of tolling, but in the whole year the Government has not taken any appropriate measures to actually introduce this. Because of this, or as a result of this, or as a result of this, this has happened, but we are now correcting, we are adopting an amendment to the law by which the Government is upgrading the inadequate frequency, in a way that will upgrade this ABC system without a call for tender. We believe that this is not appropriate and that everything needs to be done to get into the toll in the free traffic flow with an appropriate frequency, such as European comparable, even determined, and not to upgrade the inadequate frequency. However, this is also contentious because, when a call is not made, concessions or rights are granted to the existing administrator of the ABC system to upgrade the system in a non-competitive manner and this will certainly be very encouraging. And we also make it incompatible with European systems in this area. In short, I propose that you support the amendment to allow and force the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out all the tolling procedures for freight vehicles over 3,500 kilograms; of course, taking into account all those additional environmental requirements that are necessary. However, if this amendment is not adopted, this means that the existing toll system is being extended, that this upgrade will pass through the call for proposals in a non-competitive manner and given that these telecommunications are in the management of the Ministry of Higher Education, this also means a kind of card of those who are watching over the electronic telecommunications system. In short, we estimate that this is a very lobbyist and not a move that would help improve, fairer and, above all, a more competitive toll system on our motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you. Anyone want an explanation on their own behalf? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 1. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I also note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads. We continue the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No, no, no. I therefore note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third-reading law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 66 Members present and 48 votes in favour against 15. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 18th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Zo provision of air navigation services, reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There is a full vote on the law. There are 65 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda - this is the second consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, first of all to decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 5. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 for them, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 61. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 111. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment referred to in point 2 to the same Article shall be without prejudice. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 22. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 153a. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present for 67, against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you. Because they were in second reading do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I'm just asking if the government representative has the authority to do this at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u242	Yes, we have found this at the time of the debate that a certificate or authorisation has been submitted. Therefore, since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, be held at this meeting in the third reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal; the decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're in the voting process. Do you have a procedural proposal? A procedural proposal may be made in connection with the vote. There's also a possible obstruction, a forecast of obstruction. Mr. Tanko, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Now I see there's a street going on in the National Assembly that some people can't stand to have anyone who's not on the right side raise their hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u244	Please, Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u245	Dear colleagues in the National Assembly! I think that the situation that is taking place in addressing today's agenda points cannot be exactly proud of the government coalition and even less of the government. They perform here as representatives of the Government of various State secretaries of various ministries, at points which have absolutely nothing to do with their field of work. In these proceedings, we have seen today that we have not been able to get competent answers to individual questions, not at those points where we have dealt with transport, tolling and similar things, nor at other points of the agenda when government representatives who do not know the contents of the work come. I think that the President of the National Assembly and all those who organize the work of the National Assembly should make sure that competent state officials, competent officials, come to the meetings of the National Assembly, but not to allow a state official to come here for a form, who is a state official by status, but who is not competent and not competent for a particular area. I advise you that in the future, because of us - today, there have been 70 or more votes, 80 - make sure that we get the right materials and the right interlocutors so that we can come to a standoff at the examinations of these laws and find out what is actually a better solution. The way you picked it up today is a way that shows the underestimation of members of the National Assembly. I note that this coalition does not have any relation to this house, and it is not surprising, therefore, that the references held by the National Assembly in the framework of the assessment of the public authorities are as low as they are. No wonder we get incompetent interlocutors, by the way, we make sure that state institutions or anyone does not report to the National Assembly, that we cannot hold a debate and then those most responsible wonder why the State Assembly rating is so low. Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that you make sure, in the future, that ministers or state secretaries from those areas whose laws we are dealing with are present at the meetings of the National Assembly. This is also the case in Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today we had everything but competent interlocutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u246	Well, that wasn't a forecast of obstruction. Do you also have a procedural proposal, Mr. President? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u247	Mr Vice-President, I am procedurally proposing that we proceed with the vote. At the same time, I would point out that the Government has sent representatives here also in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and that every elected official of the Government must be able at the right and appropriate time to present the basic positions and laws proposed by the Government. This has been favoured and I do not think there can be any comments on this. Whether the answers satisfied you or not, of course, is another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 18. 12th, following the adjournment of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 12th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
