ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Anton Rop, Roberto Battelli, Robert Hrovat and Miran Potč from 14-16:00. I invited the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor to the 1st item of the agenda, representatives of the State Council to the 10th, 11th and 23rd items of the agenda, representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 27th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 11 May 2009. We will decide on the draft agenda under the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda be extended by considering the Proposal for Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, urgent procedure, EPA 364-V. The extension proposal was received by letter dated 14. 5. 2009 He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants a word from a government representative as a billmaker? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. This will be considered as the 21st point on Tuesday, 26 May 2009. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda should be extended further with the consideration of the following two bills: Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., on the basis of loans hired to finance the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., in 2009, urgent procedure, EPA 374-V and Proposal for a Law on the partial reimbursement of compensation for salaries, urgent procedure, EPA 375-V. The extension proposal was received by letter dated 15. 5. 2009 I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a bill-maker? Ms. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to explain why we are asking for an extension of the agenda at this meeting of the National Assembly. As a result of the situation in the financial markets at this time, the Slovenian compensation company is in large liquidity difficulty and simply no longer has sufficient resources in June to settle all its outstanding obligations, in particular obligations arising from denationalisation procedures, so we propose that the law on the granting of the guarantee be adopted to the Slovenian Compensation Society, with which the Slovenian Compensation Company could be in debt and thus provide liquidity for the payment of liabilities. The company has already carried out all the procedures for borrowing, raised tenders, acquired appropriate conditions for borrowing. However, the option for this assignment expires in the first half of June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. I conclude the debate on the proposals for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., from credits hired to finance the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., in 2009. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The meeting will treat this point as a 21st point on Tuesday, 26 May 2009. Secondly, we are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law on daily remuneration for salaries. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The meeting will treat this item as a 21st point on Tuesday, 26 May 2009. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you that an hour ago we have been asked to reconsider the decision of the College, namely the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act where a group of Members, qualified, proposes a re-decision on the urgent procedure. That is why I am adjourning the session for fifteen minutes until 14.20, and we continue to meet and decide at 2.20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, this is on the basis of the request of the Group of Members to decide on the decision of the College of President of the State Assembly to propose a law on amendments and additions to the Police Defence Act following an urgent procedure, to decide on the State Assembly. The Chair's College shall meet on 15. 5. 2009 decided that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Within one hour of the beginning of the meeting, a group of 23 Members with the first signed Jozet Tank requested that, pursuant to Article 143(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the College decide on the decision of the College. Would you like a representative of the motions? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that. An hour and a half before the meeting of the National Assembly, the Group of Members submitted an application for re-decision on the procedure of the Police Act. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed amendments to the law are seriously interfering with both the procedure for appointing the Director-General of the Police and his deputies, and some powers are changing. Especially those that concern the integrity of an individual. Now, as regards the procedure for appointing the Director-General of the Police, we believe that this matter is also adequately resolved in the current law. The current Minister has also carried out the procedure for the appointment of the Director, a call has been issued, several candidates have applied and four have also come through the Human Resources Accreditation Council procedure, if I am not mistaken. However, apparently, the real candidate has not applied and because he wants to change and appoint the Director-General of the Police in a different way than has been stated, the Government has actually rushed with the proposal, by amending the bill in accordance with the urgent procedure. We also believe that this change of law is not necessary. There are mechanisms and procedures that allow the Minister to choose from those who went through the Human Resources Accreditation Council the right person for the Director-General of the Police. Even in this case, which I mentioned, I could do it. However, it is clear that the human resources paradigms that have been initiated in this mandate and which have also been announced and started to be implemented are no longer in line. For there are more and more cases where the fundamentals deviate from the methods, procedures and appointments of individual important functions in the state administration and also in individual institutions. We are therefore of the opinion that this law should also be amended in a different way. Such changes take time, a little more time. A public debate should be held. For the change of powers, and of those matters also then in the treatment procedures, including the integrity of an individual, is such that it is necessary to obtain another, broader opinion. The opinion, perhaps, of eminent lawyers, the opinion of civil society and, of course, also have sufficient political consensus for such a process. Only the appointment of the Director of Police and the amendment of powers, however, cannot in any case be the reason for the adoption of a law by emergency procedure. There can't be a reason for that. Because as the way of appointing the Director-General of Police changes, we cannot talk about matters that are essential to the functioning of the State. This procedure has been open long enough. The time for the appointment of the Director-General of the Police has been sufficient, even now enough to repeat the procedure, for this candidate, who is now in office, is appointed for a certain period of time. I think that the abuse of the Rules of Procedure or the use of the Rules of Procedure, as has been allowed by the Government and followed by the coalition, has led to abuses. For there is no valid reason for this amendment to the law to be made by an emergency procedure. All that would make sense in doing so is to calm matters down, to examine matters, to get the right opinion, to debate them, to ask those who are excluded from this process, what we are thinking about the changes in question. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we propose that the National Assembly decide again on the procedure. And I ask you to support the proposal and return the matter to the stage where we can also have a broader or general debate on the law. I believe that this law deserves such treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request, so I propose to the National Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 22 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the National Assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the urgent procedure at this meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. We are moving on to setting the agenda, and I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you have adopted it with reference and with the additions adopted. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda for the 6th meeting of the assembly has been set. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u7	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 37 questions from Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of questions referred shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph, of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the ruling coalition's question of the mission will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that an individual does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Secretary-General of the Government or the Minister shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on oral answers. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Dr Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space from 19:00 on and Mag. Milan Squeakle, Secretary General of the Government since 19:00. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked first by the Victory of Jelinčič Plmeniti, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Health must be a value that the State must guarantee to all citizens equally, regardless of the patient’s status. The State must provide care to the patient when he needs it and not only when the patient is physically able to pay for health care. Health must not be the privilege of the rich. Unfortunately, in Slovenia health is no longer a fundamental human right. Health has become a market asset with millions of dollars in profits. The health and life of all citizens and citizens must not depend on bureaucracy. Health must take precedence over bureaucracy and the health system must also allow the individual to do so. This is the five starting points that the state must stick to if it wants to regulate its health system, so that it will be made to the extent that it actually benefits. However, in Slovenia we do not seem to have the right way to get to all of these postulates and ensure them. We could do a few things one way or another, but still. I ask the Prime Minister: How will all the austerity measures envisaged by the Government ensure everything I initially counted? The fact is, the doctors are fighting back. They've done 27.42% salary increases, but health care isn't for the better, it's for the day to day on foot. The fact is that doctors are sitting in Ljubljana, there is a shortage of doctors on the edge. At home, in Ljubljana, they wait and don't want to go out. I ask: Why does the government not do this so that after completion of the study, a doctor should go somewhere where the Minister of Health would appoint him? In this way, in Slovenia, where nothing is far away, we could ensure even conditions. And yet, doctors prefer to stay home. If they go into private practice, why doesn't the state charge them for what they have invested? But let's just forget about it. Are we really that rich or something? So far, so much. I also ask: Why not introduce a clinical pharmacist in hospitals? In fact, Americans have found that they save around €4 billion a year just by providing this new job. The matter is still full and time is running out, but please do it first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u10	Mr Member, in the introduction to your question, you have cited five points of reference. I agree with all five points. The health of our people is most important. I would like to inform you how the Slovenian Government intends to address this question in order to comply with these starting points. First, it should be noted that Slovenian health care operates in outdated legal frameworks, which no longer constitute an appropriate basis for solving the problem you are citing. One of the main sources for health insurance concerns mentioned in your question is the inadequate definition of public health activities in the Republic of Slovenia and the delimitation of public health care in private health services. We are faced with the concealment of the public and private work of health workers, the inadmissibility of intertwining public and self-paid health services and treatments, and, as you yourself said, with the irrational organisation and ineffective functioning of healthcare providers. The government is fully aware of these circumstances, so intensively, as you know, not without controversy - public, professional and otherwise, it is preparing new legal frameworks that will reform Slovenian health care with three objectives: to modernise and improve the organisation of activities, to increase citizens' access to health services and to ensure more efficient use of compulsory health insurance funds that are users' funds. The extremely acute material conditions, including as a result of the recession, also require interventions to intervene in the implementation of public health programmes with immediate effect. It is clear that the increase in the number of unemployed, the reduction in working hours and the slowdown in gross domestic product growth have an impact on the reduction of compulsory health insurance income. At the same time, due to the change in the pay system in the public sector in health care, as you yourself said, Member, we are facing a relatively high increase in employees' salaries. Both lead to an increase in the gap between the revenue and expenditure of the health treasury and the Government must act. So far, austerity measures have been taken at the Assembly of the Health Insurance Office in the direction of rationalising the work of health care activities and more prudent prescriptions of medicines and their consumption. The value of health service programmes of providers is expected to decrease by 2.5%. This is intended to ensure that public health authorities provide exclusively by internally reducing all types of operating costs, such as: reducing depreciation costs or more rational processes, reducing overtime, prescribing generic medicines instead of originators, and other measures to reduce drug expenditure. Dear Member, the common objective of all measures taken by the Government is to maintain the level of health care achieved and access to health services in the healthcare system in acute economic conditions. As you yourself said, the social status of people cannot be determined whether they receive adequate medical care or not. And the Government will adhere to this principle in its actions and in the reorganisation of the legal basis. As a result, patients cannot be deprived, they will not, and we will do everything possible to enable the exercise of the rights guaranteed by law. These measures concern only a more rational behaviour of health services, which would be mandatory in any case. In this context, let me stress that the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance are working intensively through negotiations to reduce the price of medicines. Here, if possible, for the time being, I will also reply to the Member of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your response, please? Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have heard many things in your reply, but I have not heard some important things. Let's say: Why aren't all the orders for the entire health sector going to one address? Each hospital itself orders both consumption material and equipment. Various interfaces, intermediaries account for between thirty and seventy percent of the earnings, and we pay the state or the insured. When is this going to stop? In addition: When will the medical profession be responsible for the patient? Patients are dying, not just a little bit. There are many who have done harm and yet no one will be harmed. The Medical Chamber clearly protects its colleagues and will never approve any foreign investigation in any strange case. Second thing, concessions. You mentioned concessions, but I think it would be necessary to put concessions on different bases, taking into account also English cases or their practice, which has proved to be very bad in some segments. And yet in Slovenia we have ideas that could fix this matter. Come in. Revenues in the health register. Why do not the arrival of workers from abroad be cleared, which we have added 16,500 permits to them again? Of them, none of these workers have medical bills. It has a minus, it has damage if these workers get hurt or sick. I think there are still a number of questions here, specific questions that require concrete answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr President Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u14	These answers will be provided by the Government with the appropriate reorganisation of the health system. The government has taken care of this, and I must say this, unlike in the past, for the timely contracts signed with the contractors and, despite the reduced budgetary framework, it has ensured, which has not so far been the case for hospitals, that you have mentioned that they are maturing with the worst accumulated losses, allocated funds to pay back the outstanding outstanding liabilities. The government has significantly strengthened the responsibility of public health authorities and has also strengthened the supervision of health activities. What do we plan to do in the future, in addition to amending two important laws? We have postponed the payment of the obligation to depreciate, strengthened the attitude towards the implementation of the tender. Let me just give you an example of the oncology institute. This was signed one year ago for EUR 2,400,000. The current Ministry of Health has launched the call for €1,100,000. The project is under construction. We have also been able to agree with voluntary insurance companies which have also reduced their costs in order to assume the obligations of compulsory insurance and to sign an agreement not to raise the premium. None of these measures, honourable Member, are at the expense of the insured, despite the tightening of the situation. Finally, I should like to add that in the Government, we are thinking that, on the basis of the taxes paid on profits that health care organisations had to pay due to irregular health insurance remittances, at least part of these funds would be earmarked for the reduction of waiting periods. In short, honourable Member, both you and the Government agree that we have a system that no longer meets the needs of modern Slovenia and its people, especially when it comes to health. We are preparing to amend legislation and this is essential. I'll give you a brief summary. We're proposing a reform of the health system. We want to strengthen the public sector, and we also want to regulate its relationship with the private sector. All these are the reasons why this High Council will soon consider this legislation, complement it, if necessary, and Slovenia will receive, I think, modern, well-organised health care, particularly public.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the National Assembly, I don't know, there's a young man walking around here, while the President is giving an answer. I think that this is unfair to both the President of the Government and the Members, and he still hears no, he seems to be hearing very poorly, as he appears to be. Maybe he doesn't understand. Otherwise, I think it would make sense to sort it out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u17	Let me handle this. It is not unusual, however, for staff members from the Group of Members to come to Members, so that this was not a precedent. As long as they're not really in the way of the meeting, I'm not gonna stop this. Please continue if necessary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I'll keep going, but that's exactly what this young man was up to, because he was standing here between me and the Prime Minister of the Government who was responsible for me, and once again he can't be seen through a man, even though someone would want it in any way. In accordance with Article 246, second paragraph, I request that we vote on the opening of the debate in the National Assembly. I think that this is a serious problem that needs to be solved in front of everyone, and we need to find the right solutions. I am sure that in the National Assembly we are people who can also give some ideas that are then implemented in the new law, because we must not work in the way that has been done since 1992, when the ruling structure has put its proposal forward and has voted by force in the National Assembly to the detriment of citizens and citizens. Therefore, once again, Mr President, second paragraph of Article 246. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zveg Jelinčič Trimenite to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on 19 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jakob Presečnik, Slovenian People's Party, will ask the Prime Minister questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and all others present! It is essential that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is rapidly preparing measures to assist companies in these times. While preparing them in our opinion too slowly, we are concerned that none of these measures cover the agricultural sector. It seems that in the government, it really does not believe that agriculture will in itself avoid a global crisis. According to agricultural economists, the agricultural crisis really starts a little later and ends earlier than after other economic activities, but the agricultural crisis is already very present. It is worrying that, in addition to not proposing measures, you are unwarrantedly rejecting our proposals which, during this crisis period, could at least ease the difficulties of farmers and farmers and agricultural organisations. Let me just give you a few examples. While the Ministry of Finance has decided to increase the taxation of farmers, we have proposed a law whereby payments for an area with limited factors for production are not included in the rate of income. We have also proposed to increase the refund of excise duties on energy consumed in agriculture and also to compare cooperatives with other companies in the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. Our proposal on excise duties was rejected on the Committee, in our opinion, with unfounded and unfounded arguments. We are prepared for an amendment to be considered in the National Assembly, and we expect the Government to be positively identified. In all these proposals, we do not propose different additional and other social transfers, but we are proposing better conditions for the economy. I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: Do you really think agriculture is not part of the economy and does not feel the consequences of the economic financial crisis? And if you think otherwise: Why is there no provision in government anti-crisis measures for agriculture and consequently rural areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u22	The government, Mr President, does not think otherwise than you do, so part of its actions also focus on agriculture, closely monitoring the agricultural situation and government crisis measures cover a whole range of decisions. I would like to present only some who have been and will be accepted for the agricultural sector to survive this crisis by coming out of it, as we hope, stronger. First time. As part of the modernisation of agricultural holdings for investment, the share of public funds rises by 10 percentage points. The amount of the planned payments in 2009 amounts to EUR 14 million and a half. Another time. The maximum amount of support for individual types of investment is increasing, up to €2.5 million per role and €6 million over the entire programming period. The measure will enable greater investment investments to be made. Third time. In the area of diversification in non-agricultural activities and support, the establishment and development of micro-enterprises, the share of public investment funds will increase from 50% to 60%. Fourth time. In the area of rural renewal and development and the conservation and improvement of rural heritage, the share of public investment funds will increase from 50 per cent to 85%, Member of Parliament. Fifth. Amendment to the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme introduces, inter alia, a new measure to support investment in the broadband network of electronic communications. Even in implementing the reform of the common agricultural policy, the government will take account of the effects of the economic crisis on agriculture. Thus, the basic model of direct payments for farmers will not be changed. We will allocate additional resources to sectors most affected by the current crisis. We are planning to provide additional support for milk production in particularly vulnerable areas totalling €1.5 million and to increase payment entitlements in areas with limited factors. It is a matter of maintaining livestock farming in areas where, due to the crisis, abandonment of production is most likely, for which we plan additional funds of at least EUR 3 million. On the basis of the amended directive of the Ministry of Finance, compensatory payments for restricted areas will not be included in the tax base. Amendments to the Income Act are planned in 2009, which will also pay particular attention to the system-wide arrangements for taxation of income for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. As from January this year, farmers as natural persons may also apply for fuel consumption during the year, monthly or for several months together, in order to facilitate the return of liquidity to the farm of the household. In addition, an increase in the share of excise duty refunds on agricultural fuel will be envisaged following the amendment of the Excise Act from 50 % to 70%. We also include the amendment of the Cooperative Guarantee Act among possible recipients of aid. I think that from what we have heard from the answer to your question, honourable Member, we have been able to understand that the Government is taking the agricultural sector as well as all other areas, carefully trying; in the framework of its options, to the best of its ability; to act in such a way that the agricultural sector from the crisis, as I said, would come out stronger than it was.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u24	I will complete this, and I have no question, but an initiative to move forward. The fact is that what you are saying, Mr President, is that the Government is now truly, recognizing and taking seriously some of the concerns, some of the proposals, some of the comments that have already gone, so, some things have gone so far that individuals have also received decisions and so on and there is a process that they must complain. This is a series of administrative tasks that assign each individual and so on. What you have answered, I accept the knowledge, and I really expect the government to continue working in this direction. We will be very careful about these things, and we will also - not only warn - but also propose solutions when we feel that there is something better to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u26	I would just like to add that the Minister of Agriculture is working with the Committees of the National Assembly. And as far as I am aware, it takes into account, as far as possible and as far as it is useful, their comments on the design of measures or the legal basis. I wish that this cooperation would be better in advance, so that it might be even better. The Minister of Agriculture has repeatedly warned me that he is trying to discuss the proposals coming to the Government - either formally or informally - within the Committee or with the members of the Committee on Agriculture. I think that such cooperation as you have suggested is also most appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. In this mandate, the Government has adopted several laws in the field of justice, as well as other measures that have strongly upset the public. It amended the Law on Lawyers, by which it withdrew the consent of the National Assembly to the legal tariffs and transferred it to the Minister of Justice. The Regulation has reduced the number of notary cities by a quarter. She agreed to the terms of the Judicial Society, and despite the recession for which the Government is also guilty, and at the time of the reduction of salaries, the officials were told to pay more than 20% of the salary increase. The government has also submitted a novel of the Penal Code. The reception process was opposed by both the government and the national assembly service, the legal service. In addition to them, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. They all agreed that the novel did not need to introduce confusion into the legal order, but the government and the coalition nevertheless persisted in the adoption process in the National Assembly and thus violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Finally, a banal amendment of the Penal Code was adopted, which can be illustrated perfectly by a statement by Member Gorenak, who said that if the law previously stated that RTV was standing, it now states in the law that RTV was really standing. The fact that there is something wrong with the coalition understanding of the law also calls for statements by top lawyers in the government law, with which you wanted to tax the benefits back. In order to avoid problems, you pushed this law to the coalition MPs in the National Assembly to complete it. What are the reasons for the government not to listen to any warnings that it does not stop, but to process laws that the coalition uncritically votes, while at the same time this same coalition gushes its nose if the opposition is not considered constructive enough. I'm asking you: Do you consider such an approach to the government to be appropriate and worthy of the government you run? I also ask you: Do you intend to briefly amend the judiciary legislation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also in what way do you intend to make these changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u30	Before I answer your questions relating to the judiciary legislation, let me say the following thing as a response to your thesis that this government is also responsible for the recession. According to my inaugural speech at the end of last year, when we recorded the fall of gross domestic product, I did not say in a single word that the previous government was responsible. This global recession has affected the whole world, of which we are part. We note the greatest decline in the world economy since World War II. Once again, perhaps some measure is not fast enough, partly because we are coordinating it with the social partners, perhaps it is not large enough, partly because it is difficult to assess how long the crisis will take, and how to measure money, so that not all of them will be allocated to certain projects. All these criticisms are possible and we are willing to listen to them. But I don't think it's a general, flat-rate critical view that the government isn't dealing with this crisis, it's deepening it. As far as your question is concerned. The Constitutional Court decided at the end of last year that the Government and Parliament are obliged to bring certain provisions of the Public Sector Wage System Act and the Judicial Service Act into line with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has established that these amendments must be implemented by 22 June of this year. The Government is therefore preparing amendments and additions to both these laws and is preparing these amendments in cooperation with the representatives of the Court of Justice and the Council, taking into account the procedural guidance of the Constitutional Court. As far as your question about the payroll system for judges is concerned. The government will propose such an arrangement, which will not constitute additional burdens on public finances and will take into account the specific circumstances of the economic crisis. Although the government has managed to break the sentence in its coordination procedures so far, the process of finalising solutions is not yet complete and it is now too early to talk about concrete solutions and assumptions. I expect and wish that, as soon as possible, the proposal for legal solutions would be subject to public hearing. Come in. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also preparing important amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. These changes will be sent to the Courts and the Council of Justice this week. In particular, it is a matter of introducing a management approach to the judiciary, strengthening the responsibilities of the Presidents of the Courts for business results, monitoring and measuring the effectiveness of courts, increasing the role and responsibility of the Council of Justice to promote timely and quality decision-making of judges, rationalising the management of, in particular, smaller courts, establishing obligations to set up business plans for the courts and linking these plans with budgetary financing for the courts, as well as greater transparency in the decision-making of the Council of Justice. In addition, this year the Government is planning a series of other changes in the field of justice, such as: complete recast of enforcement procedures, the introduction of alternative dispute resolution, the transfer of jurisdiction of courts in non-disputable cases to notaries, followed by a gradual reduction in the number of judges since Slovenia currently has the largest number of judges per capita in Europe. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the modernisation of the Slovenian judiciary to be an important political priority and will therefore do everything possible to implement the "Lukend Programme", which was launched in the previous term. By removing the judicial backlog by 2010. Also, honourable Member, I would like to say to you that the Government is working to ensure that the proposals of these laws, following the harmonisations carried out within the Government and with the judicial officials, will be forwarded as soon as possible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that we can, in addition to the public debate that will take place before that, have a quality discussion and, as a matter of fact, take into account the added value if we consider that it is appropriate for the laws to be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Well, I gave you a little bit of a miscalculation. The government is also to blame for the recession, because it does not propose laws in time and, above all, is not effective enough. I agree with you that there is a lot to be done at a high-quality trial. We have, for example, a case where a police officer, a law enforcement officer paid by this state to take care of the order, threatened the former Prime Minister of the Government, was therefore dismissed from his post, but after the police officer's complaint, for example, the court decided that he should be taken back to work and paid all the costs, that is to say all the lost wages, and also admit the lost working time. Then we have a different case, for example, former Member Rupar was sentenced to seven months in prison after the prosecutor's appeal, which was not satisfied with the first-degree ex-judgment, re-trialed and sentenced to seven months in prison, because one of the witnesses was supposed to say that he threatened to shoot someone in the knee. So that policeman threatened the Prime Minister in writing online, and Mr Rupar was only supposed to be on the basis of an oral witness statement. I'm asking you: Do you not feel that, on the basis of the same legal order, the judgments are quite disproportionate? For the actual threat and the written threat of a police officer to the former Prime Minister of the Government, the sentence was acquittal for the threat of death, while the alleged threat of a Member of the Rupar being shot to the knee was subject to some monthly imprisonment. I want to know: Do you also intend to make quality changes in this field of judicial work, to achieve quality decision-making that the actual judgements will be appropriate to the weight of what has been done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u34	There is no one here who would object to the fact that laws apply to all of us, that none of us should comment on the judgments of the courts or that these are valid and must be respected. And thirdly, that the Government has the duty to set all, material and other conditions so that the third branch of government can decide independently in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Finally, Mr Tanko, Mr Member, as with all other questions, I have also been here in response to them trying to explain what the Government will do next. When you talk about crisis and action, remember that this government is now responsible for the state of affairs for about half a year. I would like to tell you that when I judge everything that has been done, I can find that the government is in situations where it has come into a position at a time when the conjuncture has become a recession that it has taken essentially the right decisions in the right direction. I am aware of the criticism of individual measures, but the main things the Government has put in the right direction and I think we need to continue in this direction. Today, it is impossible to predict how long this crisis will last, how deep it will be, but for now, I would like to say that the Government, with its decisions, the measures taken at the level of the Government, with the measures taken at the level of the National Assembly, has gone in this direction, that the people who today bear the greatest burden of this crisis, these are the socially weaker people, bear this burden more easily, that it is their first and most devoted attention, because it is not their fault that we have to go through this crisis socially connected, but at the same time to think about the points where we will decide to put on new development anchors so that Slovenia is also more competitive and that, after the end of this crisis, we will be able to work successfully in this competitive world that remains on the international labour market, capital and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u36	My question was about justice, not about the economic crisis. And while we are in the midst of an economic crisis, I can tell you that the Group of Members has tabled 11 anti-crisis laws, the Government alone is only 6, of which is also a budget rebalance, and in addition to that, a law that everyone has estimated is not a suitable counter-crisis measure. And now we have re tabled five laws plus the whole package, and I hope that the government coalition will listen to and support these proposals. As far as justice is concerned, however, I believe that it is necessary to go to the branch of justice by improving individual legal solutions. In this area, in particular, it is necessary to ensure that the judgments are such that they are appropriate to what has been done. After all, any judgment or conviction has a significant impact on the fate of people, perpetrators, and even those who are victims. And from this point of view, it is essential that these judgments be just. I think it is appropriate for the Government of this area to proceed in an appropriate manner, because this is a very sensitive area. We are not in favour of the way in which we have dealt with justice laws, as we have been given, for example, in the treatment of the Penal Code, where only a banal amendment of the law, a minor change of the law, has been achieved following an urgent procedure. I also don't think it's appropriate for you to take inappropriate measures to regulate the Police Act and anything else. As for commenting on the individual actions of politicians, you also have here, among your parliamentary group of cases, even the former leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Potrč, attacked the Constitutional Court's judgment in 1997 with extreme sharpness. It is said that commenting on the judgment is not something that is excluded from the debate of anyone, and I think that the judgment can be commented on. However, it may be significant that in the case of this police officer who threatened the former Prime Minister, your fellow Member, Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, has taken a strong stand on the part of this police officer and, in fact, has marked his exclusion from the job as a deprivation of freedom and, in fact, an increase in repression. I believe that all these issues in the field of justice, as well as the changes you are planning and also those that are, need to be debated. I therefore propose that we also hold this debate on the response of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 19 May 2009, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Fortunately, I cannot argue with the predecessor who asked the question, although it is worth one fundamental controversy in the National Assembly. As in recent months, of course, it is not possible today to pass on estimates that the Government is proposing wrong measures, i.e. inadequate measures to react slowly or too slowly. We have also heard that today, and that we are actually all, together, a coalition and a government, to blame for this crisis. That's what the Prime Minister has already talked about. Unlike opposition politicians, we hear quite a good response to the measures taken so far by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by international institutions, which the opposition colleagues like to refer to very much. They estimate that the measures now taken are most appropriate and, you will not believe, even in time. Some European Union countries even follow these measures and propose similar measures to those adopted in Slovenia. Since the measures do not have very rapid effects, as in other developed countries, where they have also allocated significantly more resources to them than we have allocated to us, the public is under the impression that the measures are too late or that there is no action at all. Such an impression increases or increases the behaviour of the opposition Members, who are always proposing new requirements, always new proposals. This, of course, also requires an extraordinary meeting, addressing these proposals and diverting the attention of the Government and also the coalitions to other topics, and thus in some way making it impossible for the Government to do even better work, which, of course, it is in charge of. Because for people, both socially and morally, the most sensitive consequences related to their employment are to employment in the country, Mr President, I ask you: What has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia done so far to address the consequences of this global crisis, particularly in the labour market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u40	Dear Member, the Government adopted an intervention law on partial full-time subsidisation in January. The law is without prejudice to wage relations, the primary purpose is to maintain employment and social security while providing the necessary funds for health and pension allowance. We have earmarked over two hundred and thirty million euros for the implementation of this law. The results are good, as up to now almost seven thousand workers have been included in this programme. There's more than fifteen thousand claims we're dealing with. We estimate that in this way we have maintained, if I round, around eight thousand jobs. This law is particularly important because we have created, if I say so, a win-win situation, both for employees and for businesses and for citizens. What our export-oriented country is facing is the decline in export demand and, as a result, the decline in order, which, of course, has particularly affected our companies. That is why we have decided to make up for the Law on Partial Reimbursement of Wages, which will help these companies. The proposed law also has a development dimension in addition to social ones. It retains the social dimension through the maintenance of employment and the remuneration of workers, and developmental through the provision of retraining training or the up-to-age qualification of workers while waiting for work. As a result of this measure, which has an amount of EUR 100 20 million, we estimate that we will retain an additional twenty-five thousand jobs. We have also fulfilled the commitment to strengthen the well-functioning active employment policy so far. This was very important, as it includes education and training for employees, assistance in finding new jobs, subsidising new jobs and training in the workplace. With the rebalancing we have already increased by 10% because the programme is good and has over fifteen thousand people involved, we are seriously preparing to spend more money on it. We are successfully implementing a small value aid project aimed at supporting self-employment of individuals or groups of employees from firms in difficulty. For young people, an innovative project is prepared: "A graduate - activate and get a job!"which prevents young people from entering open unemployment and makes it easier for young people to integrate into the labour market. There are many similar measures. Finally, I would like to inform the National Assembly of my opinion on this six-month government engagement with the economic and social crisis. As it is said, I wanted to remove the dilemma at the beginning of the mandate on how much the previous Government is guilty of its policy that some of the problems of transition are more visible today than they would have been without this recession. I don't want this discussion in the future either. I don't think it'll bring us any political benefits. I expect, however, that the opposition will also understand that the Government, in its best interests, is convinced that it is taking the best measures in favour of our people, that they are developmental and socially oriented, works from the beginning and will work until the High National Assembly entrusts it with a mandate. We are in difficult conditions, but Slovenia faces the crisis relatively successfully, to face it successfully, we will be able to say when we overcome the crisis and today I tell you that we will overcome the crisis. We're gonna beat her. However, it will take a long and very hard way, and now it is only a political question: Whether we will help each other or not will be a nuisance. I am in favour of helping as much as possible, because not least we are all, but also the Government, especially the National Assembly, responsible for the social situation of our people and also for their prospects for the future. I therefore call for criticism to be in place, but to be measured as much as our criticism of the legacy we inherited has been measured. Slovenia has every opportunity to get out of this crisis, but this crisis is deep and will be long and we will be looking for the right solutions for a long time. No country has ever had a prescription for a crisis. Neither is ours. I think we have a chance to do this, Mr Member, to resolve the crisis in the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you very much. You wanted procedural, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that there is a great deal of talk on crisis resolution and that the coalition has decided that this package, which the Group of Members has put into the legislative process, is a package of 68 measures, plus five laws, to allow the coalition to change its position and allow Members to have a general debate at all. In this package, which is being tabled, you have voted on the way that, in fact, neither the drafters nor the parliamentary group that has worked hard and prepared measures can even present these measures. And I propose to the President of the Government that he also influences his Members to take part in the consideration of this package of laws that have been tabled and also of this global, constructively, as you ask of us. Our actions are also good, our actions are also properly invested [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u43	Dear colleague [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u44	I propose that this too [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u45	This is not in accordance with the procedural question. [[...]] This does not apply to this point. It's something completely different. Maybe very interesting, considering the value of it, but I can't let you do that here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u46	Dear President, the President of the Government has called on everyone in the National Assembly, including the opposition, in particular to participate in the consideration of laws coming to the National Assembly, constructively. And we have also filed a whole package of laws, 16 so far, and I suggest that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u47	We'll have [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u48	Involved in this [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u49	We will therefore have an extraordinary meeting on Friday and please I really have to interrupt you because this is totally in conflict with the Rules of Procedure. [[....]] It does not refer to this point, no, it refers to something else, so Mr Tanko please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u50	Let me just wrap this up. I suggest that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u51	You cannot propose because I will not put something to the vote, which does not actually belong to this point. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u52	I propose that the coalition allow for more than a few minutes of debate in each of the proposals and also in the laws submitted, in order to have a normal discussion, according to normal procedure, as it would be appropriate for the general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 4th and 5th meetings of the assembly. Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič will answer Dr. Petr Verlic's question regarding the freezing of European funds for the construction of motorways in Slovenia. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u54	Dear Member! As regards the article published in the Finance newspaper, which you are referring to, among other things, that the European Commission has stopped the procedure for the approval of funds for the construction of the motorway section Pesnica-Drazenci, this is the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway section, due to the length of the vineyards and the start of the e-roading operation, which is no reason for the termination of the procedure on the basis of the content of the letter from the European Commission. The Commission terminated the approval procedure because it considers that the conditions of compliance with the other Community policies referred to in Article 41/1 of Regulation No 41/1 are not met. 1083/2006, therefore, on 2 October 2008 the Commission imposed a preliminary infringement procedure against Slovenia for the introduction, in the opinion of the Commission, of a discriminatory toll system known as vinjute. Letter from the European Commission DG Regio of 30 March 1994. Ten. 2008 on the termination of the procedure, whose content I will briefly take up below, was transmitted to you by my colleagues 24. 3. 2009 The content of the letter is as follows: "The European Commission DG Regio is 30. Ten. By letter dated 11 July 2006, the Republic of Slovenia or SVLR informed that the deadline referred to in Article 41/2 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 11 July 2006 laying down general provisions in the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1260/99, in which the Commission must take a decision on the approval of a major project for the major A4 Slovnica-Gruškovje motorway project, Slivnica-Drazenci has been suspended." Accordingly, the funds were not frozen but the procedure for the approval of the large project was discontinued. The Commission notes in its letter that it has examined the application submitted for that project and considers that the conditions of compliance with the other Community policies referred to in Article 41/1 of Regulation 1083/2006 have not been met because on 2 October 2008 the Commission imposed a preliminary procedure against the Commission on grounds of the so-called discriminatory procedure. The letter further states that the Commission will not be able to give a favourable opinion in order to ensure co-financing from the Cohesion Fund for a major project if and until the situation is regulated and appropriate conditions for the non-discriminatory use of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia are provided. In addition to this, the European Commission has also raised certain technical questions, with another letter sent by DG Regio, dated 21. 11. 2008, which are already coordinated with the beneficiary of the project, Dars. With regard to the legal basis for which you ask, I would point out the following. The 22nd point of the Council of the European Communities Regulation 1083/2006 of 11 July 2006, which I quoted earlier, provides that the activities of the Funds and the operations supported by the Funds must be consistent with other Community policies and must respect Community legislation. Thus, the Commission can theoretically suspend any allocation procedure which it considers to be inconsistent with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community. In addition to Article 41 of Regulation 1083/2006 already mentioned, the first paragraph of Article 86 of Regulation 1083/2006 provides that the European Commission may retain interim payments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for projects already approved, unless any of the conditions are met, including the condition that there is a reasoned opinion of the European Commission on the breach of Article 226 of the Treaty on European Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u56	The Honourable Minister. Thank you very much for that answer. I put it up on March 3rd. Unfortunately, your restraint took me so long to get to what you said today. However, if you have carefully read my question, the fundamental fact remains: Is there a Commission decision to retain European funds for the introduction of vignettes by signing an official member of the Commission? What you have said to me, as far as I can understand now, you have responded to a letter from an official from the European Commission requiring payment of funds if Slovenia eliminates discrimination. Madam Minister, may I remind you that at the beginning of your term you stated that "only the European Court can decide on the discrimination of guilt" - and I agree with you on that. Why, then, did the Member State not show a vertical attitude and actually initiate proceedings against the European Commission? Especially on the basis of letters from some officials. So once again, in a supplementary question, I ask you: Is there this document, even in accordance with this regulation, that you quote? I think the commission should give this official response to you, not through some intermediaries, some departments. So I would really like to ask for this answer, because I think that in this case Slovenia should immediately initiate proceedings against the European Commission. For once again - the discriminating guilt has not been proved anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u58	So, once again, I would like to reiterate that the procedure has been terminated, that it is not for the freezing decision, but for the procedure to be terminated. That's the difference, and that's what I'm trying to explain. I understand you're defending the vineyard project because it's a former government project. However, we will not get the funds until the procedure is terminated. There's nothing else special here to add. However, I have also publicly explained why our country has decided to change the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Peter Verlich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask that we hold a debate on this answer in the National Assembly. Let me just get this straight. You haven't answered the question, Your Honor. The European Commission’s view was that it had frozen the funds all the time. So I asked you about a European Commission document that freezes European funds. Now you have answered me that the European Commission has terminated the procedure, which is something else. But also, in order to terminate the procedure, the Minister-designate must be subject to the rules, the provisions must be in force, and the European Commission should respond to that and submit an official document. I'm asking: Where is this official document now? This is something similar, in my opinion, as if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were represented by the Director of the Directorate for Roads and sent around some conclusions for which the Government and ministers are responsible. I think that deserves a special question that we need to open up here. In particular, because the change in the vignette system results in harmful consequences, first for Slovenian citizens who will pay the vignettes for 73% more expensive, then, of course, it is still not clear what the Commission expects with regard to the change of this system. So, I think that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not acted as it should, it is said that it would stand firm for its views, defend its views, proceed with judicial proceedings or if a European Commission official writes a letter saying that the European Commission is terminating its decision on the means. You know what, that's not enough. This can only be concluded by the European Commission, according to procedures, by a member of the Commission who is responsible for this. I think that this is a very important issue that we must not take on board, so I suggest that this is indeed a general debate to clear up all government procedures in this particular case of introducing a change in the wine system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of transport, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 May 2009, in the framework of the vote. Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič will first answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the inclusion of OMD payments in the flat-rate calculation of assigned land subsidies, with only two minutes and ten seconds available. Two minutes and ten seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is a problem that has been going on for two years, namely payments for the implementation of agricultural policy measures. These are divided into subsidies and payments which improve the environmental relationship or further limit the possibility of profitable operations of agricultural land. One of the important agricultural policy measures is payment for a more difficult production situation, so called the OMD. These are agricultural environmental payments and the question of interpretation is whether these payments are interpreted or perceived as subsidies. In this case, they are taxed in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of taxpayers for income or, if they are considered as environmental contributions, contributions to improve the environment, in this case they are not considered subsidies. They were not directly mentioned in the law. We are going to the government next week with the initiative to include these payments in the law directly as environmental benefits that are burdened, interpreting that this year as well. Since the law was not followed, there was a lack of clarity in the interpretation. There were similar problems last year, and we're going to solve it this year. In line with the Government's conclusions and then Parliament's, I think that this issue will be fully resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič will also answer the question of the Council of Likar as regards compliance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u64	With regard to what provision?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u65	This is the question of the Council of Likar as regards compliance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. We note that the Minister is scheduled to answer this question today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u66	I propose that this be examined and that the next meeting be answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u67	So, we will certainly be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if you have this answer prepared, we will later depart from it, but if not, of course, next time. The Minister of Economy, Dr Matej Lahovnik, will answer the question of Dark Meniha regarding the alignment of the National Energy Programme with commitments such as the Kyoto Agreement and EU directives on the climate energy package or the climate energy package of directives. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear Members! The Green Paper, recently presented, begins at the Ministry of Economy with a public debate and the preparation of a new national energy programme for Slovenia. We anticipate that we will have the professional basis for a new national energy programme by the end of March 2010, followed by cross-cutting coordination. We expect such a harmonised text to go to parliamentary treatment sometime in June 2010. The Green Paper has yet to answer all the questions that we will answer in the national energy programme. However, it clearly defines the international obligations on which the renewed national energy programme must be based. The Green Paper thus states, inter alia, that we must respect Slovenia's international obligations under the Kyoto Protocol and also the EU's Climate Energy Legislative Package. The latter of Slovenia imposes a share in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the share of renewable energy sources. At the same time, we are committed to the decision of the European Council of 2007 to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 and to the directive which sets us a 9% target of improving energy efficiency by 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Menich?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Your Honor, good bye to all of you! Maybe one more thought. Project block 6 at the Heat Power Plant Šostanj is in the national energy programme. Among the inhabitants of the Shale Valley are circulating various information about the construction of block 6. Given that Block 6 will meet international energy and environmental requirements, it was rightly included in the resolution adopted in December 2006. A considerable amount of funds were invested in the investment and it would be uneconomical not to continue with a project of great importance for the Valley of Shale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u71	Please, Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor and Member of Parliament, I couldn't agree more with you. That is why all my efforts in this direction are also going to ensure the construction of Block 6. It was included, as you mentioned, in the national resolution of development projects. It should be noted that a third of the electricity comes from the Valley of jester. From this point of view, I cannot imagine some stability of energy supply in Slovenia without, in fact, this block, which is significantly more economically efficient, having a greater benefit from domestic coal from the Shaleska Valley and, of course, more environmentally acceptable, in short, construction is necessary. That's why it has to be supported. Above all, the fact that we have domestic stocks of coal, according to expert estimates by 2040, is probably even longer, which means that in the current situation, as we know, energy prices have fallen significantly because of the recession, but we know that some 80 euros per hour of electricity were already a year ago. In short, it is extremely important that we have domestic energy production available at home, because the most expensive energy is the energy you do not have and you need to import quickly. That's why I think this project is necessary. It is no secret that there is some way to improve the conditions, especially as regards procurement, equipment and the like, that this investment would be as cheap as possible, because we actually believe that the conditions for long-term supply of electricity in Slovenia can be improved, but it is crucial. That is why, of course, as Minister of the Economy, I very much agree with you that everything that is necessary must be done in order for this investment to occur and to occur. To this end, I must say, some activities have also been further carried out concerning the provision of non-financial resources. I'm counting on the investment to go somehow as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, will also answer the question of Bogdan Barovic regarding the economic situation in Slovenia. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. I understand that you are justifiably concerned, because in the last period there have also been liquidations of certain companies for which everyone would like them not to occur. Can the State, as such or the Ministry, prevent the liquidation of the company? The answer is, in fact, that it is not, on the basis of the fact that the termination of the company is carried out by the authorities of the company themselves, which is the responsibility of the shareholders who decide on it by at least a quarter of the votes of all the shareholders. In fact, when I checked whether it was possible to cut into legislation in this way, I was warned that the violation of the Constitution and the reduction of property and administrative rights under the Company Act would be an attempt in any way to prevent owners from either establishing or liquidation companies. The reasons for the legal profession are that it is a free economic initiative, which is, of course, also provided by the corresponding Article 74 of the Constitution. Of course, I must say that I am as concerned as you are, because there are also liquidations in some areas where these companies are extremely important. And as Minister of the Economy, however, I can conduct interviews with individual majority owners of the company and in some way invite them to reduce the negative effects of liquidation on employment and to act socially responsible. Such cases, as you know, also occurred at your end, in Zasavje. I also understand that from this point of view you have asked the question, because it has actually occurred that the owner of Valkarton was liquidating Pak 4, which until then produced mainly cardboard packaging. After this question that I have received, I also met with the director of the company, and I called on him to maintain as much employment as possible in the area of Kisovac, where this company is located. And I got more information. According to my information, the company has 128 employees, out of which, I was assured, 55 employees remain in the disability company. I invited them to additionally employ at least some of the employees and to ensure that out of the remaining 73, 18 employees are ready to re-employ. Among the 55 remaining then somehow redundant employees, it is prepared, so assure me, 12 people take over the Glass Hrastnik with their programs it has. I also called on them to try to minimise this effect in view of the great sensitivity of the local environment system. First of all, I'm worried that there's been annihilation in this sector. So much more so because in the last period there has also been talk about the merger of Belišta, which is owned by Valkarton and Duropak, which would have certain consequences also on the Slovenian market and will probably have to examine this link very carefully. In short, they ensure that this is due mainly to the fact that their orders have dropped between 40% and 60% in the last period and that they could practically move all production to Logatec and work there and continue with it. Once again, I can say that I asked them not to do so, because it is also necessary to act socially in times of crisis and to ensure the development of production where it was also set up at the beginning. This is in the area of Kisovac or Zasavje. I can say that as far as this is concerned, or as far as the activities so far go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr Barovic? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. I knew the minister would take it seriously because I know he's taking his actions seriously. But the point of the matter will be raised now, Mr. Secretary. I understand everything, I understand the Constitution, I understand the rights and not the rights that the Government has or does not have, but: For whom, for whom is the first package of government measures, the second package of government measures, the third package of government measures, what and to whom subsidies to compensate for part-time work, what and to whom subsidies to compensate for salary shortfalls? Well, barren, otherwise well-intentioned, but completely barren work of the government. If everyone can behave as you said, free economic choice, as you like and as you know, then it is a shame that the government is wasting time on all measures. Let the flow flow, let it stop, let it stay that way, I really don't see the point in the actions I've been respecting. Today I think it's a barren job, a waste of your time and a waste of the time of all ministers. That's my judgment. Or tell me: To whom are all three measures directed? So the third one's still coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister, would you like to answer any further questions? That was more like a comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u78	Excuse me, the question was: To whom are the package of measures intended?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u79	I stress once again, of the 128 employees, as many as were initially envisaged to lose their jobs in the worst-case scenario, we have now provided 73 jobs in the disabled company plus 18 additional employees plus 12 of us ensuring that they can still be employed by Glassarna Hrastnik. It is also said to companies such as Glass Hrastnik, who says that there can be something else to do and so on, but I agree with you in working with you that the owners in this situation should also act more socially responsible, especially in areas where this is very socially sensitive and I believe that in the field of Kisovac it will be very difficult to find any other alternatives and here I understand your concern and also your question from this point of view seems to me to be in place. As a minister, I would be happy to reach out to the ZGD as well, but I would be acting here against the Constitution if I prohibited it, and in particular this would have an impact on all other potential investors. It is true, however, that we are counting on the number of such liquidations to be reduced as much as possible by these measures that we have carried out so far. An additional problem that we are facing not only during this crisis but also before, is that in individual local communities there is often liquidation if the factory is located in an area that is, say, interesting for real estate construction and so on. I am not talking about this case because I do not know so much as a micro location, but here there are additional options specifically for local communities to provide for strict purpose in their acts - in a particular area of production alone, I am speaking now more broadly, generally because in some other areas this has happened, but that production which could have been discontinued in the long term, probably, or at least in the short term, existed for some time if it had not been in the background of motives, particularly those related to real estate construction. It is true, however, that in a time of crisis, this is less now, because of course, the crisis has affected all sectors, including the construction sector and so on. I understand the question and your concern as a Member from this area, and I think it is in place, but within my powers, I have actually done what was immediately possible and kept the number of jobs as far as possible. But I am concerned, and I have said this frankly, including these links, Belišča-Duropaka and what effect this has on the Slovenian market. Here, of course, the Office for the Protection of Competition will closely monitor the effects on competition in Slovenia, in the field of packaging production or cardboard packaging.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The Minister of Economy, Dr Matej Lahovnik, will also answer Mr Marjan Bezjak's question about corporate bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. On the question of Mr Marjan Bezjak, who asked: How many companies in the Republic of Slovenia went bankrupt since 1 January 2009 and how many employees were employed in these companies? We have obtained the following data from the JAPES, which is closely monitoring this record. During the period from 1. 1. 2009 to 31. 3. 2009 was the number of bankruptcy proceedings initiated 86, the data on employees in 2007 are only available for 74 of these business entities, as 12 did not submit annual reports. A total of 1,403 persons were employed in 74 companies. Data on the number of employees relate to 2007 because the 2008 JAPES does not yet have the data contained in the annual reports. It may also be pointed out that if additional issues are related to bankruptcys affecting proceedings or procedures, they can also further explain to you at the Ministry of Justice where they are primarily responsible for the Financial Action Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings. I'm with this information that's updated, the last that's available, that I've acquired, and I'm handing it over to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Bezjak?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. The answer is pretty bold or funny if I can look at things that way. I have to admit, are there 86 companies, including those we know to be one-man-band or up to five employees who actually put companies in bankruptcy and with new subsidies, when new companies are opened, or are these companies even more in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u84	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u85	I have given you an exact answer to the question, just as it has been asked, how many companies have gone bankrupt during this period. And I've listed the number of bankruptcy proceedings. What kind of structure? Of course, it's different companies. Given that the number, if taken into account, of 86 bankruptcy proceedings or that 1,403 people were employed in 74 companies, we can quickly calculate that these are mainly small companies. So, about 20 employees are on average, 15 to 20. That's the average number to figure out. To what extent there is now an abuse in the possible drawback of additional subsidies by the Employment Office, and I do not have this information, and you would probably be able to refer it to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because I am counting on the Employment Office to keep records of who these entrepreneurs are who put a business in bankruptcy and, or then again, set up a company and receive subsidies for newly employed workers, which is a typical example of abuse. However, I must say that the Government is not only thinking, but is preparing a novelty of this law, where for the first time, they would try to limit to the greatest extent possible such frauds. Secondly, what is even more important for this law is that the law would in some way increase the rights of creditors when initiating and carrying out bankruptcy proceedings themselves. Because in the current situation we find that bankruptcy often does not occur because it is blocked in one way or another, it would be better to do so, because employees are often then targeted that in a company that cannot survive in the long term, they do not actually receive wages and then they are a month, two or three without pay. And because the company has not formally opened bankruptcy proceedings, they cannot exercise their rights, which is the application at the Employment Institute. It is said that the acquisition of compensation and the notification of its claim in insolvency and the resulting payment from the guarantee fund. Certain changes are being prepared in this area, which are necessary. Above all, it is essential to ensure that what is not now. During the bankruptcy procedure, the company may also restructure. It is said that a new strategic partner can effectively enter and start production in that healthy part of the company. This is now very difficult because there is a whole series of procedural complications, and last but not least, for me, the problem is that essentially bankruptcy managers are determined almost randomly or in some order and irrespective of the complexity of the procedure. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Bezjak, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. This is exactly what I wanted to stress, because in fact, the funds are earmarked for the new establishment of companies for EUR 30,000. And it is those small businesses, as we would say, between 1 and 5 employees, that actually shut down or put businesses in bankruptcy and actually set up a new company, precisely because of the 30,000 euros. It is therefore important in the law to lay down - criteria and also criminal sanctions for such companies doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u88	All right, Mr. Bezjak. This was not a procedural proposal, we should make it. Since this is at the beginning of this mandate, we will tolerate this and we are looking forward to a procedural proposal. Anyway. If there are no objections, then I would suggest that Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Finance, answers Mr Council of Likar's question regarding compliance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I found this, and the question was: "How does the amendment of the Public Finance Act work in dealing with the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, with guarantees, recapitalisations, redemption of claims and entry into the business through credit activities?" Here I would add that the Ministry of Finance, through the issuance of two medium-term bonds and through its short-term capital market performance, has provided the minimum necessary funds to keep credit activity going. At the same time, the law also allowed financial institutions in Slovenia a formal request for assistance if they were in difficulty, either in liquidity or in the solvency crisis. We have prevented the liquidity crisis in the fear that the financial system would be hampered, quickly and as efficiently as possible. In the solvency crisis, however, so far there has not been any significant financial institution that could come under this law, it is said, those institutions operating under the Banking Act and in pension funds and insurance companies. If any of these institutions were to be in trouble, the law would, of course, become more effective. After six months, the interbank capital market still does not work, so the two business banks decided to apply for a state guarantee and thus obtain a more favourable opportunity to obtain loans on the interbank market, namely the Ljubljana Bank and A Bank. The Ljubljana Bank has already signed, after longer preparation and hesitation, a guarantee declaration, so it is now operating on the market. Once it has acquired the relevant investors, the guarantee will be definitively signed. But the bank is in the process of obtaining this guarantee. The process will probably run a little faster, with less hesitation, because the market situation is what it is and will not change for a while. As soon as the first of these measures actually becomes effective, it is said as soon as the first guarantee declaration is signed, we will immediately draw up an appropriate report and go to Parliament with this report. However, so far no action has been taken from this title to the end, and we have not been able to come up with the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Please, do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Greetings, Minister. But the question, if it was possible, I apologize, if I have overheared, from last month, it was not this, it was not this problem, but if you allow me to read it again and then you might answer it now or later. The oral question to Mr Križanič referred to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance, which was adopted on 19 November 2008, and entered into force the following day after its publication in the Official Journal. Article 4(3) provides that the measures adopted under the previous paragraph of the Government shall be kept informed at least every three months after the implementation of the Public Finance Act. It has been some time since the adoption of the law, and I have not seen the assembly being informed of this report. That's what I was asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u92	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. That's the same question. It is said that, until any of these measures have become operational, it is impossible to report that these measures are ongoing or that some of these measures are already in the stage of working, how it works, what the extent of the risks is. As soon as the first guarantee actually expires in the sense that it will be signed and that the money will be earned, the report will be prepared. It has now been five months, the measures have become operational on 1 January or after Christmas/new year holidays. Interested or eligible for action, whether or not to be taken, has been staggered, little to the risk of how it will be on the capital market. The country had to break through the ice on the capital market first, and we did so, and then the question was when, to what extent to be included. They are now involved, and I think the measures will also take place under these laws. However, the measures taken before them, informal measures, act and prevent the credit activity from falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. You want procedural? It's possible it's just procedural. Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Dr. Igor Lukšič, will answer the question of mag. Majde Potrate in relation to European schools. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u95	Honourable President, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Slovenia ratified the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Statute of European Schools in 2004 and thus became part of these schools. She came in this year's turn to preside over the consortium of this school. Here is also the question of the status of the Slovenian language. Slovenia has been granted the right to teach Slovenian in the system of these schools, which includes more than 30,000 pupils. Our students are enrolled in schools in Brussels 1, Luxembourg 1 and 2, Germany, and in schools in Karlsruhe and Frankfurt on Main. Slovenians are taught by students as subjects. The problem is that the number of children according to the criteria so far, which may or may be entitled to teaching a Slovenian language, is too small for a European school to provide its own language section under these criteria. So our children there do not learn Slovenian but learn Slovenian as subjects. The aim of our ministry was to try to apply Slovenian as a language section at least in the largest school, or the largest number of our children, which is in Brussels 1. We have taken this initiative, but we have not encountered the same support from our parents. Why? Because family situations are different in children, they are mixed laws of different types, then it is a question of foreknowledge of the Slovenian language, which is very different. So it's hard to find a model that fits everyone. We will continue to conduct activities in this direction and try to ensure, as far as possible and to the extent that the number of children increases, the status of Slovenian as the language of the section. With regard to the Slovenian language, the Ministry of Education and Sport has additional measures to be implemented, such as for children in Brussels, an additional Slovenian education is organised, i.e. for those who are not included in these international schools or in European schools. During the presidency, we'll have this in front of our eyes, we'll put it on the agenda. Indeed, this is a question that concerns not only Slovenia and Slovenia but all the smaller countries and all the smaller languages in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer, but allow me, when we ratified the document you spoke about in 2004, to be large and to ensure that with the teaching of Slovenian in the European school, they would not leave any doubt. The fact is, in the 1970s, it is not so easy to gather together to provide a section. And if the data that you certainly know are valid, because the data that you have been provided from the first hand, so to speak, is difficult to expect to grow interest in Slovenian in the European school. But I do not think it is necessary to find a reason for this only in different types of families, but it is also because the problem with the status of the Slovenian language in the European school is also related to the level at which students can learn the first and second languages. And given that there are 14 European schools and you listed them yourself. In addition to the Belgians in Luxembourg and Germany, the children involved in the European school in Germany probably do not acquire anything because the learning language is German in either case. What I am interested in, with all the big words we have had about intercultural dialogue during the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of Europe, is from intercultural dialogue and from what is expected to remain few to better understand cultures in Europe, and I fear that we will slowly, indeed, come to the level of inter-school and inter-school exchanges when the Slovenian language is completely gone. Last but not least about this, too. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Igor Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you for that additional question. There's never too much to worry about. And I think it's right that we're worried about what's going on with our students. But one part of the responsibility is on the parents. So if they don't choose a school for their children where the Slovenians are no longer, and they're not putting pressure in this direction, then it's hard for us to help them here. The second issue is, of course, the responsibility of the State of Slovenia, and in this case the Ministry of Education and Sport, to do everything on a systemic level to ensure that the Slovenian language receives the status we expect from the European Union. And what the Ministry does is done, and we will continue to do so. It does not seem disputed to me that these questions are being asked here, since in some ways teachers must also be motivated. In the school year 2005/2006 we had an employee of one teacher. When I was talking about preparations for the Presidency of the European School, I asked my colleagues how there was only one teacher. And they told me there was no interest. So if we want to increase the proportion of Slovenian in these schools, we need to convince parents to send children and secondly - convince teachers that they will decide to teach children in these schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Minister of Environment and Space Karl Viktor Erjavec will answer Renate Brunskole's question regarding the construction of sewage networks and cleaning plants in Slovenia by 2017 in accordance with European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, President. Thank you for asking, too. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to sewers and cleaning facilities, I must say that the EU is giving important attention to this issue and, last but not least, a lot of resources. This is one of the important environmental objectives, as we cannot achieve the environmental objectives that are also set by the European Directives without proper sewerage and without cleaning facilities. It is therefore good that we have a financial perspective for the period 2007-2013, which allocates large funds for this very purpose. The problem that is particularly raised in your parliamentary question is the question of those areas which cover a small number of people below 2,000 and where construction is very dispersed. I must say that from this Cohesion Fund, which is intended to implement an operational programme for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, it is not possible to draw these resources because they are intended for greater investments involving more than 2,000 people. However, despite this, I must say that this programme will be amended for us this year, and I am counting on the Government to adopt it in the autumn, and we will also try to set financial resources for this purpose. For example, it could come from an environmental tax and some other sources. However, I must say that if we want to implement this programme for small individual cleaning plants, at least €6 million should be allocated in 2010 to enable municipalities to implement such regulations. You also ask if it is possible to co-finance these small individual cleaning plants through public tendering. We will explore what would be the possibility, for example, of such an invitation to tender through the Eco-Fund to ensure that environmental objectives are achieved. I must say that it is from this very purpose of the Spatial Planning Act that forces concentrated construction, because we know that dispersal construction causes problems in the area of municipal equipment, because this is significantly more expensive. That is why I think that it is necessary to speed up the actual concentrated construction, because it is easier to resolve all these issues as well. It is true, however, that those who live diversified have problems because such an investment is significantly more expensive, but it is also true that Slovenia’s configuration is such that it is not possible to secure concentrated construction everywhere. For example, in Crassus we know that this is already traditional, for example, other areas such as Haloze, but they are typical areas where construction is dispersed, or in Dolenjska this is very significant. I therefore believe that this operational programme needs to be amended, resources set up, and in any way, if we are to accelerate the construction of small sewers and small individual cleaning plants here, some resources will have to be allocated in the budget. Our assessment is that we should provide €6 million annually in order to speed this up. Since the European cohesion funds I have mentioned are, therefore, intended for this financial perspective, which is intended to implement an operational programme for the removal and cleaning of municipal water waste, are intended for larger infrastructure facilities. While such resources are also available for these smaller ones, but from some other sources - for example, regional resources - and I think that also at the Ministry of Agriculture from rural development funds. European funds could also be drawn from these programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u103	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. Dear colleagues and here, both Mr. Minister of Finance, for Agriculture and Secretary-General of the Government are present. I have to say, I'm happy with your answer, but there's something I'd like to ask you. As a representative of the local community and as a member of the constituency area six, Dolenjska, White Krajina and Posavje, where I come from, I am well aware of these issues. Above all, from this point of view, which you mentioned at the end, because, on the one hand, as you mentioned earlier, Crassus, also in the Dolenjska region, the White Landscapes and the Dry Landscapes, we want to speed up or to a greater extent encourage agriculture, so that people in this way get jobs and that this curvature of these areas, at least to some extent, I know here that the Minister of Agriculture and his Ministry is also actively working to accelerate this matter so that it would not be so, but, because life and today's standard, requires us, the inhabitants and also the environment, which I think is also one of the most important points and moments at European level - which certainly means that we are also following European directives. That's why I'm interested: Will we be able to follow these six million a year at the level of the state and local communities, and so on? On the contrary: Could it be possible to allocate funds more quickly from several different calls - possibly even more ministries within the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Please answer, Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thanks for the extra question. I must say, with regard to these six million, whether they can be provided in the 2010 budget, this will be a matter of macroeconomic analysis of the financial sustainability of our budget, and certainly also depending on the decision of the Minister of Finance sitting here before me. As far as these European funds are concerned, we are obliged to complete all these investments by 2013. Until then, all applicable licences must be issued, or these funds will fall, but if the usable permit is issued, we can settle these financial situations by 2015. However, I must say that the new European Parliament will start a debate on what the next financial perspective will be. This is said, for the period 2013 to 2018 and 2020 respectively - depending on what the decision will be. It is likely that this environmental objective will have to be pursued in order to start equipping so-called secondary waters, those that go from the primary to the houses. Because here's the problem. In this financial perspective, we have funds for these primary waters or for these primary networks, while to the house this is a matter of state or local community. Perhaps, in the next financial perspective, especially where we see that this is an uneven development - and this we also have everywhere in Slovenia, including in other Member States - that when we negotiate this within the European Union so that such programmes can be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I therefore turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members, ongoing questions. Zvonko Černač will raise a question of the delegation to the Secretary-General of the Government and to the Minister of Defence. Please. The Secretary of Defense is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u107	I think the Secretary-General of the Government will be able to answer my questions competently. Last week we heard the Minister of Defense's announcement about the government falcon that the falcon is returning to its nest. It's not exactly an accurate forecast. It will be difficult for him to return to his nest because, in truth, he never had it in Slovenia. Not one day, not an hour in the last five years since the birth of the da Falcon has been in Slovenia. It is true, however, that the falcon is returning to its former masters, who, as we hear it, do not want it again and have for almost half a year been wise about what to do with it. At that time, however, there were so much unnecessary costs that they could easily cover the total savings not only for the Prime Minister of the Government but for the entire Ministerial Assembly, 10 not for the 1st term of office. Six years ago, the falcon was purchased for $35 million instead of its originally planned brother, whose price was $42 million. Apparently, we also had the LDS government bent on saving back then. Then the government's helm was taken over by the current Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Rob. The public was disgusted, so another wrong decision fell. The falcon has been leased for five years and $125.000 a month or in five years we have received about as much rent as was paid from the budget only interest for it. That's about $7 million. Apparently, he's going to the third, because we're getting close to the third wrong decision. It has been six months since the announcement of the current Prime Minister of the Government that the Falkona Treaty has ceased and we have finally awaited the Government's decision on its further application. However, the aircraft still stands somewhere abroad. Injured. Only a minor repair will be worth a million and a half euros. At a time when the Falcon did not fly, when the President of the State, the Ministry and the other budgetary users hire expensive aircraft for the summers, high costs are paid, damage is done, all of which will be paid by taxpayers. So I'm wondering: When will the Falcon actually land in Slovenia, and how much will the total costs owed to taxpayers for the period since the lease ended and until the Falcon lands in Slovenia? I also want to know: How much are the total costs of air transport carried out by the Government, the Ministry, the President of the State and other budgetary users from 21 November 2008 to today? In this connection, I am interested in the list of the five most expensive individual transports of these users during the same period. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u108	Please, Secretary General of the Government, mag. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Of course, in this mandate, we will, obviously, either have a lot of debate on the question or a lot of debate with the falcon. Yes, the government aircraft is currently in the United States, garaged, secured, as are hundreds of aircraft that are simply no longer flying during the economic crisis. First of all, as former Member of Parliament and as Secretary-General of the Government, I have to say that, by surprise at the handover with the former Secretary-General, I have learned that, in early December, the option of a provider or an existing aircraft user will be exhausted. I took this with regret because it is known to everyone not to take advantage of the time of the conjuncture for either the aircraft sold in the previous term or extended the lease or anything done to it, as it seems to the Member of the current opposition, the then coalition, more meaningful, of course, but within a few weeks it is impossible to do so. However, the government has taken this problem seriously. We've done an economic analysis, actually, of what to do with this plane. I think it's only right for us to say something to this council first. In fact, there are three options: two options are whether the aircraft wants to be owned by the Republic of Slovenia and one option is that the aircraft is not owned by the Republic of Slovenia. If the time of the conjuction was still a time when it would make sense, if you thought it was an irrational decision to have a plane of its own when the plane could be sold, unfortunately the time of the financial economic recession is that of course the plane could not be sold under someone, let's say at least a replacement price. Therefore, the Government of the Third Option, that is, that the aircraft is not retained under the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia under the circumstances, has not accepted. The government has therefore decided and decided between two options. Both options relate to the fact that the aircraft is held in the possession of the Republic of Slovenia because of the global aviation market and the global economic crisis, which reduces the demand for such an aircraft, because of the fact that it cannot be sold rationally. If it is held by the Republic of Slovenia, there are two sub-options: one is to bring the aircraft to Slovenia and to use it for state purposes. But here we face again the problem of rationality. An aircraft like this can fly for 800 hours a year. However, the State needs for two years, as shown by a public invitation to tender by the Ministry of Public Administration, show that for two years 2009 and 2010, the Government must hire different aircraft with seats of up to 20 seats, over 20, for a circus of 600 hours. Such a tender shall be concluded these days, whereby two tenderers will sign a contract with the Ministry of Public Administration or offer air services for aircraft over 20 and planes below 20 persons with very competitive prices. That's why we decided not to use the plane for state purposes, but to rent this plane. And last week, the government adopted provisions on the conditions that we will look for tenderers who are willing to take this plane after the method of public tendering. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Depending on these offers, we will decide on the next steps.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u111	The Secretary-General was surprised to have received a plane whose lease ended in February this year and manipulated and wanted responsibility, in accordance with the old practice, to transfer to someone else. And I'm not surprised he hasn't answered any of my questions. All the questions I repeated today at the meeting of the National Assembly were announced on Friday. So I'm asking: When will Falcon actually land in Slovenia? How much will the total cost owed to taxpayers for the period since the lease ended and until the Falcon lands in Slovenia? I would also like to ask: How much are the total costs of air transport carried out by the Government, the Ministry, the President of the State and other budgetary users from 21 November 2008 to today? I am also interested in the list of the five most expensive individual transports of these users during the same period. I did not get an answer to these questions, which I asked correctly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. About the termination of the contract. Mr Cvikl was on a committee where he took note of all the documentation, during this documentation, which he made clear, there is also a contract which is clear and signed by the Government of Rob in 2004 for five years and which made it very clear how the broadcast and early cancellation of such an aircraft is. The contract terminated on the aircraft in February and the tenant decided, in accordance with the contract, that the lease would no longer continue. The one who leased the planes to him didn't have this right under that contract, as signed by the then-Rop government. That's what the contract was from back then. Please answer my questions I have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u112	Here you go, Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u113	Mr. Honourable Member, without alarm. You will also get an answer to these questions as to how much has been spent by the Ministry so far. It is crucial that, from this government's appearance to this day - what is relevant to this issue - there have been very few airline rentals. Ministry of Foreign Affairs: one aircraft, three persons, total price of €2483, i.e. €800 per person. Ljubljana-Tel Aviv-Ljubljana €4888 divided by 2 for two persons - 2400. Luxembourg - 5,500.6 people divided by €6 - 900. All prices are lower than the market price for an hour of flying with falcon, which is between 4000 - during depression - and 5500 during the conjuncture. Therefore, it is also true that the aircraft that this government leased, given the number of people who travel, and according to the price, we rented them cheaper than if we had falcon already here. Falcon costs a month: insurance, which would in any case be - for hangars and taxis - and amounts to €6,600 per month, and parking, which is €5,500. Why did we decide to hang out or park a plane in America? Because this is an international invitation to tender and because there is a market for such an aircraft, and it is likely that we will get an appropriate offer from there, it is greater than if an aircraft had already been brought to Slovenia and, for example, offered only here. What's the offer? It's hard to say. However, I believe that according to the adopted individual programme for the management of real property in accordance with the regulation on real estate of countries, landscapes, municipalities adopted in the past, after such an aircraft has once been purchased, of course, we will get different offers. During these offers, it will be necessary to decide and, in particular, to bite into this sour apple - or to bring the plane to Slovenia, or eventually to lease it to one of the domestic carriers, which would mean that it can also be used by state officials, or that the plane will still be a falcon child who will be a foreign vehicle of another. I'm sorry, as I said before, that I was on top of all this by the former Secretary-General of the Government without any prepared analysis. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Acquainted practically a few days before the expiry of the contract. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Montenegro's procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u115	Yes, I regret to say that, even in my second attempt, I have not been able to find out on my question of departure. I requested information on five transports. I got three. I don't know where the 89 000 euros in Bosnia's president of the country blew up. Therefore, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the next meeting discuss the answer to my question. We've heard that garages will cost us, along with all the other costs of a non-functioning aircraft, about $100,000. When we bring him to Slovenia, we will have to pay a tax of EUR 5 million or a circus of $7 million. We have heard that a decision has not yet been made whether to bring him or not. As I recall the reports of the last government meeting last week on Thursday, it was clear and unequivocally stated there: Falcon is coming to Slovenia, the invitation will be issued on 22 May. Tenders will be collected by 15 June. Does this not seem like a short time for such a story? Are they already known? Any idea who's flying this plane in the future? There are quite a few ministers in the government who like to fly to "shopping" with these and other chartered planes. All of this raises my suspicion that it will not be an economic decision, but another type of non-economic decision that goes to the detriment of taxpayers, both in 2003 and in the time of the Government of Rob in 2004 and today. That's why I want to know: What has been done on this issue regarding the exercise of responsibility? We hear that the current Minister of the Interior is effective in researching some butterflies, and it is not the devil that she will not show her ambition to explore this issue. In the case of falcon, no government, on the basis of a contract that could not be terminated by the government, has been so written as to be interrupted by only those who leased the aircraft, which was concluded at the time of the Government of Rob, at least $14 million or about as much as is currently worth falcon after some independent opinions. But the question is, is the new authority's criteria enough to investigate? If there were any brooms missing from it, then you would certainly have witnessed a broad police investigation, under the watchful eye of the competent minister. Don't you think anyone would dare to stop such an important investigation? After five years of disappearing the entire falcon, indeed that five years of use, and taking into account the fact that who participated in this disappearance is a big question given the newly established maximum on the legal path that is the only right path - depending, of course, on who followed it. Are we ever going to get accurate data on how much this Falcon actually cost us? All of us taxpayers. In view of what I have heard today, I strongly doubt and therefore propose that we hold a debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Cernač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government to his question of the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 May 2009, in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Bogdan Barovic will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you. We Slovenians are the ones who very often drive on Slovenian roads, which, I must say, have become real highways in a relatively medium time. After the introduction of vignettes when the toll stations are crossed, stopping for vignette vehicle holders is no longer mandatory. It's a limited speed, 40 kilometers an hour, and traffic is supposed to be more flowful. But when traffic is a guest, that's not the case. More and more, at least the records, of accidents in this area are known. Dear Minister, I ask you on behalf of all Slovenians and Slovenians clearly, briefly and solely: How will the Ministry improve the safety and flow of road traffic across toll stations on highways? It's been a while since the introduction of vinjets. Question number two: When will the toll houses that have been cut off for a year, and perhaps a little longer, be no longer in use? And the third question, which is about -- I'm talking about Slovenians and Slovenians, who like to travel through our beautiful country. In what way should the Ministry ensure that the reconstruction of Slovenian motorways takes place faster? Rather, it means less disturbing for participants in transport, and perhaps also in line with the European standards that many like to refer to. To compare or illustrate this issue. In many countries in the European Union, renovations are taking place, which are agreed and determined, 24 hours a day. Not with us! Slovenians and Slovenians say it would be good to restore roads 24 hours a day, especially because the hours are set when traffic is not much and work is faster. It is said that representatives of one of your services would say that the highway can not be restored 24 hours a day because they would do the job too quickly and they would not have anything to do. It's supposed to be official media coverage. I hope that's not the case. Three short and clear, big questions, and I won't be answering later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to the flow of traffic at toll stations after the introduction of the vignette system, a study was made by the Transport and Technical Institute of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana. On the basis of this study, it was found that traffic on toll roads would be significantly increased by 5 to 10 times at the expense of introducing tolling with vignettes. Last year it has been shown that the actual flow at these toll stations is good that there are no more congestions than before when, especially during the tourist season, sometimes the congestion was after hours. That the flow here is good, there are also responses from the Automobiles Section that do not complain about these congestions. In addition, we have introduced ABC cargo vehicle cards, and for them, at least for one of the trucks, also increases the flow for them. We are aware that there are small congestions at morning peaks, otherwise they are significantly shorter than in the past. This is how we think about introducing additional lanes in these areas. During the tourist season, we expect the situation to be the same as it was last year. There will be no major congestions, but there could be fewer toll stations. This is, for example, Ljubljana Log; and this is just a few weekends when the most tourists will be on vacation. After last year's experience, we can also ensure that, if congestion occurs, these will be significantly shorter than in previous years, when waiting periods were at certain toll stations, as I mentioned earlier, for several hours. Let us stress that road traffic on toll roads has increased with the introduction of vignettes. Data on traffic along motorways or by toll stations Dars monitors and analyzes. There is a noticeable change in traffic following the introduction of vignettes in July last year and varies according to the different motorway legs. Gorenjski krak - total traffic has increased significantly, including over 70%, following the introduction of vinjets and the opening of the Šentvid tunnel. Here freight traffic represents only 6% of total transport, so it does not cause any problems. Styrian short - the total turnover increased over 40% after the introduction of the vignette. The cargo here represents 21% of total traffic, which means slower decoupling of traffic through this section within certain deadlines. Poet, Styria’s Leg - common traffic has increased several times after the introduction of vinjet, and a greater increase has been observed outside the summer season. Then the lower leg - section Dob - total traffic also increased more than 30% after the introduction of vinjets. Then the sea leg - Log - total traffic also increased more than 10% after the introduction of vinjets. Total traffic data for last fall are currently not available for the purpose of redesigning the station. Then the coastline - total traffic here increased more than 20% after the introduction of vinjets. A greater increase in traffic was observed during the summer of last year, which can also be seen as an impact of the introduction of vignettes. From all these data, we can conclude that traffic on the motorway has increased due to vignettes, mostly on the legs where avoiding toll stations has been the most. In some cases, traffic growth is also due to newly built sections of motorways and buildings on them, such as the Šentvid tunnel. Thus, the introduction of vignettes meant moving traffic flows to motorways where traffic safety is greater and, of course, we have unloaded other roads, which is not necessarily in all cases; this means, for example, that at the sea end, there are many circumventions of toll roads when guests come from Italy and are looking for by-roads and state roads are much more burdensome than they used to be. We also have a few other cases similar to those at the stable end. So it's a two-way sword, which is what happened to this traffic from one to the other. In these above observations, we need to take into account that the data provided are for six toll stations which give a good insight into traffic data on all motorways. With this increase in traffic, I must stress that the number of accidents has decreased following the introduction of vineyards and the adjustment of the transport regime at toll stations. In the past, the main reason was the intertwining of traffic flows. This isn't here anymore. With a view to ensuring the greatest possible presence of traffic, it would be ideal if, at the time of the introduction of the vignettes, the central toll stations could be demolished, the pillars removed, the roofs removed. This, unfortunately, is not yet feasible for a simple reason [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u121	I would therefore like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the second question: When are the toll houses to be removed, or were they to be removed? When and in what way are Slovenian motorways to be restored in accordance with European standards? Or, in other words, 24 hours a day, as fast as possible, less disturbing?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u122	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u123	In order to ensure as much accuracy as possible, it would be ideal for these toll stations to be removed as quickly as possible. The problem is, of course, that this is not feasible in a short period of time and is not feasible at low cost because these toll stations need to remain due to freight vehicles for the time being. It is also necessary to produce appropriate technical documentation, to carry out procurement procedures for the award of works. Building intervention does not just mean removing the cabins themselves. These were mostly removed on the midways due to increased visibility. The problem is, of course, that this part of these cabins needs to be completely reconstructed. The entire road section, drainage and everything else should be reconstructed. This whole infrastructure part is built so that it is not suitable directly for use when removing these cabins themselves. Thus, the former government set a time limit when it would do so, and then she saw that this would not be so easy. Realistically, we anticipate - of course, from a cost point of view, it would be completely unreasonable to remove this station and, in principle, we will tackle it when introducing free traffic flows or tolls in the free traffic flow. Until then, this could be very expensive and very ineffective. As far as recovery is concerned. Restoration is a nasty thing, but it has to be. My demands are that it be renewed 24 hours a day. My demands are that the workers are there on the construction site when it's done. Of course, I was taught that when something was dry, there was no one there to do it. That's how sometimes there's gonna be a section without the workers. But the fact is, I'm going to be trying to make it work all day, when it's possible, visibly, and at night what's possible. These will also be in the references for manufacturers of priority points. It is said: short deadlines, implementation will be a priority reference. Some contracts have been signed before, and maybe these warnings haven't reached Darsa, but my position is quite clear: if possible - 24 hours a day, otherwise - as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. I am asking about the problem of the rehabilitation of wild waste landfills in Slovenia. Of course, I am particularly interested in this issue in Ljubljana, in its surroundings. If I am specific - in the Jarski sale in Ljubljana. This Ljubljana aquifer, which, according to research, still has the highest quality water in landfills, has been solved according to my data for at least 10 years. As an example: in this very small area there are more than 150 wild landfills; on 30,000 square metres there are more than 10,000 cubic metres of waste, mainly of construction, as well as asbestos panels, tires and so on. At times, batteries are also found. For years and years, the local congregation worked hard, and I know that I was just involved in the process of being rehabilitated. The urban budget has also been allocated several times. I know for myself the year 2001, 2002, 2006, 2007, but because there is a need for a comprehensive rehabilitation on land that is partly privately owned, partly municipal, but mostly state-owned, never come to this rehabilitation and this wound is growing and will in the future poison this good water that is here below. I ask: What is the Ministry doing in this area? For example, how many inspection decisions have been issued in this area, as well as in the wider area of Ljubljana or Slovenia, for the unjustified disposal of waste? I'm also interested in the number of inspectors involved. I would also like to know if any criminal charges have been filed against the perpetrators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Before I give the Minister my word, I would like to tell you that I understood your question in such a way that what you said - about this local case - was only an example of what was happening, but you are interested in the whole of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u127	Dear Member, thank you for asking. With regard to statistics, I propose that we send them to you in writing, how many of these procedures there are and how many decisions have been made, because I did not receive this in your question, but it was a question of how to deal with wild landfills, and you are particularly interested in Jaški prod. I must say that in this area the legislation we have in Slovenia is fully in line with the European legislation, because this is what the Directives are forcing us to do. The problem is, of course, that we do not respect this legislation. I must say that there is no need to waste the nature of construction materials and other municipal waste because local communities have special places where people can put it away. We believe that the problem is the lack of awareness of people. For example, we have 480 wild landfills in the Ljubljana Bar alone. And it's totally unnecessary! Under European law, and also under our legislation, we enforce the principle that the polluter pays. However, in these matters, the problem is that the situation is underway; many times it is a postponement that happened years ago. I'm not saying he's not here today either. You yourself mentioned that for 10 years you have been dealing with the problem of wild disposal on the Jarski prod. I must say, in this particular case, the inspection has reacted several times, but the problem is that we cannot determine who caused it. Under our legislation, however, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space to regulate these matters, unfortunately, in the local community, which does not mean that the Ministry of Environment and Space is now seeking to remove its responsibilities. I must say that we also had a discussion with the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana on this subject, but the problem is the provision of funds. Somehow, it is estimated that only the Ljubljana area would need €13 million to rehabilitate all these areas. I must say that the mayor and I have agreed that certain funds should be allocated to the 2010 budget. I hope your help to at least provide some means to start with these activities, of course, together with the congregation. But I must say that this is a general problem in Slovenia. Just on Saturday she ran in Maribor action Discovering packs in nature, along with the newspaper house Evening. And I must say, even in Maribor there are over 600 wild landfills. However, I would appeal from this city to all people not to waste construction material and other waste in nature, because there is no need, since municipalities have organised places where such waste can be disposed of, and this is free of charge, except transport. Ljubljana also has a specific place for this. We intend to work here more on promotion, awareness-raising, especially in schools. Of course, inspectors, where the perpetrator can be discovered that they are also being punished - you know the case in Luka Koper, where the landfill has also been discovered. It was all of a sudden self-evident that the state was paying for it, but luckily we knew who the cause was there. Therefore, he will also have to pay all the costs for the rehabilitation of that landfill. This is how I count on your support for the 2010 budget, so that we can also allocate some resources to the rehabilitation of wild landfills and perhaps to raise awareness among people, especially young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister without a resource responsible for development and European affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. First of all, I have a problem because one of the ministers to whom I ask the question is not and has not apologized. This is relatively unusual - but whatever. The lending activities of Slovenian banks are still important for the effective fight against the crisis, so that companies can work better, make it easier to carry out their investment and other activities. The so-called credit crunch, when companies are unable to obtain loans, and cannot at all obtain favourable loans, is not defeated in Slovenia. We have previously heard from the Minister of Finance that, in fact, it has not yet been possible to issue guarantees to banks for borrowing interbank loans that could provide fresh capital for this lending. There is little activity through the Slovenian Export Company and these Parabank institutions. So I'm sure that without the activities of commercial banks in this area, there won't be much. So, I must say, in dealing with these measures, the Government is relatively ineffective. Moreover, in recent times we have also been pursuing attempts to make these so-called bad investments by banks in some way recover over taxpayers' shoulders. One of these poor investments is also called tycoon loans. These are loans, both to natural and legal persons for the purpose of managers' purchases, and now part of these loans from Slovenian banks are among the risky investments and, of course, the banks have to put some of this on the shoulders of taxpayers. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: Is it true that you will insist, at all costs, that the reprogramming of so-called tycoon loans is also financed by state guarantees? Indeed, we have seen that, both in the Guarantee Scheme Act and in the Public Finance Act, it is possible to see that the reprogrammes of these loans are possible. And not only is it that something quickly reaches them, because it is intended to be approved by the Supervisory Board after previous analyses. Secondly, I also ask the Minister responsible for development: Did he, in particular, participate in the fact that Banka Slovenije also has two liabilities in its portfolio of Leman Brothers in total nominal value of EUR 38 million? I ask: Who and how did these bonds come about? Who's responsible for their purchase? Who's going to pay for that bad decision? Because we know this is a failed investment. And: Who will be responsible for this?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u130	Mr. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I can answer the first question. I don't know the answer to the question about Leman Brothers. Slovenia has come into a financial and economic crisis in relatively good condition with some major shortcomings. One of the important weaknesses or weaknesses we have encountered was the high exposure of Slovenian business banks to the interbank market. So, essentially, and this is the last four years before this government's appearance, the banks have committed themselves to the international banking market and borrowed a lot more money than they have collected with deposits. In this way they became vulnerable and this vulnerability was so great, it was worth several billion euros that it also became a question of stability in the functioning of the Slovenian financial system. The placement of these loans has also been problematic in the last four years. Most of these loans were paid for manager buy-ins or so-called Taiwanese buy-outs of companies or Slovenian citizens, as well as some foreign citizens for some major purchases. This has exacerbated the resilience of our system to stress. We have analysed this in the previous period in other functions, when I was in the strategic world, as one of the great risks. This risk was then realised. We've dealt with him in a number of ways, as I mentioned. The first was the short-term issuance of treasury coins and the corresponding acquisition of European Central Bank funds to ensure sufficient liquidity of the financial system; then by breaking the ice on the international financial market by issuing two sovereign bonds and now running a third round, namely the issue of the largest bank bonds and the issue of Slovenian Export Development Company bonds. In doing so, we have ensured that credit activity has increased. The structure of this credit activity is said, in particular, to finance small and medium-sized enterprises and to finance the population and to be able to handle them have not been favourable. This is how we are going now with a guarantee scheme from banks to the economy, we are presenting it in the final version of Brussels tomorrow - we hope to receive approval from the Directorate of Competitiveness - and that we can start the first auction at the end of the week or the Slovenian Export Development Company will move forward with this auction and then the viability of this credit activity will improve. In order to support the passive side of this project, we will send before this High Council a proposal for amendments to the Public Finance Act, in which we will also allow one part of the Treasury's or public finances to be extended to three years. More about when it's on the agenda. As far as loans are concerned, the legal regulation is now such that not only those funds obtained by nature from State aid or State actions, but also all the remaining funds in the institutions receiving such aid, must not be allocated either for the extension or approval of new Taiwanese loans, directly for the purchases or related persons of managers. We expect that to happen. However, since the volume is so large, it is a multibillion euro loan, it was a process that has escaped from control - not to us, but to our valued predecessors - we will simply be forced to organise special activities in the purchase and slow sale of these shares in order not to result in a major stock break. This is also being done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u133	The Minister of Finance also replied as if the previous President of the Government or the previous Government had managed Slovenian banks. However, we know that, until recently headed by the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Marijan Kramer, was a close associate of leaders and also responsible leaders of the governments of the Liberal Democracy, and this was also a reward for him. So all these so-called tycoon loans were granted by the administration. Even past the decisions of the Supervisory Board, for on the supervisory board of each bank, such a decision comes only above a certain threshold. And also the answer - that a few billion, as has been observed - is diametrically deviates from the Bank of Slovenia report, which says that this is €753 million. That's why I'm curious, Minister, how did you get this information? Please be specific and tell which domestic legal and physical or foreign legal and natural persons have been assigned such things? For this is of great interest to us, for the Bank of Slovenia obviously does not have it. I am also surprised that you know nothing about the fact that the Bank of Slovenia portfolio also includes two bonds issued by Leman Brothers Holdings with a total nominal value of €38 million. These are also the official data of the Bank of Slovenia, which we have Members, and the Government does not. This is actually very interesting in dealing with you with these, and this probably comes from when Mr Gaspari, current minister, was at the head of the Bank of Slovenia. And now the personal responsibilities of individuals are clear and more than evident here. These eighty million euros will have to be settled, and I ask: who. Once again: Will you insist, Mr. Finance Minister, that it will not be possible to use the funds of banks and public guarantees or guarantees of the state for a re-programme of Taliban loans in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u134	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you for the good question. If I start from the back: of course I also know that part of the central bank's plasma went to toxic credits. The way they were approved and the responsibility of individuals is not known to me. As far as the last piece is concerned, of course, I will insist - and the ministry - on the fact that any state aid will not be paid for, macroeconomically, unnecessary loans for the purchases of businesses. We have also extended this measure, as it is said, in such a way that not only those funds obtained in this way, but also the institution that will receive this aid will no longer be able to seal itself with this. That's how I think this project is going to work. The problem that I have mentioned to this extent is mentioned in recent information from the Bank of Slovenia, when we have watched or imagined what effect this measure will have on the so-called tycoon loans or credits for the domestic purchase of businesses. At that time, the bank gave a series showing very large amounts, with a maturity of around €5 billion by 2012, in total. How did such an amount come about, why did this project become so big? Firstly, due to the availability of capital and, secondly, due to the project, the withdrawal of the country from the economy where the entire stakes in the packages were offered and then the administrations began to organise redemptions. However, they bought by primarily caring for the increase in their own assets. This is obvious, if not, for all owners, they would try to change the financing structure to a greater extent, first into debt capital and then back to equity, but for those owners who want to stay in the company. This was not the case in this direction, but it was in the direction that larger groups started to acquire larger shares, and they succeeded somewhere else, and they got into trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Vizjak, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u137	Yeah, sure. I would also suggest that a broader discussion be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Why? Because the Minister of Finance didn't convince me in his performance. I simply asked him whether he would insist and whether the Ministry of Finance would insist on preventing the reprogrammes of these so-called tycoon loans with State guarantees or through banks owned by a majority of the state. He didn't say yes. He didn't answer either: no. I expected a clear answer that we wouldn't let that happen. Indeed, the Government of the present, at least as it may be heard, is in favour of actually preventing the continuation of this story, which has proved to be negative. I support that, too. However, when we received the amendment of the Law or amendment of the Guarantee Scheme Act last week, we saw in there the provision that a reprogramme of Taiwanese loans might be possible under certain conditions. And then luck came to the adoption of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to throw it out, the minister was visibly inconclusive and I expect this solution to come through the coalition amendment back into the legal text. I was therefore interested in the minister's position on this issue and was not clear. The proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act also go in this direction in order to enable the same provision. So to allow these so-called tycoons to bring the story forward despite the crisis. They took their own risks, and the banks took their own risks when they went into this business. They calculated that there would be constant growth, that it would be easy to finance through cash flow companies, and they counted. And I see no reason why the state would now assist them and help solve their problem. I don't see why! That's why I think it would be right if this didn't happen. And it was simply my question, to which unfortunately there was no clear answer. This ignorance that I have also addressed the question to the Minister responsible for development, who has not even apologized or is not here to answer me, is more than an obvious sign of the Government's attitude towards these problems. Because my fellow Member, Jože Tanko, also asked the Prime Minister of the Government about the toxic investments of the Bank of Slovenia. Everyone acted ignorantly and then received a letter from the Bank of Slovenia that, of course, it had such toxic investments of EUR 38 million. I wonder: Who is responsible for paying for this in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. The vision that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question of the Member State will be decided tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 May, in the framework of the vote. The next Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the Minister. Look, Minister, in recent years, we have seen truly enviable economic growth in Slovenia. This growth has been greatly contributed by small craftsmen who have developed into companies that are already employing 100 or more workers today, but unfortunately many are already shrinking at this point. In addition, these entrepreneurs have in the past created a truly good environment and conditions for the successful establishment of new small enterprises. As any entrepreneur has a goal of developing, these entrepreneurs could most likely become entrepreneurs who are well-employed. I have to say, in my environment, my constituency, these entrepreneurs form a far-reaching business. We could say "over the finger" to 1,200 employees. In these circumstances, these entrepreneurs invested in development, the acquisition of equipment, the construction of economic facilities, the creation of conditions for further growth. It's all right here. Then comes the crisis; the crisis that has escalated in the world, and I must say that we have contributed a lot at home as well. Work wasn't worth it, speculation, and today we're here where we are. As a result of this situation, these entrepreneurs today, because growth has fallen, no longer have the resources to regularly service loans. They do have reverse assets, but if they want to be active, they need these funds. These funds are used to pay off credits, and this is simply slowing down their growth again. At the initiative of these entrepreneurs, Mr. Minister, I ask you: What are the chances of allowing these entrepreneurs to recover their loans? For example, for two years. This would improve their liquidity, allow them to resume entrepreneurship and make it easier for them to do business or even do business. We're not going to give this to these entrepreneurs. Only time would be given to them, and at that time they would certainly be well prepared for further action. So, what are the real chances that this matter will live in the way I speak? And of course, we must be aware that this will also reduce the liquidity of banks, but in this case the guarantee scheme should play its role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I agree with you that the segment of small and medium-sized enterprises is also crucial for the future economic development of Slovenia. As far as your proposal or question is concerned, I must say that in this case, no country is actually using such a systemic measure, which would apply to all businesses. However, I must say that what I think is crucial and what we have done is a general guarantee scheme that is ready and where the Ministry of the Economy has worked closely with the Ministry of Finance in order to achieve a positive impact on the availability of funds for businesses. As you know, there is a possibility under this scheme that companies, not only for A and B, but also for the C class, will apply under this scheme for new additional loans that will bring new liquid assets to the economy up to EUR 1.2 billion. In the Government, of course, we are also determined if the banks do not apply for auctions and through this ensure fresh capital, that this role will be assumed by the SID Bank, which is 100% state-owned. I also agree to some extent with the idea that banks have so far not actively supported them in all cases of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially since there is a situation in which individual entrepreneurs, under the condition that they are reprogrammed, raise their interest rate. I also have letters myself, which are written by the entrepreneur from around Dravograd, that his bank has raised from EURIBOR +1.7 to EURIBOR +2,6, which is, of course, an additional financial shock, given that EURIBOR is rising, the real basis for the interest rate has been reduced, and his orders have also been reduced. That is why, at the Ministry of the Economy, we have made some early calls for funds from the European Structural Funds, which constitute an additional liquidity impulse specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me give you an invitation to co-finance the purchase of new technology equipment for small and medium-sized enterprises with one or more employees, where 35 million funds are available. We received 491 applications by the deadline for the submission of applications. There is also a call for direct incentives for joint development investment projects, where €50 million is available. We received 68 applications by the deadline for the broadcast. What I would like to point out in particular is a key fact. Given that banks, especially in that first phase of the crisis, have not responded adequately, we have decided to provide additional EUR 43 million of credit guarantees through the Slovenian enterprise fund, which is 100% state-owned, on the basis of which small businesses are more easily able to obtain credit. Above all, what's essential. We have also provided €7.6 million to subsidise the interest rate. As I said, the problem is not only that entrepreneurs often find it difficult to get credit, but the problem is that these loans are becoming more expensive because passive interest rates have also increased significantly to save in Slovenian banks. As a result, this has an impact on the costs of corporate indebtedness. So in any way, this segment you are referring to is a key developmental importance. Most of the measures are also intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, it has also shown in Slovenia's development so far that they have far the most innovative potential. An additional measure, which is also important and in some ways means an increase in accumulation, is also, of course, an additional tax relief that the National Assembly has adopted specifically for small enterprises in this mandate. As you know, it is an investment relief where entrepreneurs can take advantage of a 30% relief from invested funds. S.P.'s unlimitedly practical. This is a relief for investments in equipment and intangible long-term assets, except for certain types of motor vehicles. It is also an option in the d.o.s., where this limit is limited to EUR 30,000, which is mainly intended for small businesses. In these actions I agree with you here, it is crucial that this liquidity spasm weakens. As I said, we have combined various measures to this end. However, the moratorium itself is, of course, a measure that I must say so far to be a general measure, has not actually been implemented in any country. But they're trying this way, like us, with these measures that I've just mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u143	Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer. I also see that a lot of measures have been taken and everything has been taken. But these things don't work. I'm asking you, what do we do? These entrepreneurs have turned to me. One of them must be following this debate. And this entrepreneur is in this cramp when he exports knowledge, exports unique products, does things they can't or can't do in the West. But last year, the gentleman got the equipment. There's no liquid assets at the moment. When he goes to the bank to get credit, things like this happen to him. I have the feeling that when the government is doing very well, the subsystems are either secreting or not taking steps or helping all of us. What can you do to make this cramp break down and finally begin to help these people? All we have heard now is that a small craftsman has no time, not knowledge, after such a great deal of activity, to ensure these matters. While he has to work very hard at home at the workshop and ensure all these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u144	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr Member, for the supplementary question. In this particular case, there are two options that are thus considered. One is that the entrepreneur may not know this measure under the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Thus, it can obtain a guarantee, an additional guarantee, through which it is possible to make it significantly easier to borrow from business banks. The second option, however, is a general guarantee scheme under which companies can compete with banks for additional funding sources. A general guarantee scheme, which is, of course, a measure for which everyone here would probably be pleased to have already been adopted and would have worked. We can also take criticism so that the Government can accelerate this measure here. But the fact is that it was delayed mainly because of the veto that was adopted by the State Council, as you recall, and then the whole procedure in the National Assembly was reversed. When this measure comes to life and here I actually agree with you that at the end of the month it is kind of a deadline where an appropriate auction must actually be made through the SID of the bank, it is also an opportunity for all these small entrepreneurs to actually participate in this auction and thus get fresh funding sources. However, I absolutely agree with you that this is currently a rather pressing problem and, above all, the fact that the credit crunch has not yet given way. The data published regularly by Banka Slovenije also clearly show that banks are not active enough to support especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The main problem is where they were in debt because of certain investments, and of course when the recession came, it was much more difficult to finance. And the only way to get rid of such things is by using some new credit, substitution, essentially reprogrammed in such specific cases. In fact, this is also the purpose of the State Guarantee Scheme Act, where it is the idea to help small businesses through this instrument and, as I said, the instruments of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. I ask the Minister of Transport: When do you anticipate the completion of the Slovenian motorway cross?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u148	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. On the main highway cross are the following sections in construction: Pluska-Ponikve-Grastje, in addition to 15 kilometres on the lower motorway lane near Trebnje; reconstruction of section Peračica-Podtabor, after a length of 2.4 kilometres on the mountain highway; Eastern Maribor highway Pesnica-Zrkovska-Ptujska in length of 10.5. Construction of these missing sections on the lower motorway leg is foreseen in December 2009, still trying to catch this deadline, whether we reach it or not, is difficult to say this moment. The fact is that some procurement procedures have been delayed, the technically difficult route and the problems of land and other real estate acquisition are not from now on, are from now on, and the construction is significantly making it more difficult and difficult to achieve accelerated dynamics. But we're doing our best on a daily basis to get this thing to work. The reconstructed section of Peračica-Subtubor is expected to be dedicated to traffic in 2010 and the eastern Maribor bypass in June 2009. If we look slightly wider than the highway cross, the plan for the transfer of motorway sections, which form part of the national construction programme, is as follows: the port of Pomurje was completed, the section of Slivnica-Drazenci or Ptuj, which is expected to be dedicated to traffic in 2009. Construction of the motorway section of Gorišnica-Ormož will begin, on the coastal motorway leg will soon end the section via Rebrnic. The Koper-Isolah section is under construction, the transfer is scheduled for 2012. Strawberries-Lucia is undergoing preparatory work for construction. The second phase of the Šentvid tunnel will be dedicated in Ljubljana this year with the implementation of both connecting pipes from the Celovska road. All those deadlines are set out in the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, which will be submitted to the National Assembly in very short time. It has not yet been, because things are practically changing with a different balance and we need to make some changes every time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will also ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. The issue of excise duties was not by mistake asked the Minister of Transport, but simply for a certain purpose because I wanted him to answer the problem of excise duty from the perspective of traffic. Today, in all electronic media, we read the big headlines of the High Oil Derivatives Price Jump that will take place tomorrow. And it's really high, so all oil derivatives, except for the fuel oil, jumped the magic limit of one euro. And I've made a comparison with our neighbors at this point and I find that oil derivatives are more expensive in our neighbours, and a little bit more distant, than in ours. If I concentrate on diesel now, of course there are more than two-thirds of such countries in Europe. I'm not talking about neighbors, except Italy. Italy is one specific. And what's going on? Even six months ago, Slovenia had the lowest excise duty, which also meant that we had one of the lower prices of oil derivatives. In particular, if we are talking about diesel, so also our motorists and those who use diesel have had favourable prices and foreigners have bought these oil derivatives in our country. In the same traffic, however, it is now with high excise duties that the environment is equally burdened because traffic is the same and foreigners are not buying any more oil derivatives in our country, but before entering Slovenia and after entering Slovenia. That means we're getting less into the state treasury. And in the final stage, why am I asking you this? Because all those who do business, say with motorists, have more expensive oil derivatives. Either they go to buy abroad or they do business with more expensive ones. They say they have worse operating conditions. Foreigners have cheaper oil derivatives because they buy them before entering Slovenia if they drive through abroad or after entry. Next. Less excise duty flows into the state budget. The worst part is that Slovenians have more expensive oil derivatives than their neighbors. Even Switzerland, where the standard is significantly higher and has higher wages, has little higher. And the environment is burdened. Now, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How do you view this from a transport point of view that our operators operating in this system using petroleum derivatives are in a significantly poorer position? Have you been squeezed into a corner in the government that your work, your segment of the economy, has given you a more difficult task of operating in difficult situations? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u152	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you for asking. We've set up an interdepartmental task force. This working group was tasked with preparing measures to finance highway and road programmes. See, from the toll line, a few more than 200 million euros are collected annually and the credits currently in place for motorways will soon exceed those figures. Let me tell you, however, that this National Assembly and the former government have adopted road programmes up to about €5 billion. Now we've spent about 4.5 on roads. So much for numbers. Things are not simple, they are a very big deal, and we probably agree that these highway sections are just as important as those we have just built, we cannot say that the motorway cross is more important than the development axes. The development axes will bring those parts of Slovenia closer to developments that may not be today. And it would be completely unfair to say that the money for the highways will no longer be, if we build the highway cross, and the others will come when they do. This would be irresponsible on the part of the Government, but Parliament will decide how to proceed. However, the government has a responsibility to provide funding. And this funding is such, given how difficult tasks we have set ourselves, this funding will need to be secured sooner or later. This is the task of this Interdepartmental Working Group. Among other things, this inter-ministerial task force has done something else that you haven't said, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it, and I'm going to do it. The price of excise duty dropped will prevent what you were talking about because it is 130 euros per thousand litres of fuel, which means much more than the toll raised. This means some help to our road hauliers in this difficult time. It is said that the Ministry of Finance, when calculating this, calculated that this increase in tolls is known or that all that is there between €55 and €60 above 1,000 tonnes is actually some kind of aid. Of course, this aid will be even more pronounced to those road hauliers who do not drive so much along the highway, which are mostly ours and not foreign. However, I do not believe that foreign carriers would be less fueled by this reduced excise duty. However, these are times of crisis, and that is why we do so. But we are bound by European transport policy, we are bound by environmental standards, and we are also bound by a decision of a political nature. If we want to get more cargo on the railways, we will not achieve this by always improving the competitiveness of road transport and rail transport. Even in this light, you have to look at these things. The effect of reduced excise duty on freight vehicles will have a significant impact on their business, as they themselves recognise in their interviews with us. In fact, the excise question for the finance minister, who can also serve you with concrete calculations and data, I was just trying to answer from the point of view of the transport ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you. I'm sure I'll also ask the Minister of Finance a question next month to get a comprehensive answer. Although I am satisfied with the work of the answer that domestic motorists will receive some relief from the purchase of petrol. I get that. It's just something else. If someone's getting something, someone else has to pay. However, since the holder is an oil derivative, other users of roads or oil derivatives pay. That's someone else being charged at the expense of someone else. In lower excise duties, when foreigners also purchased oil derivatives in Slovenia, we received money, including the tide, this is called accumulation, from elsewhere. Now it's gonna be less. There are no more foreign gas stations waiting in line if they have cheaper petrol at home. That's perfectly clear. That's saying, we're gonna get less accumulation from the outside. We'll put more weight on those homework. That's what you call home users, even personal traffic, if you want. And what has been accomplished? Nothing. You have put more pressure on your household, even the money we have on Slovenians and Slovenians, we will now pay a little more dearly to introduce a system that is essentially harmful. And there's one more thing. When you talk about railways, Mr Minister, as much as freight, car traffic through Slovenia, there will never be and will never be, so that we can essentially divert traffic from road to rail. Not at all. Then the railroad would be a snake itself. You know exactly how many trains have to drive through Slovenia on a day to satisfy that. That's not working. Rerouting traffic to the railroad is just a godly desire. But it would be as small as, say, wind energy in total electricity consumption, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's not how it works and you can't say it. [[...]] I hope that you have considered this well, along with the Minister of Finance, and that the finance minister will also be able to answer me more in the next time. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u156	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u157	Dear Member! You know, I'd be a little scared if you were right. Still, you need to know that these railways today bring 16, 17, 18 million tons, and these same railways have brought 30 million tons of electricity across the same infrastructure in their best time. There's a few spares. With improved infrastructure, this will be significantly more. I'd be so scared if you were right here. The fact is, remember just a few years ago, before the financial and economic crisis hit us - what it actually looked like to ride our highways. There wasn't a snake on the railways, but it was on the roads. This is a problem because if we have too much cargo on the road, it will also mean a great burden for our taxpayers from the point of view of reconstruction. At the end of the road infrastructure, we did not just build for freight traffic, and you know that, and you are aware of that. The fact is that we want to ensure as much mobility as possible for the economy and for the people as possible, but for the economy in such a way that where it is impossible to get on the railways. You're right. It's an illusion to expect most of the cargo to be transferred to the railways. However, it is desirable that at least large economic systems, or where freight traffic across Slovenia is in transit, should go as far as possible to the railway. With regard to excise duties on our personal vehicles, this is indeed a matter for the Minister of Finance. However, this must also be seen in a broader picture of the future, including our ministry, of personal transport. Personal transport is extremely large in the Republic of Slovenia. As we integrate public passenger transport, we are therefore trying to get more people into public transport, then the car may eventually become a little less interesting, perhaps even because of all these measures. I would not want these to be negative measures, but that they are positive measures to get on the train and then get on the bus because it will also be timely, organizational and otherwise more comfortable and more comfortable. These must be the Ministry's wishes, and we'll be trying this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. Managing space in the Republic of Slovenia as in general in the European Union, especially in the conditions under which we live, is a difficult task and often takes a lot of time. Many times, however, these times are unreasonablely long, many times it is those who cause unreasonable waiting for some who want to do so sooner, perhaps because they are not cooperating or because they are not aware of the space regulators or the individual entities involved. Many municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia complain of unreasonablely long procedures for the adoption of spatial acts of so-called OPNs or municipal spatial plans. They point out that some materials are waiting for just some formality of the signature of one or another official or in the final stage of the minister after three weeks. These are the deadlines for all those proceedings until, from the moment they wait for the signature, some changes resulting in the renewal of unreasonablely long-term deadlines. And if space regulators do not sufficiently coordinate, if these procedures do not run smoothly, there are additional problems which certainly prolong these unreasonablely long time limits. If the document, if the act waits too long for signature, some other amendments shall take place by re-entering the procedures, which shall re-extend the time. At the time at which we are, we would expect the competent Ministry of Environment and Space to take certain measures and thus help to make a more rapid reality, as we often hear that we must take advantage of this crisis and benefit from it. My question to the Minister for Environment and Space is: How many municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia are waiting for the procedures for the adoption of spatial acts, so-called UN? What measures has the Ministry of Environment and Space taken to accelerate its work at least during the economic crisis we are in?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u161	Dear Member, thank you for asking. First of all, I have to say that someone pulled you nicely because they don't hold that you have to wait three weeks for the minister's signature if all the documents are ready. I have to say, I'm signing it to take me three to four hours a day. If you show me or bring me one case where I have three weeks to sign, I'll invite you down here for lunch because it won't cost me too much. As to how many of these municipal spatial plans we have in the process. At this point, 155. I have to say, they're not waiting. They're not waiting. But it is true that they are in different stages. In particular, it depends on how the municipal spatial plan is prepared. If it is prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the space regulators, there is no problem, of course, because all the positive opinions can be obtained and the minister can finally sign. It gets complicated when some space editor does not give a positive opinion. Then there's more chance. One possibility is for a municipality with a space regulator who has not given a positive opinion to coordinate or persist in this procedure and then the Government decides or approves such a municipal spatial plan or does not approve it. I must say that, in the previous term, the Government adopted a new law on spatial planning in this sense during the month or the end of last year, with which it wanted to approach spatial planning as effectively as possible. We have now established this law in practice, and I must say that it is still lacking, as far as greater efficiency is concerned. For example, if the congregation receives all 30 consents, or 29 opinions, and only one is negative, it must be reinstated and recommitted, including where its opinions were positive. And that makes absolutely no sense. I don't know why such a solution was established. However, I must say that we will support this law because it seems pointless for us to have a positive opinion once that the holder of the regulation of the premises, I do not know what would be different in three months or four months. If positive, it is positive over a long period of time, at least municipal spatial plans usually apply for some time. For example, when it comes to a comprehensive environmental assessment, this is said in terms of environmental impacts. There too, we find that these opinions need to be obtained several times at different stages of the procedure. That is why we have decided to reopen this legislation and see what has been overlooked. I even think that it has not been overlooked, but that in some cases it is of interest that these procedures are complicated, that professional opinions need to be obtained. These market assessments are usually carried out by specially authorised organisations, and I think this is why they are such solutions. We are reviewing this law in order to rationalise all these procedures. However, I must say that at the same time there are activities related to the installation of important infrastructure facilities, such as pipelines, pipelines, railways and so on. Here we will draw up a special law that will allow for the faster installation of these facilities, which are of public interest, which are of wider social importance, because we see how certain investments stop. So to your question is the answer to 155 municipal spatial plans is in proceedings. They are in different stages, but it depends very much on how they are aligned with the environment regulators, and these are many, from the Ministry of Agriculture to culture, not to list them all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, you want an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u163	Of course, I don't want to argue with the minister, especially there at the beginning, who's going to invite someone to lunch. One of his clumsy statements was heard last year before the 1,000-euro elections, and we know where it is today. However, if you'll allow me to do so, I still need to base my question on a question which certainly did not grow just like that, but I have tried for more than two months to obtain all the necessary content that I am asking you today. Here I have the so-called proof material in writing, which I rely on, and which I can then hand over to you to see exactly what this is all about. It is one of the institutions involved in the whole proceedings. So they wrote: "Your observations are quite accurate, as the procedures for the adoption of spatial acts, the municipal spatial plans are indeed being extended. From our experience, it has been observed that from handing over the material to the Minister of Environment and Space, it takes about three weeks. Thus, procedures that are fully completed, with all positive opinions, are extended for approx. two months, because it takes two signatures of the ministers you spoke of." I say again, I don't mean to mention, I have here a document in my hands that is signed by the people who helped me do this. However, in the SDS Group, which regularly walks on the ground, we received countless comments directly from a number of municipalities dealing with the same problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you for reminding me of my statement on thousands of euros in pensions. This was about those I said better for pensioners to have a thousand Euros of pension than for tycoons to have a few hundred million Euros of property because they owned this social property or state property. As for your record, I suggest you give me this paper name and surname and we'll see if it really lasts three weeks of signature with me because it doesn't. We're just going to do the right thing. Because I spend too much time signing and constantly arguing with the Ministry of Environment and Space that there is a lot of time going on, because these powers could be passed on to the Secretary of State or to the Director. That's why I'm asking you to give me this paper and we'll see what particular case the party was waiting for my signature for three weeks, because that's a really great lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Procedural motion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u167	In accordance with the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a broader debate be held on this subject in the National Assembly, as I am not satisfied with the content of the reply of the Minister responsible for the environment and space. Once again, Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are acting unitedly throughout Slovenia in parliamentary offices, which we usually have on Mondays, if we do not have other obligations, and that we would almost disagree with a Member who would say that he did not encounter at least one problem with regard to the dissatisfaction of municipalities with regard to environmental regulation and space. Here we run into a number of problems that young families also deal with when they try to regulate their space the easiest way, and unfortunately they fail to do so, so many despair. On one of the visits to Crassus, we were informed that people in that hilly part of Crassus have been trying to arrange the space for almost thirty years and that you will die sooner than to experience that something will be done in this area. Therefore, I am sure that this is really a broader issue, which is right for Members and Members of the National Assembly to speak about these substantive proposals concerning environmental and spatial regulation. I believe and have been very pleased today, on the other hand, even surprised, the minister even mentioned the scattered construction, especially in various areas, among which he also mentioned Haloze, and from this place I congratulate him on remembering Haloze and the Halozanes, who are now leading public water supply, which unfortunately do not have. I am sure that, with such a broader debate in the National Assembly, it would help attract some of your state bureaucrats who are enjoying stalling rather than helping. And believe me, Minister-designate, such concrete cases as the Member and Members, we can do quite something to prove that some of your officials are not really for helping, but, on the contrary, that the process should go on as long as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Branko Marinič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. The question of correspondence is addressed to the Minister of Health, who is duly absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you. However, I will ask a question and I want the Minister to answer it at the next oral meeting. This is a question that is becoming increasingly serious, namely, the stability of Slovenian health, the financial situation. Recently it was found that Slovenian hospitals have a deficit of up to €56 million, at 31. 12. 2008 The government's response was to move EUR 56.6 million away from the 7.2 million budget. So a little more than 10% of the government is willing to resolve this negative balance of Slovenian hospitals. But that's not all. The Health Insurance Office states that the projection of the following years is very black, with a health-care allowance of 128 million deficits this year, the next year of 133 and the next year of 2011 270 million. Cumulatively, if we look at it, it's €531 million. These are serious assets. This approach has already been seen in the proposal of the Health Insurance Institute. 531 million over three years, and let us take into account that these proposals proposed by the Health Insurance Office are to be valid or maintain for all three years, namely a 20% reduction in the depreciation of hospitals. This will bring $11 million a year. 5% reduction in wages. I don't know how this is going to happen, but it's going to bring $33 million a year. Lower price of erythropoietin in dialysis. This will bring 0.6m euros. 5% reduction in the financing of tertiary activities. That'll bring $5 million. The lower prices of drugs, this will bring 3.3 million a year. Gentlemen, this totals 53 million a year or in three years, if all of this were realized, 159 million. Where's the rest of the $531 million? We have a very black scenario ahead of us. All of Europe is aware that a systemic approach is needed. It will be in Austria by the end of September, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In Salzburg, the 12th Congress, the European Health Forum, namely the financial crisis and health policy. [[...]] I ask the Minister: Where are the general measures announced, systemic [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] measures [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister of Economy a question. Both ministers have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Investors who applied for an invitation to tender from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and obtained grants, which are also part of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, measure 311, which contributes to the development of complementary and additional activities on farms, and measure 312, the development of micro-enterprises in rural areas. The funds received are 75% by the European Union. Prior to the completion of the investment, investors were informed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would consider a proposal for a regulation on support for electricity produced from renewable sources. The proposal for a regulation in Article 15 provides that the buying-in price of electricity or operating support shall be reduced if the investor has received grants when setting up the solar power plant, which investors consider to be illegal. The calculations show that this reduces the revenue from the sale of electricity or operating support by a higher amount than that of the investors. Therefore, if the Regulation is adopted in the form indicated on the website, the recipients will have to pay all the grants back to the State and also pay high interest. The proposal for a regulation violates the constitutional principle of non-compliance with the rights acquired, as it imposes on the recipients the reimbursement of grants. I therefore ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for the Economy: When and how do you plan to regulate the area of grant allocation, as laid down in the electricity support regulation produced from renewable sources, as well as the area of purchase prices and operating premiums?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u172	Mr. Minister Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u173	Mr Member, thank you very much for the question. I'll give you the first part of the answer. The electricity support regulation produced from renewable sources is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. However, it is true that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has been supporting investments in renewable energy from its development programmes for many years. You also specified exactly what programs these are. These are programmes under the rural development programme, which is measure 311 by diversifying non-agricultural activities and 312 by supporting micro-enterprises. All of these support is intended exclusively for physical investments and not for the purchase of electricity. We have just found that when a regulation on the purchase of electricity from renewable sources was in preparation, it is this mistake that you have also warned about. We did the exact calculations, and you rightly stated that those who received 50% grants would be in a poorer position due to the lower price of electricity when selling. We have also calculated this very precisely in some cases, and we have found, for example, that in one microsystem on the roof there is a nominally strong 22.5 kilowatts and with the annual production of 23 megawatts and at 1100 operating hours, and given that such an investment is worth EUR 99,000, the holder, the investor has received half of these non-refundable funds to be deducted from the total energy price by approximately EUR 28 000 annually, which is not a negligible number. That is why we have agreed with the Ministry of the Economy to draw attention to this problem. Our comment has been taken into account and in this case the electricity purchase regulation has been corrected in the part where the redemption price is calculated in the case of grants. The Ministry of the Economy has taken our comments into account in a coordinated manner, and thus the recipients of our grants are not in a worse position than the others. This Regulation has been adopted 8. 5. 2009 to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Lakhovnik, would you like? [[No, no, ……]] Then you can ask a supplementary question. There is still time available for both ministers with a question. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The grants shall be obtained by means of administrative decisions issued on the basis of applications for invitation to tender. They are issued by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development and are legal and definitive. The funds received are irreparable, but in fact they are not encouraging, but they are disstimulating. If the investment had been made through a bank loan, it would have been more favourable with interest than a reduction in the price of electricity and operating premiums. The characteristic of grants is that they do not have to be returned. Nor is it mentioned that the recipients of grants will be deprived at purchase prices, which shows that the state will misuse European funds unjustifiably. The electricity support regulation produced from renewable sources allows retroactivity, which is contrary to the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking: Why is the electricity support regulation produced from renewable sources also applicable to those who have acquired grants prior to the adoption of the said Regulation, as conditions are worse? I also want to know: Why are the grants received returned in the form of a reduction in the subsidy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Your Honor. The electricity support regulation, produced from renewable sources, does not cover the area of grant allocation. This Regulation only lays down how subsidies received, i.e. grants or more favourable loans from commercial and similar forms of support, are taken into account in the determination of support, i.e. buying-in prices and operating support to electricity producers from renewable energy sources financed by contributions from electricity consumers. Support to renewable electricity producers is a form of State aid. This is a decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2007 in the State aid scheme implemented by Slovenia under its legislation of so-called qualified energy producers, i.e. producers from renewable energy sources and cogeneration. It is said that they are the production of heat and electricity. State aid contributing to environmental protection is allowed and must be implemented in accordance with Community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection. We can't do it anyway. Aid shall be granted primarily as aid to producers to depreciate production devices which could not be paid due to their own free market electricity price. In particular, I would like to point out that the regulation mentioned here is not retroactive. The Regulation does not take anything and grants shall not be taken back. If individual recipients of grants do not apply for support under the scheme laid down in the Regulation, no one will intervene in their subsidies. However, the Regulation prevents electricity producers from receiving these subsidies twice: once as grants and twice as electricity support. In this case, however, there would be a discriminatory situation in the market, which would also be contrary to the basic principle that you could only receive a subsidy for the same thing once and that the individual recipient could not communicate them. So build on each other. Perhaps I would only point out that the Community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection specifically point out certain cases, where the aid scheme should always be notified to the European Commission, which would not approve schemes that do not have an inclusive mechanism to prevent accumulation of aid. Well, that's another way of putting it. If we were to report a scheme whereby it would be possible to accumulate aid, to build, first from one source, then from another source twice, it is clear that such a scheme would not be approved by the European Commission. Above all, it would undermine some normal situation on the market and place entities which should be in the same situation in a completely different position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister for Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is true that this would be more appropriate for me to ask the former Minister for Environment and Space and also the former Minister of Economy. More than 60 municipalities submitted an application at the end of 2007 and at the beginning of 2008 for higher prices for economic public service waste management services. The procedure for attesting new prices of services was unreasonablely long. It is said that the former government did not agree to raise prices because rising prices would increase inflation for services. Some ministers were supposed to carry proposals in their personal bags for months. Among these more than six applications for price increases were municipalities that respected the Operational Programme on Waste Disposal, the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area, the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme, as well as the Directive of the Council of the European Community on waste disposal in landfills, which provides for the disposal of waste at regional waste management centres. There were also some of these municipalities that closed their landfills and started to drive waste to regional centres, which are significantly more distant from the origin of waste, and these new waste prices were also three times more expensive than the previous ones. It is said that there have been purely new facts understood by children, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was under the previous mandate, did not want to understand this. In specific cases, applications for a positive expert opinion on the competent ministry were submitted already in September 2007. The previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the new prices of services was obtained in October 2008. One month after that, prices entered into force. It is worth noting that the local communities have already given their consent to raise prices for companies engaged in this type of economic service to submit an application for price increases in 2007. Inadvertent price delay has also resulted in losses in more than 100,000 euros or millions in the implementation of this public service. However, they showed up specifically at the end of the 2008 accounts. That's why I'm asking: Who's gonna pay for this loss? Are new proposals for pricing at national level being prepared? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u181	Mr Jurša, Commissioner, thank you for the question. I think you'll be very pleased with the answer, given the way it's set. I agree with you that this has often been the case with the postponement of these inducements or that all these matters have not been justified. And the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a decision, where it has in some way authorised ministers to sign an agreement with the representative united municipalities on this issue as well. In my own capacity as district minister, I have committed myself to changing the way the regulation is regulated in this area, so that it is within the competence of local communities or municipal councils and the mayor, in accordance with the principle of decentralisation. It is a matter of a local nature and it is only right that this is ensured in accordance with the principle of the transfer of powers to local communities. At this point, I agree. We have therefore sent a letter to all municipalities at the Ministry of Economy on 7 May informing them of the subject matter of the agreement and that the price-setting measure in the area of the pricing of municipal services would no longer be implemented and calling for any reservations to be communicated to the Ministry of Economy as soon as possible. This is in fact now in the congregations themselves, whether they want to take power or they want it to continue to be the responsibility of the State. We also convened a meeting at the Ministry of the Economy on this agreement. I think this is the 28th of May of this year, of course, where representatives of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Communities of Slovenia and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, the Ministry of Environment and Space and representatives of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development are invited. In short, everyone who is involved in this problem in one way or another. The meeting will also consider the possibility of simplifying the pricing of these services, as proposed by the municipalities. The current regulation on the pricing of municipal services is valid for 6 months, up to 25. Ten. 2009, and it can be cancelled at any time. The draft Regulation in the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for environmental protection, issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space, is in the final stage of coordination. Once again, I would like to say that we are actually waiting for the opinion of the municipalities to say whether they are in this area of decentralisation, they want to have this in their jurisdiction, as you point out that what has occurred in the past would not occur. Even when it was a new service, for some added value, I do not know whether additional sorting of waste or similar, it was not possible for this service to be properly evaluated. This willingness to decentralize and transfer this area to the jurisdiction of local communities exists. As I've informed the government, the government also supports this. Now it's a matter of implementation. However, it seems right for us to get the opinion of local communities before the final decision. From this point of view, I must say that I welcome your question, which is very up to date. As I said, we intend to make a substantial change in this area in the direction I have directed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u183	Dear Mr. Secretary. I am very pleased with the answer to my other questions. But I want an answer to the first question: Who will pay the loss to a municipal housing company of EUR 200,000, which is now required of the municipalities, but which has not caused the loss?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u185	But here I hope you'll agree that I'm not the right address for this question. I have nothing to do with these things being in a drawer or in a suitcase for months or more. And it's hard to answer that question because I'm not a lawyer. In any case, I think this matter needs to be settled immediately, in the direction that I have directed it. Why do I think that's necessary? Because I think there's basically some things that need to be decentralised. I agree that it is right that it is the responsibility of the municipalities, of course also to take responsibility before their citizens for any rise in the price of services or for a reduction, which is more favourable, and that they can also adequately defend it. However, I think it is wrong that once the councils of the municipalities decide on this, and then, as you say, these things are put off for such or other political reasons. And the cleanest way to prevent this is, as I said, decentralisation, not in this area, to give them scissors and canvas. It is true, however, that I personally think that in many cases there are local monopolies in the area of municipal services, that there will be a need to ensure some greater competition in this area, otherwise it will actually depend only on municipal and municipal councils and mayors to maintain some healthy measure here. However, I agree that additional services, if they are also waste sorting and similar, may also entail additional costs. As for the costs for those things, I must say that I, here we will probably agree, I am not the right address and I find it difficult to appreciate, it is difficult to imagine that this would burden all taxpayers, but this is probably another story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. This is, of course, justifiably absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u187	Yeah, sure. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Nevertheless, I will ask the question that my colleagues will be informed and that it will be as much as it was supposed to be, and that from the magnetogram then Mr Minister will be able to answer this question. Recently, perhaps in the last half of the year, when intensive negotiations with Croatia took place, even coalition types heard that Slovenian diplomacy was not very active in presenting Slovenian views. That's what I think my colleague Potsch himself said, and we've heard it from some other mouth. I am of the opinion that our Slovenian diplomacy is fine enough to be effective enough, but this has proved to be a flaw when we did not have an ambassador in the key European capitals and in the two superpowers at this time of crisis. In fact, it was just an on-call team, so to speak, for running errands. Under such conditions, of course, it is harder to lobby and represent Slovenian positions, and in the end, the person felt that only Croatia was on the scene and that Slovenia was somehow forced into a defensive position. But I wanted to upgrade the question after the latest news. As far as I am aware, a new law on foreign policy is being prepared, and I am also pursuing a number of ambassadors to be recalled here. In addition, we have heard that the foreign ministry loses some resources in the budget rebalancing, which is a large part of the funds, and I think this is a very difficult issue at a time when we would need this diplomacy. I think that even if Mr. Minister were here, at this time at our disposal, I would not be able to clear up all these open questions, so what I now announce is that I am proposing an expanded debate that is supposed to be - Is not procedurally possible? [[...]] On the other hand, when the Minister is able to respond, we will continue this process, as it has been established and escaped. But I thank him in advance for the answers to one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u188	Would you like an oral response? [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Thank you. [[...]] The same Minister, who is absent, will be asked a question by Mr Miro Petek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a shame that Members are not previously informed that there are no ministers, because then they would not be preparing the question and would be asked when ministers are here. Nevertheless, I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs' oral reply at the next meeting. The Minister for Foreign Affairs obviously has very serious problems with leaking to the country of very important information. The Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs was informed orally at a recent closed-door meeting, i.e. without written material, of the regular proposal to resolve the border issue between Slovenia and Croatia. We were able to read this confidential material in facsimile form a few days later in Slovenian media. While the Government hides this material from Members, this documentation is traded in the media market. When the Italian government squandered a million euros to Slovenia for the operation of the minority months ago, the then special envoy of the government, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, set out on a confidential negotiating trip to Rome. But he didn't even get to the airport when the media already knew that Mr Rupel was going to Rome. Half-second year ago, we were dealing with a so-called Washington dispatch, which was written in Washington just when the ambassador to the United States was today Minister Samuel Žbogar. Mr Žbogar should have pressed the press "confidential" on this dispatch at the time, but he enjoyed Christmas holidays. For some documents that are of national importance to our country and are found in the public, we know, but surely there are many such documents that are leaking from the Youth in the form of photocopying or otherwise, and the public does not know about them. It is clear that the foreign ministry has major problems with diplomatic incontinence, this is the uncontrolled flow of classified information from the Ministry. As a result of the publication of the Washington depot in part of the Serbian press and official websites of the Serbian government, attacks on the Slovenian Embassy, an aggressive attitude towards Slovenia, problems of the Slovenian economy on Serbian soil and could also be listed. It is also scandalous and unacceptable to get Reno's proposal in the hands of the media rather than Members of the National Assembly. I therefore ask the Minister: What has he done and how will he do to prevent the leak of classified information from the country? For he is responsible for such work subjectively and objectively. I expect an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u191	Good-bye. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Ministers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u192	Excuse me. [[...]] I'm just saying there's no minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u193	Do I wait or say?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u194	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] No, it's not. [[...]] Here's yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u195	I have finished with the distinguished ministers, the honourable fellow Member, the honourable Members. We've already dealt with the problem of highways today. The problem is where they are not yet and where they are, but there is always a problem: during maintenance times, congestions, especially at peaks and at tourist seasons. However, I would point out a specific problem that occurs mainly on the highway between the tunnels in Trojan and also on the mountain highway near Podtbor. This is either a closure of the lane or a one-way stretch, which has been going on for over a year. It is a reduction of speed to 60 kilometres per hour, congestion, along the tip line, also congestion in the tunnels that must be closed so that there is no increased risk of CO2 poisoning. It also appeared on the other side of the Trojans a good year ago. Thus, this is a daily problem for all those who drive from Styria to Ljubljana, now several Members. In these places, no one does anything at this time. It's true that now in the last few days they've started doing something. Rumors are different: that these are some elements that are very expensive, which are very quickly robbed, which are thrown out by the plows in the winter. But they're deadlocks and there's a problem. So I wonder: When will these problems be solved, and in what ways? And: How will this specific issue be addressed in the future? [[Mr. Secretary has arrived. Hello. It was also written.]] This is a specific problem of congestion in particular of these two sections in Troy between the tunnels and the mountain highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for asking. See, the awareness that Slovenia must make a major leap forward in the field of transport safety has helped to create more organised and systematic work in this area in recent years. Various experts are trying to influence the improvement of the situation in their field with the selected measures. The solutions are sought in three basic traffic safety cells, namely the vehicle, the driver and the road. Much has already been written and much has been said about the impact of safe infrastructure and on transport safety. It certainly believes that the percentage of the impact of road infrastructure on road safety in Slovenia is below the level of other countries, but also in this area in the coming years with the implementation of the European Directive on the improvement of road infrastructure safety and the implementation of the European non-governmental project on road infrastructure safety assessment will certainly change. These European regulations will oblige us to report in all major traffic accidents with fatalities whether the infrastructure may have been the one that caused the accident. Most often, we hear that it is a driver, an unadjusted speed, and so on; and here something will change in this area. The closure of the lanes on the motorway sections was solely related to traffic safety. Be sure that the belt is damaged to the extent that it poses a risk to the road users or that it is necessary to secure other maintenance works on the highway. The road manager doesn't set up a prison without security reasons. At the time of the closure of the lane, it is logical to expect that traffic in such places will slow down as the volume of two lanes is significantly higher than the capacity of one, of course. At the Ministry of Transport, too, we are aware of the negative effects of traffic in such situations of traffic accidents, congestion, emissions increases and the like, so this year we ask the highway operator to do all the work with the maximum possible intensity, as soon as possible. As I replied earlier, there will also be several points in the calls for proposals to bring a reference to the one who will offer shorter implementation deadlines. It is also a desire to avoid simultaneous consecutive prisons on the same route, so that we do not get the same way as we did last fall on, say, the coastal highway. We have started to equip Slovenian motorways with a traffic management system through SPIIS portals, which service users with up-to-date information - much helps to improve traffic flow or reduce congestion on motorways. This system will be upgraded in the coming years. We will certainly increase the number of measuring stations of stationary radars carrying out speed measurements in the most dangerous places. I can also tell you that, with the Minister of Safety, we have recently presented a new body - soon our colleagues will present it to us and we may, if we are satisfied, give a green light that this project, which will deal with road safety and possibly other transport systems, will continue. This is one solution that I think is very modern. Similarly, the Netherlands has similar requirements in the European Union's professional public. With regard to road congestion, one of the measures that I believe will also help to improve information, the highway radio and this project is also very close to implementation. But there are many examples of good practice that we share among ourselves ministers. Let's say one of the things that my co-workers are studying right now is a reduction in speed due to greater permeability. This system was last introduced to us by the United Kingdom Minister of Transport, which is the United Kingdom, where, at reduced speeds of vehicles on the sections, it thus prevented the density. In this way, for example, you do drive 80, 70, or 60, but you do drive, you do not stand; and it is environmentally more acceptable, and permeability is proven to be greater, by reducing speed at these sections so much and so many kilometers earlier. However, systems are difficult and require a very thorough examination. We are doing so much in this area and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thanks for the answer. I'm partly satisfied, Mr. Secretary, because I think it was a specific matter. But I would like you to give a concrete answer, because there has been nothing going on in these places for several years, it's only narrowed down, it's slowed down, it's slowed down, it's also on the other side. As we hear, this is a specific problem and that is why we would like to hear how we would do it and also prevent it from happening so often in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u201	We are dealing with this particular problem and when we come to a conclusion of what has happened here, because there has been a rapid recovery, we will let you know what happened here. And if we have to, we will demand the responsibility of those who have made it possible that what has been done so quickly, if we may say so, has proved to be inadequacy, which is why we have to close the belts, and we will demand responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you. I give the word to Lászl Göncz, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! On the basis of the example of the area where I come from, I would like to highlight the problems that are causing some citizens, owners of agricultural land, many problems probably also in the wider geographical area. In the past, Lendava’s agricultural holding is with the owners of agricultural land on the basis of the lease agreement of the leased agricultural area. These contracts, which were concluded during different periods, also included definitions of the literary permission to register property rights in favour of the agricultural economy. The lease agreements were concluded for a period of ten years by automatic extension in the event that the lease was not terminated. In addition to the annual rent for certain land, the contract also provided for the possibility of compensation for land or land replacement or a certain part of the lease area for other suitable land. In the ownership process, all social property was transferred to the property of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The open obligations under the contracts concluded at that time were not taken into account by the competent authorities, even in the Land Book they did not take into account existing claims for compensation in the case of certain land. The actual landowners became aware of the changes that occurred much later, most of them after the formal opportunity to object. In certain cases, the replacement land allocated during that period was not entered into the land book. Now the cost of transfer of ownership and books burdens the new owner. In most cases, however, the owners did not even receive the replacement land and thus were legally deprived of a specific area of land. The Legal Service of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the other competent current position explain that there is no legal practice in the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the matter and pay irrefutable compensation. Personally, I cannot agree with such interpretations, since I believe that the contractual relationship, although in a slightly more distant past, has actually been concluded and left unresolved obligations in a financial or material form. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Is he aware of such problems of the owners of agricultural land? And: In what form, within the framework of his powers, he will approach these problems [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or may there be a need to find a specific solution? [[...]] Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u205	Dear President, honourable Member! I thank you for this question. If you're asking me if I've been aware of this, I wasn't aware of this case because it's a matter of the '80s. However, the Ministry obtained information from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia during this time of two, three days, which I had at my disposal to respond to. ABC Pomurka and the working organisation Rakičan Agriculture has agreed with landowners to lease contracts with the possibility of registering ownership rights and the landowner acquires a replacement land of the same culture and ratings - this was the content. Rental contracts were concluded for a period of ten years and leases were also agreed, which in some cases Lendava Farm is still paying today. On the basis of the contract, an authorisation was given to copy land to the natural persons of social property. According to the content, land leases, which were subsequently arondated, contained all the essential components of the sale contract. Lands that have been arid are now mostly owned by natural persons and, as such, are not capable of being transferred or returned by the Republic of Slovenia. It's a very complicated matter, I must say. Similar examples in the area of the other Slovenia are unknown to us, even those who have worked on these issues for a long time do not know such cases. According to information from the Fund, the outstanding cases of arondations were later resolved in the denationalisation process and, in some cases, the parties with these requests were also successful. Thus these lands came back to their owners, who were denationalized. According to the Fund - I must point out: according to the Funds - we have insisted that we be informed of the number of cases completed and not completed in this area - 85 cases of total 96 have been completed, according to the Fund, in which EUR 224 000 681 has been paid for farm land transferred. And once again, according to the Fund, only 12.34 hectares of agricultural land have been opened in total. In view of the fact that the request for recovery of arrond land can only be met by payment of compensation, it will be necessary to find a legal basis for the payment of compensation for such cases. You know, the Agricultural Land Fund is within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and it also decides on certain reports of the Supervisory Council and the Council of the Institute. The Fund assured me that I had insisted that this issue would be addressed at one of the next meetings, which would be in June or July of this year - and this would be the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in order to find an appropriate solution, as well as to determine the amount of compensation for unsolved cases. So, the case is open, it's in the process, it's a matter of course. In June or July, I was assured by the Fund, they will consider this and also try to find an appropriate solution, as well as to determine the amount of compensation for these 13 outstanding cases. The contract does not assess the compensation and will still need to be defined in the procedure. It is said that this will be a demanding procedure that the Fund will have to carry out. However, I agree with you that due to the principle of fairness and equal treatment of the parties in similar cases, these outstanding procedures must be completed as quickly as possible for the benefit of the people affected. We've managed so much to gather in this short time on this, I might say, outdated and challenging stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you. Would you like a refill? No, no, no. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Dr Svetlik, distinguished Minister and Minister, Members of Parliament. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is part of those ministries which are tasked with preparing measures to improve the situation we are in. The Ministry of Labour has drawn up at least two such laws that promise to reduce the number of unemployed with the good functioning of these laws. However, in order for both laws to work well - at least those that have been prepared so far - it is also essential how the laws will be implemented in practice and in monitoring the implementation of both laws is important for the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia. I have been working with the Employment Office for some time, not just the kind of thing that would get all the people that this institution is giving them to do, it's a pleasure, but it's either an irregularity within the framework of pay policy, which the institution has to take care of in one way or another in 45 days, and it's also a number of other irregularities. It is a matter of transmission of work to the Agency for the intervention of work and supervisory functions in the institution. The new legislation also gives us the Employment Service some new tasks. And precisely because the work so far has not always been so that those who are assigned to the Employment Service are given the impression that they will receive the best quality services on the fastest way, I ask: Are you planning any specific measures regarding the role, organisation and competences of the Employment Office? Many people believe that employment institutions should play an essential role in providing professional advice to the unemployed seeking work in order to return to the labour market as soon as possible, that this time, when they are waiting for employment, is as short as possible and that there is also good advice and, of course, an appropriate number of advisory workers. These are all the questions that have led me to ask you: What measures are you planning? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] How do you see the Employment Service in these very difficult tasks? [[...]] Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u209	Mr. President-in-Office. Madam Member and Members of Parliament! I would say the following to this question at the starting point. The Employment Office is our central implementing institution in the field of employment and is organised in 12 regional services and then 60 other employment offices, which I stress because this brings the users of these services closer to them. Its main tasks, as I know, are to ensure social security for the unemployed, it is said that they must be entered in the relevant records as soon as possible, while also ensuring the rights they are entitled to under this Title. The implementation of the active employment policy measure is then. A whole range of these measures are to be designed and then also to ensure their implementation and control. Professional orientation, the third key issue carried out by these institutions, in particular through their centres of professional orientation and counselling. And also employment rehabilitation of disabled people - the issue of work permits and so on. How does he do that? It is also a matter of connecting with employers and, of course, taking care of those workers who apply and seek individual services. In the face of these deteriorating labour market conditions, its priority is certainly to ensure social security for the unemployed through the payment of monetary compensations and, of course, to inform these unemployed about and direct jobs, to enable them to occupy these vacancies. I have to say that there are sometimes some doctrinal misunderstandings here, so to speak, because, according to many claims, doctrines in the world, the unemployed should not be helped the moment they apply to the Institute, but must be provided only a few months after they have exhausted the possibilities of self-activation, because otherwise they are not activated to a large extent. So sometimes there is no agreement here whether the Institute should immediately, when a person logs into the register, already come to the aid with all possible programs, or not. With us, I must say, the Institute has recently paid great attention to this crisis period, particularly in the sense that where redundancies occur to a greater extent, the Institute will, as we say, also in those companies where there have been surpluses, and will already be able to register these workers. Now, the measures we are taking to enable the Office to perform these functions or have been approved by the Council of the Institute itself are, in particular, the following. Firstly, mobile teams are formed, as I said, for the recruitment of redundant workers where there are more of these workers, and other expert teams for the so-called project work. This is something the Institute used to do to a lesser extent. We also note a lot of overwork because the burdens of employees are high and it is also a shift of employees from one area of work to another, depending on needs. I can say this on the basis of the monitoring of the internal organisation in the Institute. The development of so-called electronic services, i.e. information-supported services, is further developed, which are then more accessible to all users; proactive cooperation with employers and employees, and the reduction of the employment of foreigners, which is now one of such very current tasks that the Institute is preparing. Let it be further stated because you specifically asked about these two major intervention laws that are coming, and one is already in the implementation of the Institute to judge that the first measure, subsidies for shorter working hours, the Institute implements qualitatively, in one place and also has full control over this, because otherwise there would be problems with control and abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, Mr. Secretary. That is why I ask because people are unfaithful to Tomaža and because control often creaks, it is good to know: Are these things so arranged that the number of abuses is as low as possible? You yourself have mentioned the employment of foreigners. In the context of this employment, I know of some concrete cases of serious violations of labour intervention for workers from third countries, including possible abuses, but until this is discovered, it is impossible to prosecute. But what I'm really interested in is this. Sometimes it also feels that, say, in the center the number of employees is increasing - on the central. Where there is a particular job and where the aid is directed directly to the job seeker, I wonder: Will it be taken care of and assured at these times when we save and when there are no predictions of many new jobs, that the work will actually run in such a way that I hope that the great influx of the unemployed will not be overrun - even the outflow from unemployment will be as fast as possible? If true - regardless of the doctrine or doctrinal differences to which you have warned - however, entering the work as quickly as possible? I ask this because the issue of education is also left to this announced new measure by the Employment Institute. Thank you for that other part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I can now add to the fact that the issue of employment of foreigners has recently been revealed as to a more problematic extent. But I have to say, the Institute is working under the law. The problem is that we have legislation here that is so liberal that it's being exploited. We are now looking for ways to prevent this anomaly from occurring by appropriate regulations. Unfortunately, the law is open to the extent that those who establish a company with us have the right to obtain a work permit for themselves and for another company. This is something that has led to the situation of these abuses, which I hope will now be eliminated in a short time by the Inter-Resortary, including with the Ministry of the Interior. Another time. With regard to reinforcements or the number of employees. We have proposed that the Institute be exempted from minus 2% of employees. We hope that we will be able to agree on this at government level, because it is indeed true that the task falls large and will be difficult to manage without at least maintaining the number of employees. We are also looking for ways to strengthen the implementation of certain tasks. As for this supervision, especially in the short-term measure, subsidies for this short-term work period, let me say that we have had some reports of abuse, but the labour inspectorate has not confirmed the infringements so far. Thus, this measure has not been misused in our conduct as it is sometimes guessed or spoken. But if, of course, there are cases we haven't looked at, then the work inspector will look into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! A good two years ago, the European Commission prepared an Action Programme to reduce administrative burdens by 2007, which was confirmed by the Member States in March 2007, and in this document the Commission identified the activities of all countries to reduce administrative costs by about a quarter. Of course, the purpose of this programme is to measure the costs caused by the various information obligations, particularly in an economy which would be good to minimise the burden in order to make it more effective by maintaining its purpose. I am particularly interested: How does Slovenia, Madam Minister, implement this programme? Where can our legislation be more difficult than European - to say so - or where do we require higher standards or what activities, especially in this crisis that we are witnessing, help the Government to reduce administrative burdens to facilitate the economic space of manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u216	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Commissioner, yes, the European Commission has already adopted a programme in 2007 and wants to remove administrative barriers by 25% at European level. Member States - and among them Slovenia, at the end of 2007 joined with the same ambition. Ten days ago, at the informal meeting of Ministers in Prague, the Ministries of Competitiveness and the Elimination of Administrative Obstacles, all representatives of the Member States of the European Union attracted Commissioner Günter Verheugen, the Commission's Vice-President, who clearly urged all of us to significantly increase the costs of micro- and small-scale enterprises most vulnerable during this crisis. We've been called on to speed up the action. Our government has already reviewed what has been done in the country since December 2008, even though it is aware that the removal of administrative barriers is essential for a good business environment for economic operators. We have found that the measures taken in the time of the former government have unfortunately not been implemented because of the Presidency's obligation and due to the elections in the autumn work in 2008 in the sense that the ministries would remove the administrative obstacles they have imposed to them. We have also found that the eradication programme, the action plan, the 25% administrative barriers actually started in 2008 only by measuring administrative burdens in the field of labour law. The measurement was carried out by the co-workers at the Ministry of Public Administration and nothing else has been done in this area. The Minister of Labour undertook to implement this part of the programme in 2010 when the costs were already measured. In order to remove administrative obstacles in all other areas, i.e. in the field of work of all ministries, we had to set up a programme, taking into account the best practices of the Member States and, last but not least, the European Commission itself, from the beginning, to say, if we want to implement it, as the government committed itself to the European Commission at the end of 2007. That's why we're seven. 5. After studying all the best practices in the government, we have adopted the following conclusions, and in fact not only accepted them, but we have also set our hands for the realisation of each of the steps that have been taken, until when we will do so. Within a month, that is to say, by July 2009, we have also called and in writing have also called on trade chambers and all interested NGOs to submit proposals to the Ministry of Public Administration through the Ministry of Public Administration to prepare a set of rules, which will then measure the costs and determine which costs are most burdensome for businesses and citizens as well. We will implement these measurements, like the European Commission and Member States, with best practices through European structural means and with the help of non-governmental organisations, with the help of economic and other stakeholders most affected by these obstacles. After 2011 and 2012, on the basis of a set of measures through the legislative process, we will also remove them in all areas that we will recognise as the burden of the economy. We presented these measures in the Trade Forum, in the Economic and Social Council. All representatives of the social partners are pleased with this approach and will also help us in this very difficult work and approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u218	Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much for that answer, Madam Secretary. See, in recent years we have received some measures in Slovenia to boost the competitiveness of the small economy. Perhaps the public is most familiar with this project All in one place and something similar could be found. Although in its 2007 report, the OECD notes that in the preparation of the new rules, the Government does not take into account the public or does not carry out an assessment of the impact of these rules on the economy. Where are we right now? How is the new legislation that Members and Members of Parliament receive on our bench? So, are these assessments on the emergence of new administrative barriers to economic burdens being drawn up in the preparation of new legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I would be extremely happy if I could answer with a yes answer, and I will be very frank. The new government does not yet implement the principles of better legislation in these few months, as we have committed ourselves to the European Union in 2000, as recommended. The principles of better legislation are at two points, including the 2008 Court of Auditors' assessment, even as assessed by the Ombudsman for 2007, particularly with regard to public participation in the regulatory process; all of these principles are not sufficiently taken into account in the regulatory process in Slovenia today. We have made a lot of efforts over the past few months to answer the question of what to do in order to incorporate these principles into policymaking processes at individual ministries. This week, it comes from the great efforts of our co-workers in the process of resolution on normative activities or on the preparation of better regulations. Why? Since it will be adopted in the National Assembly, it will be the political commitment of each government to involve the public in the policy-making process, to publish at least 30 to 60 rules, to get an answer when the proposal is made, why this proposal has not been taken into account in the drafting process, and to actually carry out an assessment of the effects of the rules in the drafting process. So to micro-, small businesses, to companies, to competitiveness, to citizens, to the social position of citizens. Today, we do not do this in such a way that, at the end of the legislation adopted by the respected assembly, the legislation adopted would be balanced, specific, clear, brought together in one place, all of which is very lame for the competitive advantages of our economic operators. In accordance with this resolution, we have prepared a revision of the Rules of Procedure, then we have information support for such work of the Government and we will begin training public servants so that we can work on these new principles. I ask, of course, below, the National Assembly to support us in these efforts, that the resolution be adopted as it will be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] important to every single government. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u223	Your Honor! My question, as the President has said in the introduction, namely, the President of the National Assembly, is addressed to you, Mr Minister for Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. I'll begin with your words Wednesday, May 13th, as Officer of the Evening. I quote: "Dramatization is not necessary. However, seriousness and systematic search for solutions are needed to overcome the crisis." And I quote further. "The government is in a position of considerable uncertainty. Events are hard to predict. But the turbulence needs to get used to." - you said. How can you understand these statements written in the Evening, but only in April did 10,000 people lose their jobs! Just in April, 10,000 people. And here you are saying, "Dramatization is not necessary," Mr. Secretary-General. This is, in my opinion, extremely worrying information, as well as an argument that the Government in which you are sitting has been working poorly and that the measures taken are too weak, poorly prepared and do not follow the challenges ahead of us in this area. With such alarming data, it is not possible to stay calm and wait daily for new unemployed who are increasing and forecasting every day. For illustration only. When Slovenia, Slovenia's former government of Janez Janša took over the leadership of Slovenia in 2004, 91,000 unemployed persons were also registered at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the completion of the mandate of the Government of Janez Janša 2008, around 59,000 unemployed persons were registered at the Employment Office. So 32,000 people got a new job. Now, in a row of five months, the government of Borut Pahor again lost the work of 23,000 people and only in April around, as I have already said, 10,000 people. Dear Mr. Secretary. These data clearly indicate that the response of the Government and the ministries is insufficient and, as you yourself have found, the situation in the Republic of Slovenia is serious. That's why at least what I expect of you - and not just me, including the Slovenes and Slovenians - is to stop saying nice things and move from words to actions. As Vice-President of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, I am very concerned about the developments in the fates of the people and their family members, who have lost their jobs and, of course, their lives are very busy. I therefore expect that the third package of measures will be more effective and, of course, I expect that this will also improve the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I am still behind my words. Let me say that we have mastered in Slovenia the measures we know well, including unemployment, which went through over 140,000 in the early 1990s. Thus, the current situation as a result of whether or not it has increased unemployment is not yet alarming. Let me say that he is indeed losing his job, a considerable number of workers, but also a considerable number of workers are getting jobs - less than in the economic periods, but more than 15,000 people have been reemployed in the last six months. If this is about numbers, let me say that according to the latest data, there were 83,000 people unemployed and that unemployment, of course, as you mentioned, increased from the lowest of 59,000 in the autumn to this number. Most, say, in regional units such as Nova Gorica, Kranj, Novo mesto, at least in Murski Sobota, Celje, Maribor - so where it was traditionally higher. As far as structure is concerned, this phenomenon is quite balanced. Young people aged 15-25 are around 13%, 30% are 50 years of age or older, 14% are first-time job seekers and 36.7% are long-term unemployed. In fact, this structure, under the terms "repaired" in view of the considerable inflow of this middle generation into unemployment. It is true that the number of job vacancies has fallen by almost 40%, but they also employ new workers, even at this time, even though we see only job redundancies and job losses - it is not true, the whole picture is that a large part of people are also new jobs. Why do I think the situation isn't alarming? I have another comparison to make. Under the criteria of the International Labour Organisation, we had a 5% unemployment rate in March, which ranks fourth among European countries, among EU countries, and this is a sign that we control this phenomenon much better than most EU members. Only the Netherlands, Austria and Cyprus are ahead of us in this regard. What did we do? In particular, I will point out that we are providing sufficient funds for passive measures, so that everyone who loses a job, of course, will also receive legitimate cash compensation under the law and that these compensations are paid very quickly. That's what I can say. The second set, which I have already described before, is a set of active employment policy measures, which we have allocated to it after the first €84 million rebalancing, which is an increase from 74 million, and the current proposal is to increase these funds to 110 million, which we believe will be sufficient to include most of those who need assistance through the activities of the Institute. And let me add this: by the end of April, 15,000 people had already been involved in these measures this year. The third special measure is also mentioned - the intervention law on partial subsidisation of short-term full-time employment, which we consider to be preserving at least 8,000 jobs with it. Otherwise, these workers would be redundant and would be among the registered unemployed today. This measure already includes 495 companies and 555 companies are registered for 61,000 and several persons. There is also a new law in the process, in this reference or in the May session of the National Assembly. This is the Law on Partial Reimbursement of Salary Remuneration, which will further limit the inflow [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u227	So, Minister, I'm very pleased with all the data you've given here, when you've talked about this, about employment, about people who are newly employed and so on. This, of course, cheers up everyone who sits here in this house, and so do I personally. At the same time, you also discussed the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. I will quote one article, and I am interested in your opinion on this, because this law is also mentioned in this article - this is the OECD report and it says here: "The increasingly acute economic situation has also been pointed out by the OECD report in Slovenia, which was published in the media at the end of last week. According to the OECD, the Pahor government should abolish as soon as possible the social measure on subsidisation of working time, with which government representatives are most praised. On the other hand, the OECD proposes that the government reconsider the reduction of social contributions to employers, which the Government itself assessed at the end of last year as the best anti-crisis proposal but withdrawn at the request of trade unions. The OECD, by criticising the Pahor government's anti-crisis measures, also indirectly states that the most important anti-crisis measure to relieve the economy and improve the liquidity of businesses this year is the definitive abolition of the pay-out tax, which is included in the inherited tax policy measures of Janez Janša." And Mr. Minister, in Del, Saturday, May 9th. Here, the Luxembourg Prime Minister, Mr Juncker, writes, says the following: "Mr Juncker warned at the traditional meeting of the 16 finance ministers of the member states of the Monetary Union about the social crisis, which threatens to increase unemployment. It seems to him that many politicians and governments are underestimating this problem. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It called on companies to avoid premature forgiveness and to be aware of their social responsibilities. [[...]] I personally think so, and probably the vast majority of Slovenians, that the Slovenian government is also this extremely important [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u229	So what I said earlier proves that we are not underestimating this phenomenon, that we are seriously monitoring it, that we are not dramatic because I say we are controlling it. As for the allegations you're saying are the OECD. We haven't officially seen them yet, so I can't comment on them as the OECD. The officers are writing a lot of things, as we know, and we'll comment on them when we see them. However, I can now say, however, that in our judgment, the choice to subsidise shorter working hours was a better alternative to reducing contributions. Why is that? Because it's cheaper. Lowering our contributions could also cost us up to EUR 300 million, as this would empty the cash registers that need to be filled - i.e. pension insurance, health insurance and other social programmes - in another way. This money wouldn't just come from itself, whereas it's only costing us a good 20 million so far. Of course, we are counting on this cost to increase with new applications, but it will be much smaller than a reduction in the contribution rates. Moreover, this measure is more targeted because it is targeted at companies that do not actually have orders. While lowering the contribution rates would also be a gift for those who do not need it. At the same time, I should point out that it is unnecessary to take care of the Treasury at the expense of subsidising the shorter working time, which is reportedly also expressed by the OECD, because this measure is such that we give a subsidy to a certain undertaking, but on the basis of the fact that this company does not forgive employees. We save in the cash register for unemployment benefits, and these employees continue to pay contributions that they would not otherwise have. Thus, in reality, it remains in the state treasury more than we have paid out of it. If that's anybody's concern, I think it's very unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 264 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the answer to my question raised to the Minister. With the answer given, I am partly satisfied, because I still say there is a lot of talk, but actually there is no action. Unemployment is on the rise from day to day, and if such a trend continues, it will soon occur, I am sure, to break public finances, as it is mass-expected that a huge financial hole will arise in the pension treasury, in the health treasury, in the high indebtedness of the state and in the enormous budget deficits, which will all trigger a spiral that will no longer be stopped. I appreciate that these arguments are so important that there is an urgent need for a broader debate in the National Assembly on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pojbic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member of Parliament, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 May, in the framework of the vote. Mr Alexander Zorn will now ask the Minister of Culture a question. The Minister isn't present, do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The president and everyone else you insist on? It is with regret that I note, of course, that the Minister is not among us and that my question will not have such joy and we will not get as vivid an answer as we expect, so I will wish this answer to a future meeting. The question is very simple: Has the Minister already counted all the cultural content that is supposed to be lacking on public television? Then they put them on her desk from there, carefully counted, qualified, and briefly proved that they were not missing. Because the answer to this mysterious question is not just that. We have given him at least two meetings of the Committee on Culture, Education and Youth, and finally my parents have had a multi-annual plenary session. It is said that the question will have to be answered slowly: Where the hell are the content that is supposed to be missing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you. The Minister will answer this question at the next meeting. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Mr. Minister is away, will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Slovenia is becoming a huge junkyard of advertising boards. The Regulation on Limit values for Light Pollution, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 30 August 2007, gives positive effects in a number of segments resulting in reduced light pollution and reduced electricity consumption for lighting. According to the external advertising industry segment, the regulation is extremely goods and allows the installation of an unlimited number of billboards, which can also be illuminated. In the last decade, Slovenia has been rewrote long and thin. And every year, thousands of new billboards are set up. The established Western democracies of advertising boards do not seem to have, or only have, large shopping centers. Advertisers are also dangerous for traffic. The primary task of the billboards is to attract attention. We don't look at the road this time, so the boards are dangerous. Although the Roads Act provides for safety belts, advertising companies try to avoid this by installing giant panels outside protected belts. New panels with so-called ice diodes are extremely dangerous because they are illuminated because they change the image, automatically attract attention in each change and are a real security threat. Such is the advertising pan on Pillar TR3 opposite the National Assembly building, which illuminates the bedrooms of thousands of Ljubljana’s citizens and consequently endangers their health. "New TV" is, say, in Portorož and holy in the bedroom of the most expensive Hotel Kempinski. On Slovenian highways we already have 70 giant poles, big as a basketball court. Dear Members and Members, Slovenia has been among the members of the European Union a record of the number of dead in traffic for many years, and we are still moving and allowing the installation of misleading advertising panels around roads, intersections and so on in unlimited numbers. I propose that the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport draw up legislation prohibiting any advertising outside the settlements and at crossings and traffic signs. However, the State should tax advertising panels, except for the inscriptions of objects, as in Germany. This would generate more than €100 million a year in the budget, but at the same time it would [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] preserve the beauty of Slovenian landscape and improve safety in traffic. [[...]] It is time for us to make an analysis after two years of this Regulation. That's why I'm asking the minister, "How?"
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u236	Thank you. Would you like the Minister to respond to the next meeting orally? Yeah. Then it will be done. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary. We've talked a lot about erased, compensation, and so on. We told each other everything. In a way, we stayed on different shores. However, at the time of the last interpolation against you you built the defense of interpolation on two important points and in the air it somehow remained as if you were right. It's not like that. The first syntagma you have repeated over and over again, even in the media and in defence of interpolation, was that there was no connection between the issue of decisions so-called deleted and awarded damages. You have mentioned this many times, in the debate as well as in the media. You even said quite harshly - there is no euro to this day. Of course you can do that again today, but still. Look, I have a famous decision before me, this is decision number 2, I believe that you know it, where a lady at the District Court in Maribor Buta Krasniqi filed an action, and in this regard the court said: "The complaint before the issue of that supplementary decision, the damage she suffered could not be determined because she did not know when the offence would end." This means that, of course, the court has now said that this is not true. That there is a link between these decisions and damages. It is therefore possible to provide for compensation only when this Decision is issued. Now, I wouldn't be insulting if I said, "Yeah, legal knowledge has failed you!" I'm not going to say this because I don't want to be offensive to you as a lawyer - you're stressing your legal knowledge a lot. I'd rather say, did the courts surprise you with such decisions? Maybe. The second thing you mentioned all along concerns this statute of limitations. In fact, you've always said that the case law is clear, more or less all cases are out of date. The limitation periods begin to run - these are your words - by giving a supplementary decision, but - so they begin to run not by giving a supplementary decision, but from the date on which the Constitutional Court judgment was published. However, the Court said: "According to the Court's judgment, the deadline for the expiry of the action in question began to run when the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by Decision 5. 3. 2004" - this is Mr Bohinca's decision - "found that the defendant has a residence here." [[..]] So, both of your allegations are dismissed. I'm asking for your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u239	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members. Dear Member Gorenak. Thank you very much for not being offensive to your question. It is true that we have already said a lot on the subject deleted, but the apparent determination of the part of the opposition policy to oppose the provisions of the Constitutional Court has not yet been taken into account. Even if we had talked about it and the National Assembly had decided on that April 1st. Let me recall once again, and what has not changed this month and a half is that the issuance of supplementary decisions is a consequence of a constitutional decision by the Constitutional Court. And that is why I still claim what I have always claimed is, as such, independent of the decisions of the courts in the compensation claims decided solely by the courts and individually. The basic rule of compensation law is that compensation comes from a harmful event. In this case, the adverse event was unlawfully deleted. In order to obtain an unlawful deletion, the Ministry of the Interior did not decide and does not say in the supplementary decisions, but this is stated in the Constitutional Court’s decision and contrary to one such decision, which is not yet legally binding, I could show ten others who are writing and justifying otherwise. But we both probably know that this doesn't lead anywhere, that each one of them has his own decision about height, legally speaking, to comment. That is why I prefer to stay with what I can say as a politician, and therefore I do not give estimates of the obsolete deadlines because I cannot give them. Since this is a matter of the competent courts and they will decide on individual cases of claims for damages erased. But I can say that the practice so far has given rise to a lot of age than it has. If I stay because you haven't actually asked me anything about the numbers that was officially written in your question, I'll skip to compensation. It goes, as you have already found, even today the financial consequences are still nothing, because there has still been no legal decision reached on the basis of which compensation would be awarded. And some other information that might be interesting. To date, 36 cases have been brought together. Twenty cases were decided at the first stage. In seventeen cases, a rejection judgment was issued. In two cases it was decided on the basis and in one case on the basis of the amount. This is a well-known judgment in the Tudorović case, which is not yet legally binding, of course. To date, at the second stage, the Supreme Court ruled on eleven cases, in which eight cases it confirmed the rejection of the judgment of the Court of First Instance, in which case the judgment was partially annulled and sent back to the first stage of the judgment. In one case, the judgment was fully annulled and returned to the first stage. In one case, however, it was discarded and returned to the first stage. Of course, regardless of what the situation is today and what the decisions of the courts are, if a court of law decides that the defendant is entitled to compensation, then we will pay such compensation as the rule of law. As we pay it, let's say, only in the previous year, for compensation claims against the country amounting to slightly more than two million and a half euros. Of course, none of these claims were for deletion. That is right, the rule of law does so and these amounts are not being debated in the National Assembly. But we can probably all think that it's not as politically sensitive as it is erased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u241	Of course, thank you very much. I am running out of time to ask the other part of the question where I ask you in fact: How many decisions have been issued so far during your term of office? That's why I'm asking now. I'm glad you're okay. In fact, in your interpretation you said that the beginning of the statute of limitations is the Constitutional Court's decision, today you say you are not going into this area. In this way, if you were to say that you are sorry or that you have made a mistake, you would be even happier. It's because all people are confusing, and so am I. And that's why it is. That's one thing. You were talking about the rule of law again, and so on. Look, a few days ago in my parliamentary group - one woman, one last time, another; 3,000 euros for three years Dachau; and Todorović - we know what. Probably when it's legal. This is not a legal country for all of us. At least that's what I said to this lady. And there's one more thing. It would be true that this would be the rule of law for all of us. Indeed, this lady received this by some law, which was adopted by the National Assembly. But Mr. Todorovic got this by constitutional decision, which you swear to and do not want to go to constitutional law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Like we suggested. [[...]] That's one thing. But there's another thing. I would like to warn you and take advantage of this time, look, Mr. Borut Pahor said today a famous sentence which is of historical importance to me: 15.36 - I have noticed, in the magnetogram you can check: "There is no one here who would deny that laws apply to all of us that none of us should comment on the judgments of the courts or these [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Respect." In short, it confirms that I was right to comment on a decision, but you invited me - by mistake, in my opinion - to resign. It would be good if you didn't do it in the future, because I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u243	Dear Member! Since I see that you are at least trying to follow my statements, then we would know that my statement shows that, in principle, politics, of course, can comment on the decisions of the courts, including the Constitutional Courts. Only through its political way of comment is it undermining the very foundations of constitutional regulation, the mud of the Constitutional Court and making it a field of political accounting - this is not right, especially if it is the person who runs the parliamentary committee for internal policy, justice and public administration. When you just said that I should apologize for saying something wrong, I am a politician and as a politician I make consistent statements. I've told you several times that I can't or won't make judgments because they're going to be court-martialed. However, I would like to hear from you: I am truly sorry, but I see that in this country of law the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and I understand the Ministry of the Interior to comply with them. Last but not least, the Minister took an oath before this Parliament. Otherwise - Mr. Todorovic has not received anything yet. It would therefore be right not to deceive you with such statements. However, since you have touched new numbers or numbers that have now been on the plan somewhere in the beginning, once again a brief explanation that I have already given: the Ministry’s professional services have been working for months to produce deleted numbers; they have signed their decision and I trust them completely. The reason for the different numbers is the length of the period in which this problem was resolved, the change in information solutions for database management - from manual records to new modern management bases - and of course also due to changes in managers. The current state of the issued decisions is: 2130 has been issued, of which 1922 have already been sent. Some 300 to 320 are still in the resolution process, for which procedures are expected to be completed by the end of this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on the muck thing because you don't have a chance to answer, and it doesn't even make sense. Let us go to this basic question of the Member States. In my question to the Member States, I argued in fact that at the time of the interpretation you relied on two things that proved to be completely inaccurate. This is that there is no link between the decisions of the Ministry of the Interior and the compensations awarded - not yet the legal authority to be precise. And secondly, the statutes of limitations are outdated, as you claimed to be the decision of the Constitutional Court and not your decision. The court ruled that this was completely overturned. I believe you believe the court, too. That is why I think it is very appropriate that, in fact, the National Assembly in the general debate - and I suggest that - says a few words on this subject. If the Minister advocates non-accurate data, non-containing data, this seems to me to have an impact on Members in a way that they can decide differently than they have decided. That is why it seems to me that - the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister - we say at the debate on this subject at the meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 19 May, in the framework of the vote. Mr Miran Görek will now ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! With each new mandate of the new school minister, the school system is changing, reorganising and supplementing. That's traditional already. The knowledge of students and students is increasingly weak. Students and students have virtually no strong national consciousness and nationality of the nation, they are aware of their rights, and they forget their obligations very quickly. I ask the Minister of Education: How does the proposed amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education intend to improve the results after compulsory primary and secondary education? How to ensure greater school safety and to prevent increasing school violence and to address the growing problem of illicit drugs? There is an urgent need to be integrated into the school environment to address the drug problem, as this is where we see the potential for young people's awareness and the possibility of familiarising them with the risk of using illicit drugs. The practice so far seems to be ineffective. Just stigmatizing issues and factors doesn't lead anywhere. The drug between young people and society is becoming a reality and requires a systematic professional and educationally different approach within the school environment. I also ask the Minister: How do you intend to regulate school management and rational financing of school programmes in accordance with the amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, and to ensure that teachers are primarily involved in teaching and training, rather than increasingly having to deal with red tape and administration? With regard to school management, I refer mainly to the organisation of the composition of the boards of institutions, the appointment of the discharge of directors, where the appointment process takes so long and meaningless, with so many actors that I would have previously elected, for example, the Pope or the Secretary-General of the United Nations. And not to mention anachronisms in Articles 53a and 59. Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, namely procedures for appointment and discharge. Here, too, in our country, there is a unique process. I would like to add something further to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u249	President, honourable Member, Members, Member of Parliament. Thank you for asking first. I am pleased with all the issues that concern the field of education, however, because education can improve as much as it enjoys the support of the public and if there is constant tension, there is a constant discussion of the evaluation of what is happening in our school area. Now, first of all, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to refer to sharp criticisms and grades in the field of education. I think that Slovenian education is a good education, that the school system in Slovenia is good, that we have teachers who work well. We also have a school system that educates and teaches good teachers. This seems to me to need a starting point when we are dealing with problems and problems that also exist in the field of education. What I know of ministers in the Republic of Slovenia, they have done well all the time to raise the quality of the school system and create conditions within which students and students would acquire the highest possible level of knowledge and, of course, also be raised into good citizens and patriots. One part of the matter is always solved with some changes that have been said here in the beginning. The purpose of my mandate is not to take as much action as possible, but to take the time to think about it. That is why I have also set up a group to hold this thorough debate on what has been going on in the area of education during these years of independence, to analyse global trends and to prepare some starting points for action. Within this, the Law on Financing Education and Education also has its place. The law comes to Parliament in June, the government has already adopted it, first of all with some minimal changes concerning the introduction of pupils into sacred secondary schools and students' homes, the introduction of five instead of three teachers into holy schools, and thus we want to make it clear that the school is primarily the educational process and is primarily the responsibility of teachers. In addition, I would like to point out that a good school can only work in partnership with the local community, the national community, parents and teachers. This seems an important introduction to all the details and problems. So when we talk about drug policy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia just called for coordination in the drug field at its last meeting. If I recall correctly, for example, the previous government has not been able to name this coordination, which is legally binding, in four years. I do not promise that any formal establishment is already sufficient guarantee for a successful action. If you ask me, it seems to me that it would be a good solution to set up a drug office that would lead a comprehensive drug policy. We will see how the government will decide on this case, but this is a problem to deal with. The problem is so acute in schools, especially in recent years in primary schools and secondary schools, where we try to solve the problem by introducing more and more of these social workers and people [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There's more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u250	You can finish the sentence. You had 15 seconds. Good. Thank you, Minister. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u251	Yes, please. You also mentioned changes in the organization of boards of institutions. I know there will be a lot of talk about this law, but I would still mention something, because it's already obvious and a little strange in the proposals. I don't mind students, students joining the world of schools or students at home. But it is a little strange to me that at least it would be added that full-year students, students, because they do not vote only on their own matters, this is a community of students, but also decide to adopt curricula, to implement curricula, to appoint directors, to evaluate the programme and so on, not to list all the powers of the holy schools. As for the appointment of the directors themselves, I have already said in the introduction, this is actually sometimes strange to the world, as if Members of the National Assembly had previously organised referendums for citizens before each vote or any decision they make in Parliament and had an opinion, for example, on the election of the Government, or the President of the National Assembly. Because that is actually how it is under the current legislation that they need the opinion of a teacher for the world of the institution, for example, even though they have their representatives there, the opinion of the Council of Parents, even though they have their representatives. Not to mention. There's a lot of stuff about this law that you're preparing, that we're going to discuss, and I want to draw attention to it in good faith, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Then the matter will go faster through and a better law to be adopted. And I'd also like to ask you a few questions about the departmental regulations, because there are some strange things here, too. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u253	We both have problems. We don't have much time. I'm sure we won't be able to answer all the questions about the school field, but at least we're keeping a thread running through the National Assembly. I agree that the governors' elections are too complicated. As soon as I arrived at this place, I found that there were sometimes 26 opinions to be collected in the process of electing a director, which could then not count anything at the end, because the members of the world could vote on their own conscience and this could also happen in a number of schools. So here we'll see what we can do to reduce the process. But let me tell you, the main problem that we have not only in the school field is a high degree of mistrust. A great degree of mistrust in the school's field here appears to be a lack of trust in the principal, I received letters about, say, different parents when there was a discussion about the possibility of establishing a permanent mandate, that this was indeed for some strange people, administrators. So I asked myself at times, and I also replied back to those parents why they would send their children to school if they had such a negative attitude toward their school principals. So here we have problems, I also told the principals that the attitude of the Slovenian public towards them and their work is very negative and that is bad. Schools are highly valued by the Slovenian public and the work of directors is not. So, there must be something to be done here, and it also shows up in the process, because people are afraid that there will be some wrong or autocratic and I don't know what kind of beast - here I don't think of a former minister - for a principal, there are some mechanisms that eventually make the process very difficult for them, and in fact they don't make school work any better. So I agree here, your warning is in place and we will try to do something to facilitate the election of directors and the introduction of real-life sites to get the most quality people to these places as well. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible, a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u254	Havela. Mr. Rado Likar Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u255	Thank you. Since the matter, as you find out by the Minister himself, is very broad and complex, I would nevertheless suggest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the second paragraph of Article 246, in particular with regard to the areas of drug abuse in school environments, alcohol and so on, and increasing violence, that one detailed meeting should be held on this subject and appropriate measures should be introduced, of course, the Ministry's task. As far as organisation is concerned, financing is in the process of preparing a new law or amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. I therefore propose to this assembly that a detailed discussion be held on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Györek to hold an interview at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 19 May, in the framework of the votes. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister of Finance, who is absent. Do you want to set it up anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although the Minister is absent, I expect and ask him to answer my question at one of the following meetings. My question is. According to the media, the mutual health insurance company is dealing with a loss. Loss under the provisions of the Insurance Act can be borne out of profit, according to the reserves created by the Mutual in recent years. However, the Mutual Profit should also apply to the costs of introducing new insurance products, which was enabled by the recently adopted amendment to the Insurance Act, even though the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group objected to this amendment. So I ask you, Mr Minister: Who and from what sources will cover the loss created by the Mutual? And: Can it happen that the loss will have to cover more than 900 thousand members or insurers through higher premiums or even through recapitalisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr Finance Minister will answer your question at the next meeting. Lucky Friend will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear, distinguished ministers! As you know, I come as an MP from Primorska, and at the time of the workers' forgiveness, when they are bankrupt, it would be right to look at the causal link sometimes, why bankruptcy is taking place. Primorska’s meat-processing industry, also known as a good brand abroad, was also financed by the state portfolio, as well as by European funds, and was committed to bankruptcy overnight. The brand, as already said, which could also market the name of Slovenia, is somehow left to fate, workers are gravely thrown onto the road and the Wolf family, which was responsible for running this company, is now almost unharmed, as they continue to operate with great wealth and private businesses. Of course, the Slovenian National Party is interested, and I am also personally, Primorce and Primorka also: How much money was that, a respected minister almost half-privately received by this company? Has this money really been spent on the rehabilitation and needs of the Primorska Mesoworking Industry? And of course: Maybe this money didn’t go to their development programs? The fact is that their companies do well and that they, as a family, also own MIP brands. And I want to know: Who will return this money that Europe wants today? Will it be the wolf family that is free and walks through Primorskie, shopping with its wealth, or will it be the state - the Ministry of Agriculture specifically, so yours? I believe in your principles, your principles, your respectable minister, and I expect the right answers. Of course, we have common problems with the living wolf population, but we have successfully saved you - also with the help of the Environment Minister. I wonder if there's gonna be a specific shot for some "wolf" walking on two legs? You'd be right to be. It would be right to have some house investigation, possession of property and insight into the origin of property, because this wolf family is responsible for the fates of many Primors who are now unemployed and, of course, also Prekmurci, and despite the company having a good program, today is actually the fate of these people in want. They depend on social transfers. And in this series of questions, I would also like to know: [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ensure that this brand - as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of course - will live on? [[...]] Are you looking for any programs with banks? And if you give yourself the chance to [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u261	Dear President, honourable Member Friend Happy! Thank you for your question and I would say so, I share with you somehow the view that it is rude that so, I could say, a famous brand disappears from Slovenia. We cannot boast of very many such brands, the MIP was one of them, and I agree with that, and I don't care if that happens. The MIP was also a kind of development-oriented undertaking and such development-oriented companies that met the conditions, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Agency for Agricultural Markets, in line with the public tender procedures in force, also allowed them to obtain certain funds to co-finance certain investments. The MIP, together with Pomurka - two legal persons, but for one administrator - received 2 million €650,000 of these investment incentives from 2002 to 2008. Half of this is from the European cash register, half from the national cash register. There are differences since the first aid started at the time the Sapard was in force, there were two thirds of European aid at the time and 50% of European aid was in the single programming document, but in the end, this is equivalent in terms of the sum. Now, the conditions for obtaining these funds are prescribed, they are strict enough and those requested must complete the difficult documentation before the appropriations are granted. The Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, in cooperation with external experts, shall verify the adequacy and economic viability of investments. I hope these external experts have been very precise and very precise and very professional. However, during the period when they received these funds, as I said, the MIP was a booming company, with a developmental focus, with modern technologies and also with a successful brand, one of the few that has also occurred in the markets of Europe, especially in Germany, until recently. In short, it's all good and good. They also did not receive the funds until the investment was completed and until someone verified that the investment was completed in accordance with the approved project. So the funds were used deliberately at least in the opinion of those who controlled it. I didn't do it myself, of course not. The experts who did it were paid for it. Well, that was the first part of the story. The second part of the story is that Europe demands that five years after the completion of the investment continue production under the same brand. Since the MIP was obliged to produce by 2013, of course we are in trouble because the production shut down in 2009. European funds must be recovered in accordance with the rules. Approximately EUR 1,300,000. At the same time, of course, it would be logical that what they received was not the same - a condition is the same for national funds, in order to also return to the state treasury. As you know, bankruptcy for both companies was introduced in early April. For the MIP and for Pomurka and we are, but the ministry or the state in this case, because in this case the country is a bankruptcy beneficiary, but not a priority. He's just a normal beneficiary. First of all, they're entitled to pay their debts to the workers and I think that's the way it is. In short, we have a modern technologically equipped company, we have a famous brand, we have a course and, of course, we are ahead of the fact that we will have to. as long as it is not possible for these funds to be returned from bankruptcy to the European Treasury and to the national Treasury to cover this, of course. In short, the matter is difficult and in this case I wanted this information to be dealt with by the Government. [[...]] The government has dealt with this, adopted it, and, with regard to the follow-up of these legal measures, this is within the scope of the State's defence. Perhaps I would also say that in such cases, of course, the procedure continues with bankruptcy first and then with the operation of the legal authorities. You were talking about the brand. The problem is that it is also not fully clear whether [[...]] [[End of discussion.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u263	We're both kind of running out of time. Minister, I come from another constituency where he is - I know you're not a client candidate - the United List has almost all the candidates. There are some Members, some of whom have come to the National Assembly as a reserve because they have been recruited from a number of Members. Say, Mr. Clown and the others, but it doesn't matter. Except for Mr. Krapež, who came in. The marines expect you to solve this case immediately. Why? Because this company had a large multi-application factor on the rest of agriculture, and this is a very sensitive issue. Suddenly there were not only 270 Prekmurcs without a job, but almost all MIPs, but other farmers who supplied them with raw materials and so on. I wonder: Who will pay for this, and why is there no prosecution at the level of government? These gentlemen, the Wolf family, have left as great winners. Imagine, they offered to resign, and they also resigned and left the company. The company is new, it is equipped with new technology and we expect the Government to find a new manager. Some fresh capital that this company will put back into operation and market a brand. For this trade mark of the meat-processing industry [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The seaside is recognizable. [[...]] And I expect a clear answer: Will any prosecution be carried out? So, what kind of detention is it for the guards? And of course: When will a new manager be found to enable the company to start? We know that this readiness is, and if there is knowledge, will and desire in this room to continue with this production, the Government must see it and, of course, make it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u265	I'll keep going. The government had been informed of the matter before, and it had decided on it. The government was prepared to enter management with a guarantee of 12 million euros, and we expected that from banks, and if that happened, the bank would also be part of the administrative authorities. However, the banks withdrew from this management and the State also withdrew the guarantee because the old owners stayed where they were. There are now certain interviews at the Ministry of Finance regarding the possibility of entry of some new owners. It is important to talk about the country's debt, if the trade mark persists and production continues, that there is a certain possibility that there will be no return of sanctions. That's theoretically possible. Europe also recognises, I could say, the mechanism of 'higher power'. It is now a global crisis, a higher power - no, that is what Europe will decide. In these cases, it reduces the reimbursement of half of the funds, so to speak, instead of a million 300 - 600 thousand. In short, there are a lot of vague things, the bankruptcy process, based on this bankruptcy procedure, will be determined how the bankruptcy will run out, maybe this will be recovered from the bankruptcy mass - whatever the case. Otherwise, the State Defence Office will introduce all the necessary legal procedures for the possible and possible enforcement of the debt owed to the European Union by the MIP or, in this case, by the owners of the MIP at the summit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u267	Absolutely! I would like to explain why it is necessary after a broader debate. I had already talked to the minister in the lobby about this problem before, and we were both united that this went beyond just his department. So, at the very least, here must give an answer to the financial ministry as well as perhaps Mrs Minister of the Interior, Kresalov, will have something to say about it and probably Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs would have something to say. In short, because this is the biggest maritime problem and because the Primors expect an immediate solution to this problem, I would suggest that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly and, as has already been said, commit the Government, while also giving it the opportunity with our demands, which will certainly be loud, to take swift and immediate action. I would just like to say this: the banks, as I know them, are willing to repair this debt if they have a good recovery program in the background. The banks are prepared in essence to provide a statute to this company, which, as has already been said, has excellent quality, a recognised brand and, of course, also to finance new programmes if the Government can also guarantee and issue guarantees to support credits or other new business decisions that are necessary in this area. However, I would like this case not to be left so unresolved, even by those responsible, because I would like to remind you of one simple fact: I myself was a six-year-old director of the company. The Director shall be legally responsible for the legitimate conduct of the company. And we cannot help but overlook that one family that has usurped this activity and has also taken all the competitive businesses they have abroad so that today they can collect profits and new added value from this title of these products, while workers have no wages, are on the road dependent on social transfers. We must not allow this to happen if we are in a legal state, then something must happen today or tomorrow that will solve this situation. Mr. Wolf and the other wolves in Primorsk should not be free. That's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u268	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Srečk Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 May, in the framework of the votes. This concludes the first round of questions. We are moving on to a second round, namely, Mrs Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to everyone in the second round. Mr Minister, many generations of pensioners who retired from 1994 to 1999, are convinced that they were significantly injured in the calculation of pensions. Following the then applicable pension base system and the then applicable law, the then administrative board of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute has further reduced each year the already-spent pension in the coordination process. In 1994, the pension base was reduced by 0.25% and the year was reduced by 4.44%, by 10.58% in 1996, by 10.70%, by 15.23% in 1998 and 11.46% in 1999 by 11.46%. Many of these pensioners are also visiting us today in sent-mail offices to prove that they have been deprived. In a way, I can predict your answer. You will certainly claim that these negative reconciliations did not negatively affect the level of pensions and that the situation of these pensioners is not worse than that of the former or later pensioners. You might even say that these pensioners proved it on a better and mathematical acrobatics. However, these pensioners who come to the parliamentary offices claim otherwise, for after a decade and more they realize that they have substantially lower pensions than those who have retired before or in 2000 and later. Such a measure did not provide for the same conditions for retirement, since the then Administrative Committee of the Pension Insurance Office adopted a pension conversion decision each year. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Have you dealt with this issue for quite a while in your mandate? And: How do you plan to solve this problem, or perhaps it is not a problem for you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Members Friday. Now the starting point of the pension system is that it has to be fair to all insurers. This means that the pension must depend primarily on the length of the working age and the height of the pension base, not on the time when someone went to retirement. For the Slovenian pension system in the 1990s, as you specify, it was designed in such a way that it would not cause any distinctions in the amount of pensions recognised in different years. In order to achieve the desired objective, so-called corrections have been installed into the system. These are the percentages that you have mentioned in your question. These corrections are intended to ensure that the individual’s pension rate was fair. So it depends on the supplementary retirement age and the contributions paid, but not, for example, on the rise in wages and inflation in the year in which this account was made. The situation was not the same every year and adjustments to these corrections were also taking place. So they were once bigger, they were second smaller. Some time at the beginning of the 1990s positive and then negative, therefore related to two, key factors, wages and inflation. So, as you state, it is true that the alignments after years differed, but they did not negatively affect the level of pensions established during this period in the sense that the situation of pensioners would deteriorate compared to those who had been retired earlier, but this ensured that all who had retired between 1992 and 1999 could retire under the same conditions. The new system was then introduced in 2000 and so-called year-on-year adjustments were also arranged here, but this is now a question of the functioning of this system after 2000. I must add that a constitutional initiative has been launched against the description of coordination, which is also controversial for you. It is because the initiators were convinced that the coordination between pensions recognised in different periods was not consistent with the Constitution and the laws, but the Constitutional Court decided that such an adjustment or equivalence was compatible with the Constitution. In short, this case has already been brought before the Constitutional Court and therefore we cannot conclude otherwise than that, in the regulation of these pensions in the 1990s, they were not wronged, but that these valorisation factors were those that allowed equal treatment for all pensioners. Now, if the individual pensioner still feels that he has been wronged, I suggest that he also turn directly to the Ministry or the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and we give him adequate information on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I was kind of expecting him. Those who speak to me in Koroška, in the office of the Member, have already addressed the Office and also the Ministry. I'm asking you: Is it fair for someone who retired in December 1999 to have a 10% to 15% lower pension than for those who retired in January 2000? In particular, the ironworks came to me with two steaks and showed me this particular case. 35, 40 years worked in a steel mill, he had the same education as his colleague, he had the same working age, he paid the same amount for his pension, and today there was a difference between 10 and 15%. I don't think we can talk about some equality before the law, but it's a certain anomaly that was created in this system at the time. And despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has issued a decision such as it has issued, I think it would be good if we just had a little more fun around it and tried to get rid of the injustices that occurred at the time, one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u275	Well, I can't add any more than that I have to make the decision that the Constitutional Court has taken, or I can't even comment on it. It should also be borne in mind that at the time of the transition to the new pension system after 2000, as you can see, two different levels of revaloration are also due to the change in the system. There is, however, a new system or a modernisation of this system in preparation, where we can address this issue again. That's all I can answer right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister of Transport, who is absent. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u277	Yes, of course, Mr President. Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present. The Minister and I have already agreed in the hallway that he will answer in writing, but I would nevertheless like to ask the question that we will know where the starting points are, because he would give some starting points for the answer or directions that I am particularly interested in within the question. It is a matter of finding, in Slovenia, that highways are too expensive compared to other countries. Some prices can be compared to construction in difficult terrain somewhere in Canada or Siberia, where the so-called "permafrost" is the special conditions for the construction of the highway. And maybe at this first point it would still somehow be, but once we get the highway, but individual sections can also be very somewhat constructed and, cartoonized, just for the opening column at the opening ceremony, those who have to repair or repair the road are already driving. However, the situation on the ground on local and regional roads is much worse. Winter leaves ruin behind every year. It is not even systematic in this year’s year, at least in some areas, that this situation has begun to be rectified. And a person hesitates to ask what the procedures are from the invitation to tender to take over. I come from the economy and these key levels are known to me, we had to stick closely to them, especially, for example, in the exploitation of it was experimental production, so after analogy here experimental operation, then in production there was a guarantee of suppliers and so I ask the Minister: Do contractors guarantee and for how long do they guarantee and what, in the framework of the guarantee, for example, fix that the Ministry does not have costs? How does quality control of implementation work? How's the invitation? Now, given the acute situation, there is even a danger when the financial criteria are stricter so that quality can be affected by this account. So, the process itself is in key stages. Where are those checkpoints, and what is the Ministry holding in hand, or what else plans to force more binding operators to do better work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you. As the Minister has told you, he will answer in writing. Mr Vito Rožej will ask the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u279	Dear Prime Minister, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, you are still insisting! I hope that there is nothing more than a case where there is no symbolism in that this is the question that I will ask today, the last, because sometimes I feel that the subject that I will ask is sometimes the last one on the government's agenda. In Slovenian independent history, in the field of local self-government, we have seen the division of various municipalities to just microscopic dimensions. One rare case is that it was not a division, but a merger was an example of the Ljubljana congregations. That is why today we know Ljubljana Municipality, the city of Ljubljana, the capital of our country. And you will likely agree to perform some other functions that no other congregation can. It is estimated that, with various migrations, students and so on, we live in this city for up to half a million people. On one European scale, we can say that it is a metropolis. Unlike smaller municipalities, those that have broken down, and under the legislation governing the financing of local communities, certain funds from the State have somehow been encouraged to be as small as possible, the Municipality of Ljubljana has been, in fact, "rewarded" in recent years by reducing the resources available for the functioning of the municipality to carry out the tasks imposed by the law from the state budget. I therefore hope that the law on the capital I am asking you about is intended to reduce this discrimination that Ljubljana has experienced. And that's why I want to know: How is the capital law implemented? How is the financing of the capital implemented through this law? How are the additional tasks and burdens that the Ljubljana capital status brings in the form of financial consequences identified? How is the signing of the contract between the Prime Minister of the Slovenian Government and the mayor of the Slovenian capital?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, Mr Member, for the question. If I first explain what the law on the capital governs, then we can also understand what further activities are like. As you know, in the area of the capital, public authorities and bodies of the Ljubljana Municipality meet in the exercise of their powers. In fact, the law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia lays the groundwork for regulating these interrelationships between the public authorities and the bodies of the City of Ljubljana, in the part where this relates to the performance of tasks of importance on the one hand for the development of the capital, and this is mainly related to the regulation of the conditions for the operation of state authorities and organisations and representations. The law is thus without prejudice to the original jurisdiction of the municipal municipality, but as the capital it undertakes to take into account the special interest of the State in the performance of its tasks associated with the capital as the administrative centre of the State. The provisions of the law relate to the legislation in force, in essence to the organisation and implementation of the tasks of the State administration and local government authorities and public finances. The law also clearly defines that it is in the interest of the State and the municipal community to ensure coordinated programming and development in various areas, both spatial, investment, state and local, as well as the coordinated implementation of tasks and projects under the competence of state and municipal authorities. However, the capital law does not directly govern the financing of programmes and tasks carried out under it by the City Hall, or will be implemented jointly by the State and the municipal municipality, in accordance with the agreement which the law permits and which is currently under discussion between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the capital. Thus, the financing of the additional burdens of the Municipality of Ljubljana is carried out with its budget, whose revenues are generated in the same way as in all other municipalities under the Law on the Financing of the municipalities, then by co-financing investments from the state budget and free transfer of state property, while Ljubljana has the same position as all other municipalities. The Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia does not, in fact, take into account the specific cost and investment burden of the Municipality of Ljubljana or its possible advantages, since it is the capital. That is why the Government has decided that the Government is also involved in this year's normative programme in amending the capital law and in preparing the amendment, the Government has decided that, as a result of the presence of the main state authorities and foreign representatives in the MOL area, that this presence may, on the one hand, constitute additional tasks and additional financial burdens for the municipality and, on the other hand, may provide an additional opportunity for the development of the capital to prepare a proposal, professionally justified, possible additional financing of the capital through the capital law, based on a previous analysis of the financial relations between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. This analysis will identify additional tasks and burdens, as well as the advantages that the Municipality of Ljubljana may have in the form of financial consequences due to the status of the capital. The analysis will also be supported by a comparative legal analysis of the status quo of the main cities in the Member States of the European Union, indicating the way in which the specific tasks they carry out are further financed. The preparation of the analysis is in the final stage and we expect that the deadline will be 2 June and will also be dealt with by the Government and the possibility will also be given for these relations to be concrete in the wake of the amendment of the law. The current law, however, allows for an agreement to be concluded. The agreement is a matter of coordination between the Municipality of Ljubljana around common substantive tasks, for which the letter is only an agreement. It has the form of a letter of intent and is no longer a direct basis for financing the activities that are financed from the sources that I have previously mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. Madam Minister, I hope that the new law that is being prepared will not now be an excuse for this agreement, agreement, agreement or, as you say, a letter of intent not to be implemented as soon as possible and that, after all, from the sources that you have mentioned, the activities that must take place in the capital will be financed as soon as possible. I am not sure, I find it difficult to share with you that there are also some advantages with regard to funding which Ljubljana should take advantage of. At least not in these circumstances now that the legislation governing the financing of municipalities so drastically discriminates against Ljubljana compared to the other municipalities, with the exception of three others, which also go beyond certain censorships. And I think there is no great need for a comparative analysis with the European capitals to see that there is no European capital, which would be so underfunded by the country as Ljubljana. Indeed, before the introduction of this new law on the financing of municipalities, Ljubljana was able to finance its activities from state resources by about two thirds. From now on, it has raised its expenditure a little, and the country's revenue has fallen, so now it represents about a third. I think you'll find out quickly from this analysis how and what steps are needed in the future. Why do I feel that it is imperative that any agreement be put into effect as soon as possible? Of course, from the clear needs that Ljubljana has and its sources of obligations, which it also carries out for the wider region in the field of child protection, road transport, rail transport and elsewhere. And if not otherwise, because a quarter of the Members who support this government come from Ljubljana, we are all coalition Members and some other Member of Parliament benefit more from the service of public protection, social protection and so on. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u285	The content of the arrangement with the city’s congregation runs very intensely. And both sides believe that most of the content is consistent. I also believe that the conditions for signing this agreement are, of course, certain open issues that the mayor and the President of the Government are discussing still needing to be resolved. By this substantive agreement, we have actually defined those joint activities that are the intersection of the city and as the capital and the country. As far as comprehensive analysis is concerned, I would say that it may be very useful as a starting point for discussion in Parliament. When the law comes to the attention that Members, all who are present here, can create a comprehensive picture of what burdens the capital has, and on the other hand, let us not neglect that certain revenue can also be generated from this title and that this picture is also given to Members at the table and thus easier to make decisions. The purpose of this analysis was also to assess the additional costs incurred by the Municipality of Ljubljana in comparison with the other municipalities in the capital and, of course, to compare this with the additional revenue generated by it because it is the seat of state institutions and state authorities. I think that this analysis will actually facilitate the debate in Parliament and thus facilitate the consideration of the law in Parliament and is useful in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 19 May, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
