ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to proceed with the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: the victory of Jelinčič nobles, Milenko Ziherl and Jožef Jerovšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u2	Dear President! Dear Members, distinguished Members! Education is a very important issue and it is right to deal with it in this way. Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of Slovenia have a good opinion on education, because it is certainly one of the best systems in Slovenia since. Therefore, education should be nurtured with a special measure of responsibility. This is how we took action at the Ministry to amend the law on financing and organisation of education. We held an open debate on the amendments to the law with all key actors: trade unions, representatives of parents, representatives of municipalities, the student organisation and representatives of directors. Legal services at the Ministry, Government and National Assembly also participated in the preparations. The State Council has also joined. Members and Members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth also contributed greatly to the final version. Thus, we have a well-thought-out structured proposal ahead of us. Why these changes that we have on the table today? The answer is simple: because we want to give a clear signal that the school in Slovenia is based on teachers, that teachers are good and that schools are good. We want to strengthen the idea that there is a pedagogical process in place in schools, for which teachers have the greatest responsibility. From here also comes their higher weight in school management. Instead of the formula 3:3:3 we introduce formula 5:3:3, so we will have 5 representatives of teachers, three representatives of parents and 3 representatives of the community or founder in the holy schools. In doing so, we maintain, and I stress this in particular, the partnership. School management is a partnership process. Each group of the previously appointed three is autonomous and thus enters the world of the school. Parents and the community play an important corrective role in the educational process and also in school management. That's how they're measured by their influence in the world. So parents cannot set up groups in the field of educational work, because it is the competence of teachers. This is regulated in Article 2. The amendment of the law also introduces two representatives of students into sacred secondary schools and student homes. With this we want to give a clear message to the Slovenian public and to the students: the educational process is also a process of shaping a democratic political culture. This can only take place by involving students in school management, in the preparation of decisions that concern them most. Discussing domestic and civil education alone is not enough for the effective upbringing of democratic citizens. Students must also take responsibility for managing the educational process. With regard to private school funding, it is only in public record that the share of public funds is 85%, regardless of the pricing methodology of the programme. We return to the law a special protection public network of primary and music schools. The financing of a private school must not endanger the existence and development of a public school in a particular environment. It is not only the responsibility of the state, but its duty. It is impossible for the state to finance private schools while at the same time allowing public schools to fail. So it's just about protecting this minimum condition. In the law, we also resolve the situation of teachers who teach according to all the rules, but if they wanted to change schools, they would be inappropriate for teaching. Of course, it's a question of education. We only save the situation of those who are already teaching, but we clearly maintain the high requirements for the education of all teachers and educators who are new to the school field. It's similar to the principals. Dear Members, Members, President! I am sure that the debate so far has supported all the guidelines for amending the law, that all the social partners have spoken out and that we have a well-thought-out proposal on the table so that the National Assembly can discuss and conclude on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education at its 9th session, on 24 June 2009. He proposed it following a reduced procedure, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because he also decided to do so by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 26th meeting. The legislative and legal service examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to the sixth articles. They are listed in the written report. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. In its opinion, the Commission notes that the amendment submitted in Article 5 follows the proposals of the State Council, which, in explanation of the veto put forward to the last amendment of this Act in October 2007, supported the financing of private schools up to 85% of the funds of the State or the municipality. It also supported Article 7 of the novel, which prolongs protection for teachers and educators who met the conditions for carrying out educational work and did not break the working relationship in this area until the 1996 ZOFVI became operational. The amendments were tabled by four coalition parties at Articles 1, 5, 7, 8 and 10 and by the new 7a. Article 9a Article 9b Article 1 The SDS, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, tabled amendments to Articles 1, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 10. The SLS, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group on 1st and 6th Articles and Member Franz Pukšič on 7th Article. The Committee held a discussion and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled in accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council and the Unions of Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, the President of the Association of Directors, the representative of the Act of Parents' Councils and the representative of the Family Initiative participated in the work of the Committee. Representatives of the SDS Group did not participate in this point as they announced the absence of all members of the Group. In the introduction, Minister Igor Lukšič gave a complementary explanation of the bill, stressing the partnership that requires building on the autonomy of the composition of the worlds, such as it is now in law, is equality and is not a partnership. He also clarified some other provisions in the law. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative paid particular attention to the solutions referred to in Article 8 and to whether this article was indeed a transitional provision, and also made comments to Article 9a, which the Committee followed by drafting specific amendments, which are also seen in the review of the amendments, on the amended proposal. In the context of the debate on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the provisions of Article 1 and the amendments tabled to this Article, the discussion showed a variety of views, one group of Members and Members supported the proposed change in the composition of the Councils and the other supported the composition of the Councils introduced by the 2006 ZOFVI novel. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the four parliamentary groups, but did not accept the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The three amendments became irrelevant. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, the Committee adopted two additional amendments and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, he has thus drawn up an updated proposal for a law which is before you and is forwarded to you by the committee for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Vasja Klavora on behalf of the Dessus Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group we support the proposal for a novel Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. According to the Minister, the purpose of the law is also to protect public education from private schools, in particular as regards primary and music schools, while students still have a choice between private and public schools. The bill also raises the number of teachers in sacred schools. So, 5:3:3, which we support. This is a message that the primary responsibility for working in schools is in teachers. It may also be right to mention that, and not to be forgotten, parents are also an important factor in the functioning of schools, as it is not least about the protection, education and education of their children. However, we hope that in this formula, as was 5:3:3, parents will have an important role to play and that they will be able to express the opinion they need to take part in this process. Among other things, the novel's proposal brings students back to sacred high schools and students' homes. According to our assessment, this is the right decision, since high school students are the main subject of the educational process. In the parliamentary group, we would like to express one more point, one more critical point, regarding the protection of the status of directors who should cease their working relationship because they are supposed to have inadequate education after the current interpretation. The proposal for a novel now clearly defines that any higher education is appropriate, so that the director fulfils the conditions for teaching any subject. This provision, according to our assessment, puts teachers in an unequal position with directors, as teachers have to strictly meet the required educational standards and teachers will not have to follow the new ones. This is, in our opinion, somewhat discriminatory to teachers and at the same time inappropriate, as this will lead to a position that the person responsible for the professional and business activities of the school will be able to have a lower education than their subordinates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the adoption of amendments and the amendment of the law is meaningful and good, with a few reservations still to be made. Positive solutions are certainly a strengthening of the situation of daycare workers and schools in the world, i.e. the providers of the learning and training process and teachers themselves. It is also positive in some way to introduce a protection standard which provides that private, primary and music schools are not financed by public funds if the existence and development of a public school in the school environment is jeopardised. I'm sure there'll be a separation of views here. It also makes sense that for a group of professional workers, in particular administrators who have obtained secondary education, which does not otherwise meet the required education for teachers or professionals in primary school, in the previous period, the law provides that they may be appointed director. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law will certainly come across separate responses not only among Members, but also among people across Slovenia. The changes will certainly strengthen the role of competence as well as the responsibilities of the learners and teachers themselves. I think that is also the case, but unfortunately the proposal will certainly not achieve the goal best illustrated by the old Slovenian saying: "Volk sit, goat whole". At the same time, the relative competence and role of parents or representatives of the local community is being withdrawn, as their representation in the council of institutions is becoming relatively lower. Therefore, the legitimate response of civil society, such as the Family-Friendly Society, whose position I will present to you in a summary, in one sentence: "Instead of the Government's more involved in the joint search for solutions at these moments, it reduces their influence and relative representation in holy schools. This is completely contrary to professional guidance, as parents in schools and kindergartens are constantly hearing about the growing need for cooperation, the responsibility of parents in the process of education and education." So much for reflection. We also miss in the Slovenian National Party a proposal for possible changes regarding the procedures for appointing and dismissing administrators. For, as you know, this is such a complicated procedure - for the appointment of one ordinary principal of kindergarten or school is unreasonablely long and complicated. In addition, representatives of all interested structures representing their base are also in the institution's world, and therefore they are not now obliged to take into account the views of their base, just the procedure. They do not know this in any other industry or state bodies in Slovenia. For example, if there are representatives of teachers, representatives of parents, representatives of the local community in the school world, then why should all these opinions be collected, which lasts incredibly long, when, for example, their representatives have all the power to decide for themselves on the appointment and also on the resolution. Because, look, there is a uniform; it is said that all these representatives of workers, parents and local communities are being consulted in the appointment, and the Council of the Institute decides on its own in the discharge. So it's kind of an anachronism that's hard to understand. At the same time, there is also a process of some kind to the world. This is about as if Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had previously organised a referendum between citizens before each vote or any decision taken in Parliament and had obtained an opinion, such as to elect the Government or the President of the National Assembly. So, there's something here that doesn't make sense. If you have been elected, you also have powers and responsibilities, and why does this process go on? We still have quite a few comments in the Slovenian National Party, but in general the proposal makes sense. We also have a comment on the representation of the students in the Holy Schools, namely, we will table an amendment and on this later. Mainly, opinions will be different, but we will make the best of our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u10	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Hello, Mr. Secretary! First of all, with regard to the proposed law, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we strongly oppose the way or procedure for the adoption of government bills in the National Assembly. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which brings significant changes in this area, is nevertheless being considered in the short term, which is envisaged under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for less difficult amendments and amendments to the law. In our view, there has also been a violation in the legislative procedure of Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the State Council by which the President of the National Assembly is to call upon the competent authorities of the local communities to give their opinion on these provisions of the law. This has not happened and the opinion of the local communities is not in the works. The opinion of the Association of Slovene municipalities, which opposes the amendment of the law, was not taken into account in the Committee on Education and Sport. Nor has the Committee adopted the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to try to correct the two most controversial articles of the amendment of the Law, namely an article which provides for a different composition of the council of kindergartens or schools, and an article which allows for the inadmissibility of the financing of private schools. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the composition of the Council of kindergartens or schools adopted by the amendment of the Law in 2006 has allowed for a balanced impact of individual stakeholders in the design and adoption of decisions by this body. We believe that the role of teachers with this change has not been reduced, since in their domain it is the area of teaching, professional work and decision-making. In our opinion, however, the proposed solution indirectly reduces some of the competence of local communities and parents, which we do not think is appropriate, in fact, a dispute seems to us, since in our view the school system is intended primarily for children and parents and only for employees in the second. However, the proposed changes in the institutional and financial framework have a marked political connotation. The political connotation also has Article 6 of the amendment of the law, whose deletion we have proposed. The proposed doctrine is that private schools do not belong to public funds if admission to a private primary school threatens the existence of the only public primary school in the school environment. Threatening public schools with private schools is a totally indistinguishable concept which can then be politically abused. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not understand how today, when we have fewer than 1% of private schools, public schools are at risk. If competitiveness and the detection of new quality approaches to education is a threat, we seriously wonder what is wrong with our education. We therefore believe in the Slovenian People's Party that the amendment of the law certainly brings about such changes that would merit a general discussion, not a short-term treatment. The contents of the novel clearly point to the lack of dialogue between the public concerned and the proposer, as we consider unnecessary and controversial changes to be proposed. One such amendment is also an incomprehensible addition to Article 146 of the Law, which has so far been made to employed teachers who have, for example, the 6th degree of education and have in the meantime broken the employment relationship for a short period of time, does not allow them to be employed again in their profession, i.e. in education. On the basis of this, it is clear that we will not support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The proposed amendments and additions shall govern the recognition of the received education of the principals who have obtained a second-level higher education by means of study programmes which do not otherwise correspond to the required education for the teacher or professional at the primary school. During the transitional period, the law provides that they may be appointed director. In doing so, it must be recognised that this is an inappropriate interpretation in the past of the Ministry of Education in order to ensure that such education is appropriate. Therefore, due to equal treatment, it was necessary to regulate this situation in a legal manner by equalising all applicants for directors who had obtained an appropriate level of education by 1 February 2008 following a court decision. In doing so, it should be made clear that the system does not change the basic provisions when it lays down the educational and other conditions to be met by applicants for administrators. The novel changes the composition of the worlds of kindergartens or schools. This amendment, which introduces an additional two employees in the educational institution and reintroduces the student world in secondary education, strengthens the position, the role of workers in sacred kindergartens and schools. This Article means ensuring that what is essential to a quality public school is greater autonomy for teachers in their professional work. This change, according to the LDS Club, maintains a partnership between key stakeholders involved in the highest management body in public education institutions, namely between school workers, parents and founders, and in secondary schools as well as students. Since, in our view, the school stands or falls with teaching, it is important that they are represented in the highest authority and, at the same time, that amendment does not allow them to make important decisions such as the adoption of an annual work plan, the adoption of an analysis of the work, the appointment of a director or director. Partnership in the functioning of schools and so on in the world of institutions is crucial, while it is wise to have enough words in this body for those who are ultimately most responsible for whether the school is more or less successful. It is therefore appropriate to make this change clear to them that they should work even better and that we give meaning to their voice. This is important because in Slovenia we want and need a good school in which there is a lot of investment and expectations. We also see as positive the re-integration of students into the saints of secondary schools and students' homes, as this is how they are guided to form as responsible citizens, who take the responsibility for taking decisions taken by the Council of the Institute. At the LDS Club, we also support changes defining the financing of a private school in terms of the protection of the existence of a public primary school in the school environment, where private school funding is also provided. The private school, which would be provided with 85% of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme, does not belong to a public resource if the only public school or private music school is threatened by the only public school in the same school area. In the LDS, we will also support solutions that address the ambiguity of Article 146 of the current law. Thus, for teachers with only a sixth degree of education, the legal novelties clearly provide that they have the right to carry out educational and educational work until they cease uninterrupted work in the field of education and education, and that the interruption, which is shorter than three months, does not constitute an interruption of uninterrupted work in the field of education and education. Thus, these teachers - estimated to be about 5,000 - have not obtained in all the years since the adoption of the law in 1996 for various reasons a second level of education, in primary school, in music school, in high school and vocational school, in vocational and technical secondary schools and teachers in the home for pupils and in the dormitory equally run for vacancies in the field of education under the same conditions as candidates with the law and other rules of education. As I mentioned at the outset, we will support the amendment of the law at the LDS. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, we consider these changes to be one of the minor changes in school legislation. [[...]] We therefore expect, of course, that the White Paper, which the Minister has already announced, will open up a number of other areas and, of course, will fully prepare changes to the law in this important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. There are a number of reasons for that. We believe that all changes concerning education are extremely sensitive and must be implemented on the basis of thorough professional arguments. However, when we are before the amendment of the law, which includes 158 articles and 11 articles, that is to say that it meets all the business conditions for dealing with the short-term procedure, we support this amendment because it solves some of the key problems that have been raised by those who are most responsible for the activities of the school; these are teachers, directors, and ultimately civil society. When a study of the stress of the teaching profession came into our hands, 84% of our teachers responded that they felt their profession or that they thought it was a stressful profession. Other European teachers and teachers also consider the stress of this profession. And I would point out that the basic preventive action to achieve greater efficiency and better feeling and reduce stress at the appropriate level is also participatory governance. It is an update of the organisation and management and participation of participants that enables employees to participate more in decision-making, thereby strengthening the sense of importance and responsibility of teachers and professional workers. And that is the fundamental reason why the Social Democrats support the change in the composition of the worlds and better said: not a change, but a return to the original state that was in force until 2006 and has been amended without any expert analysis being submitted that the composition would not make the relevant decisions. So we are returning something that has already been and which has actually been eliminated even without taking into account Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure to which certain opposition parties refer. At that time, there was a reduction in the number of employees in the world, and now neither local communities nor parents are getting smaller and the number of representatives in the holy institutions remains the same, only the number of employees is increasing, with five still being less than six, which means that both parents and the local community still have a majority in the world. We also believe that the inclusion of two students in secondary and vocational schools is essential because we see in this also the strengthening of what is very important in our school system. In fact, the role of civic education has been highlighted. How to get young people to participate in decision-making on social issues if they are not allowed to make decisions in high school about the things that concern them most. Some experts also point out that dialogue between teachers and students should be strengthened and not weakened and should not undermine the agreement between teachers and parents. In addition, it must be said that the 2001 Constitutional Court decision has already found that the regulation proposed in the law and only summarises the previous decision is not inconsistent with the Constitution because the Social Democrats advocate the public network of schools, access to the public network of schools as a guarantee of the highest level of justice in the school system. There are also provisions on which there has also been a lot of talk, such as the regulation of the situation of employees with the 6th degree of education and also the provision on who meets the conditions for the director. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support and support the amendments of the four coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Darko Menich has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Good-bye. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled a proposal to withdraw the new law on the organisation and financing of education and education at the 9th meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth on 24. 6. 2009, since the Rules of Procedure and 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been complied with for consideration, which provides that the President of the National Assembly shall, at the beginning of the legislative procedure, invite the competent authorities of local communities to give their opinion on those provisions of the law within a certain period of time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that there have been several reasons for the proposal; it is unacceptable that municipalities, as school founders and paid material costs, transport, investment, standard, default, wages which the Ministry does not recognise, are excluded from the amendment of education and education legislation or have not been invited to give their opinion on the amendment of the law. The proposal of the novel ZOFVI is a direct intervention in the situation of local communities, which in this case is declining and thus exacerbates their situation throughout the process. This is an extremely unusual circumstance, for it is important to note that, on the other hand, the congregations are the founder of the law, that is, the payer, but at the same time, without any formal question, they take their rights and make their situation worse. The current legislation provides that all laws relating to local communities must be given the opinion of local communities, namely the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The law was introduced into the legislative procedure in the National Assembly two days after its adoption in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on 11 May 2009. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly should invite the competent authorities of the local communities to identify themselves for amendments. The time for that was more than enough. Also at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, none of the representatives of the founders were invited, i.e. the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, but only the representative of SWIZA and the Council of State, who represented two functions in one person. We have management authorities and professional bodies at school. The governing bodies shall be the board of the institution, which shall determine its competences, tasks: appoint and discharge the director, adopt a programme for the development of a kindergarten or school, approve the annual work plan, etc. The professional bodies shall, however, be recorded in Articles 60 to 64 of the Law, the Congregation of Teachers, the Teachers’ Assembly, the Department of Teachers and others. They shall address and decide on the professional issues and give an opinion on the annual work plan, which shall be drawn up by the Director. In Slovenia we have already had such a system. Various things have happened, such as the appointment of directors, it was clear that none of the employees would be against the candidate if it could then be again his superiors. The same was true in assessing the performance of managers. On the part of the staff, the Director has always obtained the maximum percentage in the performance assessment. It is also important to stress the Ministry's proposal to abolish the possibility of parents forming working groups at school. The abolition of this option is, in our opinion, pointless, since everywhere in the world the role of parents is being strengthened to support better work and the effects of both learning and education in both kindergarten and school. In the Group of Members, we believe that the amendment to the ZOFVI constitutes a derogation from the system of co-ordination and cooperation between equal partners who are all interested in quality school. We thought and hoped that the times of self-government were already behind us, because the European category is co-management, cooperation and partnership. We will not support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. If you allow me, because the word has been applied to the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, I would like to remind you that I have received a letter from the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Jožet Tank, pointing to Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore re-examined my decision with the experts in Parliament and found that the conduct of the National Assembly and the President was correct and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it was not a matter of direct interference, as the Rules of Procedure say, into the situation and rights of local communities or into provisions transferring certain tasks to the local community. At the same time, I have also examined how such changes in the past have been in the past practice of the National Assembly. This practice has in no way deviated from previous practice and it is therefore not possible to accept these findings; it can be understood but not accepted. At the same time, we note that amendments have come from a whole range of civil society organisations that have been considered on the Committee. It should therefore also be rejected that civil society was not involved in this work. Of course, the success of these efforts depends on you, Members of Parliament and Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13.7.2009. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you. Two amendments have been tabled to Article 1. In fact, both return the initial situation from 2006, where the possibility of students participating in public councils is abandoned or the possibility of participating in public institutions is not met, or is again reduced or trying to reduce the proposed increase of employees' representatives. I have already announced in the opinion of the Group that the Group of Social Democrats will not support these two amendments. There are several reasons for this. As far as amending the law in 2006, we have strongly opposed this amendment, and at that time all our calls for professional analysis and evidence were in vain, why it is necessary to reduce the number of employees in the holy public institutions. No one has submitted such expert analyses or replies. We now note that the return of more employees to the Holy School has the majority support of housing associations. And we believe that civil society has done its part in this case and has supported us in this proposal. It is true, however, that both the Community of Congregations and the Community of Congregations have announced that it opposes the fact that five employees would be employed in sacred public institutions. And even if I did not believe that it was the decision of the President of the National Assembly not to send this bill to the congregations under Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure, I wonder what we expect to get from the congregations. It is clear that in most cases local communities would reply that they want to have three plus three plus three, but perhaps some would also see that what the local community can do in the context of the school world can also be done in such participation as it is now represented. Indeed, no investment for which funds must be contributed from the local budget can be obtained without discussion in the municipal or municipal council. So the school world here is not interfering with the jurisdiction of the local community. Otherwise, I would ask myself, who are the representatives of the local community in the world of parents, in the world of schools? We know the cases where the local community voted in favour of the appointment of a director or director, and the representatives of the local community in the world voted differently. Who do they represent now? Are individuals who vote according to their conscience atomized there, or are they representatives of the local community? While I am in favour of everyone voting as dictated by his belief, it is impossible to say that they represent the whole local community, because the decisions taken on the municipal council or the city council are decisions made by an authority. And this body has delegated individuals to the world, so I see no reason to have any special assurance that the local community is reducing its impact on decisions in such a composition of the world as proposed. I would like to point out once again that I advocate greater participation by teachers and teachers and other world workers in the holy public institutions because I am confident, like my fellow Member, Ljubo Germič, that a good school stands and falls with teachers. I believe we have good schools in Slovenia, I believe we have good teachers and I trust their decisions. However, if they themselves feel that their work is stressful and that the stress of their work comes from the various contacts they have in their work; that the stress of their work comes also from the fact that the legislation changes so quickly because requirements change so quickly, then their desire to require greater autonomy in their work needs to be heeded. I believe that the ministry will try to calm the situation in education, to calm the changes in legislation and that the current process is simply to stop at those things that are urgently needed changes, not at anything else. Let me re-emphasize. In full faith that it is right for students to have their representatives in sacred schools, I support this statement. Recently this was published by Dr. Mirjana Ule, a social psychologist, forever young, social psychology of growing up. In fact, it points out that a dialogue between the two participants in education is essential for good school work: between the educators and those in charge of education. We need to build on this dialogue in the first place. I understand that parents want to be interlocutors, so they also have an opportunity in the parental world, but the main communication must run between students and students on the one hand and teachers and teachers on the other. Of course, I understand these two amendments, from my speech, I cannot support and defend the composition of the worlds, as proposed by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Alexander Zorn has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As the minister began, the novelty of the law affects a vast area. It affects congregations, affects schools, affects parents, affects students, and ultimately affects all of us. It is said that there is no reason for us to accept this by means of a rapid procedure, for I claim that all the novelties that the proposal brings and which are supposed to be a special improvement of the law are, in fact, its flaws, and they are all flaws. I also object to both the reasons we've heard here. The first was that the municipalities were excluded from codecision and the second was that the formula 3 + 3 + 3 was the exclusion of teachers from school codecision. Why? Even though Parliament's legal service has found that there is no need for local communities to be involved in the amendment of the law in this case, I find it extremely unusual that the Ministry did not include them. Because, after all, the congregations are really school funders, they are founders and financiers, and they decide on everything that my colleague has already said in the basic principle of our parliamentary group. If I speak of this, I warn you that it is possible that an administrative dispute will be triggered and there will be more, as the constitutional one can also be triggered. After all, in any normal life, the one who finances something is also influential in how his money will be decided. And this financier was released from codecision. If this is also justified by any rules of procedure, this is pointless and has a short period of action. The second thing is to increase the influence of teachers. No one wants to reduce the influence of teachers, and no one happens to appear in our client against this influence. This would really be extremely obsessive, but we think that the balanced effect in formula 3 plus 3 plus 3 was better for many reasons. Why? In our explanation, we also wrote this, a balanced and equal composition of worlds and public kindergartens or schools, consisting of three representatives of the founder, three representatives of workers and three representatives of parents, was adopted by a new law in 2006. The revised composition of the Council and public kindergarten or school allows for a balanced impact of individual stakeholders in the design and decision-making of that body. And what is important now is that the role of teachers with this change has not been reduced since the field of pedagogical decision-making and behaviour is in their hands and are the largest groups with the dominant professional field in the institution. Teachers are represented in professional assets, departmental teaching assemblies, teaching councils and other bodies where the most important professional decisions are taken. And if we're even in the stressful work of teachers that I totally agree with. And if we are, even as my colleague has mentioned, that the impact on teachers who decide on directors in the Holy Office is at least problematic, if not otherwise, then it is clear that this stress is only increasing with tremendous pressure that teachers should vote for the director who is envisaged, chosen and probably extended by the Ministry itself. This means that the centralisation of decision-making is returning more to the ministry than elsewhere, and this is very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Andrey Richter has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! When I listen to my respected colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, I can see that there is a difference between us. We talk, we promise, and we keep it. And we say that young people around whom everything revolves and around which, after all, the political system or decision - making system must be made in such a way that it builds on them. This law refers to the fact that a teacher is the foundation of the system and that a public school has priority over a private school and that participation of students in the educational process is an important socialisation factor. First in 2006, when you talked a lot about domestic education, civic education, you removed students from the institutions' worlds. I don't know why. Indeed, all we need to know is that today is no longer just a system of schooling, including outside schools, in the family, not least in the local community. It is therefore trust, responsibility, respect for the young responsible people, for whom it is no longer necessary to be 18 years of age to be able to make decisions, which, last but not least, you refer to in the argument of this amendment. You may forget that today children, a 16-year-old, can go down to the roads, not least can take full responsibility for the traffic and the responsibility for their lives. And last but not least, he's signing labor contracts. Therefore, I find it inappropriate to propose that young people should not be able to participate legally in decision-making in sacred institutions. This is where the difference is that we talk about partnership, responsibility and respect. Last but not least, the proposal for a law in Article 1 has a great deal of support among the professions, between teachers and also between parents. I really don't understand all those almost 300 representatives in both communities who oppose and are also parents. I really don't get it. Is it really necessary to have that political power in hand when you can, by voting on the proposal of the boards of institutions, decide who will be the director and what will be. Is it no longer important for this director to create an environment, an atmosphere among teachers, among students - for which, lastly, the school is, to learn a new one, to learn new things, and in particular a way of life that is very changing. And this is where the life of young people outside that environment, the classrooms that are building the school, is imaginative. For this reason, I absolutely cannot agree and cannot support either of these two amendments, not even with such justification. In addition, I can support the profession, I can also support the professional argument that the proposed composition of the worlds is good and that this is what builds up for us in the school system, with responsibility for teachers who are also parents, with their much greater responsibility in doing so, and thus for reducing decision-making in school management. As I say, partnership, respect. Today, young people are learning in school meals, but the basic process is also taking place in partnership, within the family itself. Parenthood and the teaching profession need to be prepared to have a lot of trust and responsibility in our society. We can also give this to him by means of this proposal, which is enshrined in Article 1 of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Several times it has been pointed out that the amendment of such legislation is extremely sensitive, of course I agree with this, but then the procedure could also be regular, irrespective of the formal fulfilment of the conditions for the procedure under which this is taking place. The exclusion of the congregations also seems to me - yes; fine, if you think so, fine, but my opinion is different: the giver of money should have something to say about it. Of course, I deeply agree with those who claim that domestic education is very important. I'm sure there's not enough of that. The composition of the world and the integration of the students will make no difference in this area. If I belong to a generation or many of us sitting here, we belong to a generation that taught us one part of history and we knew about every spruce that some partisan stood for on Neretva or Sutjeski, which is nothing wrong, but it is wrong that they silenced us all that happened after 1945 and we got a red history, but we didn't get a real history. But the problem is as far as historical education is concerned today. In fact, for most people, for most under 20 years, history ended in 1941, and everything that was gone since 1941 is no longer in these people's minds. But if we can't figure out what happened between 1945 and 1990, at least I'd understand that we've united ourselves, what happened since 1991, and we haven't been united here in historical education. Also here in this National Assembly there was a hearing of words, yes, because Slovenia did not come into existence in 1991! Who says so? This is due to the lack of native education and within 15 years people will be sitting here who will not know that Slovenia was created in 1991. But, of course, changing the law and bringing in the students will not change anything in this area, nothing will change. A change of law seems of great importance to me, and one of the very good experts sent me the following message days ago. It is a person who has spent his entire life in education, including in responsible places, and he wrote about it. What I find most controversial is contained in Article 46 - the composition of the school council after the new, three representatives of the founders, five representatives of the employees, three representatives of the parents and two students, together 13. The world has never been so numerous since we were independent of the Republic of Slovenia. And from this point of view, the fundamental question is: Is it just another bureaucratic invention more, etc., etc.? The argument that such a composition is intended to ensure that education remains highly professional and independent is a mere fog. That's what this gentleman says. The question is: Will schools, due to the new four - of these 2 students, who are legally more independent because of their age, etc.? Certainly not, since it is disproportionately uncritical to involve parents, students in the work of teachers, to express the problem of recent years in Slovenia. Especially in evaluation, etc. Let me quote just one more thing. In one of the last issues of the School Views, this is an article amending school legislation - yes, but what? He says this: getting into the profession with multiple representatives, three parents and two students, will be equivalent to five employees, for whom professional independence is fought, for example, by someone here. And to conclude. He also says this, this article: let the proponents make it clear that they favor students, not employees. Tell them directly that this is a whole case of the FDV's anarcholiberalist model. I'd say it myself if I were to finish. Look, you're gonna confirm this law tomorrow, and it's gonna be changed. But our professional colleagues, as well as ourselves, in many laws, let's say in the field of justice, and this one is, in fact, we can have a job. Let's see what Janša's government has changed. And the professional colleagues looked back and more or less at most of the laws, and this is the case, too, we are returning to a state that was until 2004. We're returning a condition that was in most of the laws by 2004. It's like you're getting ready, like you're going to be in power again for thirteen years or fourteen or twelve years. I wouldn't do that. Consensus should be sought on such important social issues, including a consensus with the opposition, in order to find models, in order to find ways that will be good for this country, but not, which will have a four-year term or eight-year term, depending on the electoral outcome. I don't think it's a good system on one side or the other. It's definitely not a good system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. First of all, he has Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. With regard to Article 1, I would say the following. When I said the position of the Slovenian National Party, there was also a partial opinion of the party or my personal opinion, but I must say that we are some, I think I am not alone here, just in a strange situation sometimes. When I'm, like, a teacher by profession, and at the same time a parent, like, a school-bound child, is now kind of separated in this article. As a teacher, I'm giving the right change. As a parent, however, I am in some ways relatively disadvantaged. To be clear: since the number of parental representatives has not been taken up, it has been relatively reduced. In the Slovenian National Party we have an amendment to Article 1, this is about students. So that we do not misinterpret ourselves, nor do we by any chance deny the role and importance of the influence of the student community on governance, codecision at school, far from it. We welcome the fact that students are also involved in this process. However, we have made an amendment regarding their age. I'll explain that to you. It is said that this article should be read, irrespective of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article: "The Council of Public Vocational Schools, High Schools and Public Students at Home shall consist of three representatives of the founder, five representatives of workers, three representatives of parents and two representatives of students who must be at least 18 years of age or 18 years of age in the current year of election." Why? The present law regulated the participation of representatives of the student community with the equal right to participate in the work of the school council when it deals with matters relating to the situation of students or when dealing with matters submitted by the diocese community. All is well and well, but in practice this is not the case, since the Council decides by an absolute majority of all its members on all voting matters, so the two students also make equal decisions on all matters on the agenda of the Institute's Council. They therefore also appoint and resolve school principals, adopt a school development programme, an annual work plan and a report on its implementation, adopt an annual report on the self-evaluation of the school, decide on the introduction of superstandard and other programmes, consider a report on education or education issues not to mention. Above all, it is more than disputed that underage students decide on the complaints of employees - specifically about the complaints of their teachers, namely, this - in the world as a second-degree appeal body. Being a member of a board of some institution is a demanding and responsible function, even more so in the world of school, so it is essential that the members of that body are at least full-year old if no one can guarantee their competent and proper decision. The legal order of the Republic of Slovenia provides that every citizen shall have the full ability to perform with the age of 18. Therefore, it is not permissible for a student who cannot decide for himself until the age of full age on his own important decisions, for which his parents are responsible until the age of 18, to decide the fate of the development of a specific public institution without any legal responsibility. It can also, without legal consequences, because he is a minor and is not responsible for his actions, within three or four years of attending a particular school, he decides on the fate of school employees who can normally work there for almost a lifetime. Just for example: a minor can't even get out of school without the consent of his parents. So much for his work ability. All other justifications, what powers, responsibilities can be assumed by a youth student, for example, in traffic and so on, are by no means in this context. Thus, it is not a reduction in their role, but a correction that, for example, would also satisfy certain regulations. Look, in case there's a decision in the world of the institution, to lose a job, say, some employees, and that, let's say, by voting underage students there's been this decision. And I'm very interested in how the court's decision will come out in such a case. So much for thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u28	Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to begin with the statement by my colleague Gorenak when he said that consensus should be reached on important social issues. And consensus is also something that is being achieved in these sacred schools, which we are currently discussing under this amendment. The vast majority of decisions made in sacred schools are not problematic; they are actually made by consensus. Those decisions, such as voting, are usually decisions about the school’s principal or principal; with few exceptions, other solutions are problematic. So the vast majority of the concerns that have already been expressed here probably relate only to these appointments, to these human resources solutions. Whether the proposed solution in the law was due to the desire to vote on another or to worry about being voted on by another. I think it's different than anything else. In a desire to increase the autonomy of the school, the Government is proposing five representatives of workers in this world. And it is also, of course, a system that has worked well before. It has also been said that teachers or school workers have other school bodies to express their opinion: the professional council, the teaching assembly, etc., and it is likely then necessary to acknowledge that the student community exists in schools, and that the council of parents and representatives of the founders have all their municipal councils, the city council and the mayor are the ones who eventually hold back or implement decisions that are legal or retain them if they are illegal. Each year, municipal budgets shall determine how much funding may be allocated for the renewal of this or that school. Thus, in certain cases, the school’s world is not one to have all the scissors and linen in hand. In a desire to increase the autonomy of the profession, this coalition wrote this among its promises. And that's one of the promises he makes. However, as for the representatives of the students, this second amendment to Article 1, I must say that, with all the concerns that my colleague Györek has now listed, I am, of course, also reading this amendment by allowing him to sit in the world of a student who is not yet 18 years old, will only reach them in the current year of election. And if nothing else, I must say that if he was as intent as he was presented, this amendment is flawed. Indeed, we do not all have a single opinion on this composition of the school world, of course on the basis of different experiences from the local environment, because, of course, all decisions ultimately depend on people and their conscience and conviction as to how they vote, as the colleague Poturat spoke about. On the basis of the fact that it was initially said that most of the problematic decisions made by those who are staff, it might be worth considering in the future that certain decisions, the director or principal, should be made with a different, larger majority than all others are taken to say in terms of "non-problematic". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Presidents, at the outset, you said that everything was fine with the implementation of our Rules of Procedure. We do not think that this has been the case, so we have also proposed in the parliamentary group the withdrawal of the 1st item from the agenda of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth in order to take time to do what the Rules of Procedure imposes on you, which also requires the Ministry to harmonise and obtain from such a law, which has an important impact on the founder of institutions, to give them time to express themselves about the law. This is referred to in Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which states that before the adoption of laws and other regulations relating to the benefit of self-governance local communities, the Government must obtain their opinion before the adoption of legislative proposals or before submitting them to the National Assembly for adoption and prior to the adoption of other rules under its jurisdiction concerning the jurisdiction of the operation and financing of municipalities, ensure the appropriate cooperation of the Association of Municipalities. We received an opinion just prior to the meeting of the Committee, both by the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, which in explanation states or warns that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not include the Association of Municipalities in the process of receiving the novel, although the provisions interfere with the field of local self-government. In the same way, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has been defined and it has stated that it is not acceptable in the opinion of the community, since it reduces the jurisdiction of the municipalities, etc. Of course, we received this half an hour, a little less, before the meeting on the table, for the congregations did not know that the novel was changing. The minister says they've been informed of this. Your argument that the law does not directly interfere with the work of the congregations or with the jurisdiction of local communities is that I do not know why the two associations responded and somehow felt that they were concerned. Your explanation is quite unconvincing and I think we have actually done ourselves, both the Ministry and the National Assembly, with this bear a favor when we exclude from the consideration of this law of the congregation. None of the associations have been invited to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at this point, indicating at least that we do not want to hear their opinion. You don't want to, because we've decided not to take part in the session. And now for change. Article 1 of the proposal states in the Ministry's explanation that the article was amended in 2008. He wasn't. It was changed in 2006. This indicates that you were writing a new law quite quickly. We have therefore proposed that this Article should be deleted and that the provisions should remain as adopted in 2006. And there are more reasons for that. In Slovenia, there is not a single public institution in a comparable area: culture, social, health, where the majority of employees would be employed. Most of you, or quite a few of you here, spoke about expertise. In the area of health care, the majority of the government in the institutions established by the Government will not say that the world of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana or Maribor is therefore less professional and will therefore suffer severe professionalism. We have said, and the law clearly states what are professional bodies and what are management bodies. And by comparison, let the congregation council talk about school in the congregation, we talk about the world of the institution, that is, the world that runs the school, not the municipal council and some political bodies. Therefore, it is also such an organ, or the intended composition of three to three, which has included all those concerned and involved in the events in the institution. The School Council has a distinct administrative function and has little to do with its expertise. As a matter of fact, professional assets have been determined. The school council is really adopting an annual work plan, but we know that, no matter how many employees there are in the school world, the director prepares it with his professional colleagues and does not produce it alone. Even if you're trying to convince us that it's a irrelevant choice of director or that we can't tell teachers that they're going to elect a bad director, it's true, there's a lot of things that work, and the representatives of the congregation can vote for the bad director. However, the consequences of the breakdown of the relationship in the composition of the world will be an over-influence of the collective in the selection of the director. Without being very naive, we can be sure that the director will always consider whether, if he introduces a novelty, he will be reelected in the world of the institution and chosen as director. He will always have this influence if he does not want to, or this aspect, of what this will mean for his next election. We can assume that he will try to please the collective, which probably will not always mean the highest quality of work at school and its development. This may even be problematic at a time when we are introducing a number of innovations into the school system or have already introduced them, and perhaps we will introduce some changes slower or softer so that we do not overly affect those who then vote for the director. We could say the same thing if we were looking from the teachers. Those who operate in professional assets will propose some decisions, some news, however, changes in the educational field, and then there will be 5 teachers in the school world who can, say, an elite who can also overrun such a professional decision if they disagree with it. It probably doesn't work best at school, at school, at teacher-to-teacher relationships, that kind of thing. Then we know that the world also deals with complaints. We know what it's like. Teachers then decide on a complaint, perhaps a teacher who is their friend, and then they likely deal with complaints from employees, and then the one who made the complaint, the student’s parents, or something similar. If, in our opinion, the proposaler really wanted to give more emphasis to professionalism, more autonomy for teachers, he could probably do more on some other matter. For example, leave teachers complete freedom to choose textbooks or something like that. Now we know that the General Education Council confirms the textbooks. I have already mentioned that in various institutions, in sacred institutions, the majority of those established by the institution have, in certain cases, a government, in certain cases a municipality. Even public institutions - Institute for Education, Centre for Vocational Education, which are the most professional institutions, here the Government has most not professional workers and employees. If we followed this, we would probably quickly come to the conclusion that the relationship that was established by amending the 2006 Act was purely right. To conclude, the composition of the world, as proposed by the Government, has been made quickly, without analysis, including comparisons that you have written in your work. For I myself have obtained a comparative review which has been prepared in this house and denies much of what is written in yours, but it is too long to tell you now. It's misleading. At least, which is misleading for us Members, because you are doing comparisons of things that are not comparable to each other. And, as it is said, there is no such solution in Slovenia, there is no comparable solution, the government has a majority against minorities in all the institutions it has set up, and the municipalities take one important one. I have already suggested to the minister that they should take over the administration or establishment of schools in the municipalities and leave it to the Ministry, and I wonder what the relationship would be then by the Ministry. But the joke's on the side. That would be too bad for the Ministry. In short, you take something from the municipalities, you haven't asked them about it, we're not really reducing the number of representatives, but the relationship is changing, and it's for the employees. And again, a little bit of a joke, you're talking about expertise, professional autonomy. The law says there are five employees in the Holy Offices on your proposal. How much more professional a janitor or a powerhouse in this department is going to be, I'm going to be interested. I will, of course, support our amendment, secondly, from the Slovenian National Party, but not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Ljubo Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It is necessary to repeat what has been said by Mr Gorenak, and also that changes in the school field need to be changed after consideration by consensus, which should be as high as possible if not complete. But we have warned of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, during the time of the changes that we have introduced into the school field, four years have passed. But unfortunately, there was no willingness to change this field by consensus. There was neither the willingness to understand more than 20,000 signatures of professional workers in education and education, which at the time warned that changes in the composition of worlds were not good. How, then, to understand these consensus appeals today, if then half of the employees were not given any weight, no thought to thought. And when we asked you at the time when we were changing the law to tell us on the basis of the bad experiences we are experiencing in these changes, there was no such thing. It was even obvious that teachers had a monopoly and that monopoly in sacred institutions should be taken away. Of course, none of these claims were realistic. Teachers never had a monopoly in the world. But the fact was that they were in partnership, and I was both a teacher and a principal and a parent, and I would be very interested in the world working together. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u33	Please, calm down! If anyone wants to discuss it, they'll be able to discuss it. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u34	And I know how we could have worked both with the local community, including the mayor, including with representatives of the local community and with the employees, as well as with the students. So it's a partnership. And formula 3:3:3, which you are talking about, here today you mean to say that from the ratio 5:3:3 we took nothing from the teachers, it is incomprehensible to me today, unless we then took nothing from them, how we give them something today. Because where we didn't take anything, there's nothing to give. This means that we are clearly communicating to the teachers, and I have also said this in the opinion of the Member Club that there is still a belief and a view that the school is standing and falling on teachers. Those of us who were involved in one way or another, we could feel it. However, examples of appointment may vary greatly in any composition. If we analyze the cases from appointment to appointment, we'd see that. No formula 3:3:3, no formula 5:3:3 and in secondary schools 5:3:3:2 gives no further defined situation as to how the appointment will take place after the voting in the world of the school for principal. That's what practice says. But the key message is whether we trust teaching congregations, teachers, school professionals to make such decisions when they make an annual work plan. I agree. There's a broad consensus in preparation. Parents are also involved. Many comments and suggestions are made by students, at least for the high school level. And this collection represents an annual work plan, which is then addressed by the teaching assembly and gives opinions, for example, for holy schools. And the autonomy of teachers’ representatives also speaks of the fact that the opinion, who are in the world, is also different, for example, from the majority opinion of the teaching congregation. But this is perfectly normal, they have this autonomy, because even in the world of schools are represented teachers of various professional assets. Professional assets linked to each area concerned. And it is not necessarily that the views on certain solutions are exactly the same. And that's right. The key thing I want to say here is, teachers in none of these formulas have an absolute majority, not in system 3:3:3, where the ratio of 3 founders, 3 teachers, i.e. representatives of the institution, and 3 from the local community, not in the case of 5:3:3. Teachers cannot make any decision on their own, but there must always be a certain number of votes in the partnership by parents and founders. And that's the key point. None of these partners have an absolute majority to make decisions in the institution's world. And if we all recognize here today that it is very important to regulate school space due to constant changes, due to constant competition in competitiveness and knowledge, then it is also necessary to have direct and rapid responses from actors involved in this school field and continuous education, i.e. education. And in a real partnership, I'm sure every school has a consensus for good decisions. And in very rare situations, we are placed in a system of voting that would be totally diametric. I will not only define myself on one issue which is most important from a political point of view. That is whether we will have a politically appropriate director. And believe me, the majority in the collective will also understand the director who will come with a programme that will mean, say, some measures at school that may be less pleasant for teachers at the first moment. But if argued by raising the quality, efficiency, improving the educational process, teachers also follow these processes very, very quickly. In this context, it seems to me to consider this consensual proposal in terms of partnership, while at the same time giving a clear message: you teachers are fundamentally responsible for the maximum good that the educational and educational process will take place. And here to have students for partners, I think it's extremely important. My experience was extraordinary. When we made decisions about how life will be designed at school, having a critical comment from students before taking it, it was an extremely high quality value. And from this point of view, it seems to me an extremely important quality change that we will re-engage students in these processes, because when they accept this responsibility, they can also think very carefully and very carefully and discuss some of the solutions that are then said to be at the key management body, which is in the world of the institution, even adopted. And it is right that we build on this participation of students in the key decision. From my point of view, from my experience, I find this extremely good and right for the students. In this way, the decisions to be taken also become an integral part of their responsibility. And in this way, it's much easier to be realistic. So I think, colleagues and colleagues, let's think about these things and not take it one way against the other, an argument of power. This is not a power argument, it's a power argument. And it seems to me that the changes in the composition of the world are going in this direction, in order to improve decisions within the board of institutions, to form and continue to cultivate a partnership and, of course, to contribute to quality education work in schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Would you like Mr. Gorenak? I can't give you a replica, you haven't been mentioned [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Did you mention him? [[...]] So it's a replica of Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for being right. I'll tell you what I think very briefly. Look, it is true, in the previous term, that there is still a need for consensus in such important decisions, that the government of Janez Janša has sought consensus in these laws and also in this law in the partnership for development. The partnership for development meant support for 60% of the laws that we jointly set out and the SD Members involved pressed the key for. Your client wasn't involved, but she wasn't involved. However, we have also coordinated the specific law, and I no longer know exactly who the SD representative was in this regard, and I think that we have harmonised some of the articles on this critical issue and we probably have not harmonised them. And the marriage wasn't supported by SD either, I remember that. At the same time, it must be explained that there is no such experiment now. That's the difference. There is no attempt to negotiate with the opposition either. That's the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. There can also be no consensus if you have not left the committee for the last time to say that they do not participate in the process, and last but not least the local communities have not been invited. We may know that the Minister himself sent the material and the law into coordination, in question as early as March and April. Therefore, to speak of the fact that the communities of both communities did not have material and were not familiar with it, it is, after all, a utopia. However, I say it is very unreasonable that mayors or representatives of municipalities or municipalities in both communities do not understand the mission. I'm telling you, school isn't a company. This is a place for learning and learning, and because they cannot overcome non-economic interests. Therefore the excuses are also in that whoever gives the money also decides who will be the manager, impossible and insufferable. We are not talking last of all about the school process and about the need to make financial contributions. But the responsibility is that it is the director's responsibility, how he will be able not least to initiate the school program, learning, knowledge. And exclusion, in this case of young people, and talking about that only 18 years of age is enough or a condition for them to decide, is stupid to me. Because young people, it's about them, it's about the school process. If we rule them out of taking the last responsibility, it's disrespect for me, irresponsible action against these young people. I say once again, taking responsibility, going on the market and not least jeopardising my life and the lives of others, signing the employment contracts they have at the age of sixteen is a responsibility. Therefore, not giving them responsibility for codecision in the worlds is a strange question for me and a strange thought in today’s life. I don't know how your parents at home don't last have your kids in the decision-making process in the family circle as such. Do you make last calculations on how you will celebrate, how you will go on vacation, how you will not last spend your calculations? That's what we're talking about, of course, today's families. It is very important how children understand the social situation, the situation, not least their families, and how they can adapt. These are responsible things that young people understand or not. And the school system, it's the school that must, after all, upgrade the understanding of today's society. That is why, of course, thinking about local communities thinking as we have heard, only about it, the money giver will also make decisions, unacceptable to me, and I cannot support this amendment. Speaking of procedure. Please, if we really look at it; the procedure is short, there is no extraordinary speedy procedure, so it would be good if we did not finally read it. And of course, home education - colleague Gorenak has gone away - and history. I, too, was not a mayor, I have no interest in this, but I was a professor, I am a historian, a scientific research worker, and since 1987 there have been very strong historical research on what has happened in the past. And it may be possible to remember precisely those institutions where we began to open up issues of the past, of the historical period and also put them on scientific and research bases. As a result, history did not end in 1945 at all 20 years ago, but it was with special school programmes for primary and secondary school students that the issues concerned and also the backdrops were opened, at least in the Celje area, and we also complemented the school programmes of history and not least by supplementing the school's history classes in primary and secondary schools. So it is today to talk about the end of things, lies and falsehoods. Every year, new research interventions complement the school curriculum and history curriculum in primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. In particular, it was pointed out that the law was being dealt with in a reduced procedure, not by an urgent procedure. I am opposed to the fact that in such important activities as education, finances should play a crucial and decisive role. What we should achieve as a consensus in our society is where we place knowledge and where we place education. For me, knowledge and education are the first tasks of a responsible democratic society. Nor does it show that the regulation of education is the domain of all countries and that we are not, as in the regulation of certain other matters, obliged to follow any other practice. Therefore, reference to any cases and comparisons with other school systems is, of course, somewhat problematic because school management across different countries is also different. What is left to us is a decision to give to whom we will give an important word in school when it comes to managing our work. Social Democrats in this part are advocates of employee co-management, co-management, which means they are not put out. But here's where you put it, or there's another problem. There was a lot of talk about consensus, about the social consensus that was needed. However, it seems that the consensus between us will be very difficult to achieve because some of you are deriving from a negative judgment in your argument, but some of us are trying to find the positives that guide us to achieving better results. If I have to listen here, that five teachers or five employees in the world will just support an unsolicited director and be poorly represented and have distorted decisions, then I really don't know how we can build the biggest social capital, which is trust. I cannot agree to the world as a conspiracy and see that each representative is the worst elected, that teachers will choose their worst representatives, etc. I regret to note that some of them have significantly younger, colleagues and colleagues, significantly worse memories than I do because they forget how we have adopted the laws, as well as the law on which we speak today, in the previous term. Without any consensual acceptance. The composition of the worlds, the representatives of the founders. Yeah, well, who brought these kind of solutions? Let us also remember the calvary that we have walked by those who have demonstrated how a politicised institution has become an expert council for general education. And I could also list the cases. Excuse me, I see this call after consensus solutions as a cynical comment, given the experience I have from my previous mandate. Now that Mr Gorenak, who is not here now, cannot remember how cohesive this law was, but it is already a little sad because he was the main link between the National Assembly and the Government and he remembers exactly what was done, how many steps, what was going on, not to mention that after the law was adopted, after the withdrawal of that funding provision, a group of then coalition Members, now opposition Members, gave to the Constitutional Court a constitutional assessment of those articles talking about funding. So please! If anyone's memory is being tortured, there are magnetograms and it's possible to write it down. As a result, once again, I do not know how many times already today, the composition of the worlds is going back to the composition that was voted out in 2006. There was no expert analysis to prove that the composition of 3 plus 3 plus 3 is better than established. And there was no evidence of why students had to be expelled from the world. No, no, no. And now you're demanding that we get an analysis for the composition of the world of 3 plus 3 plus 3. What I would like to warn, however, is what we are actually talking about representatives of the founders in the world of the public institution. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education covers such pre-school education, primary school, secondary education and higher vocational education. This means that not only are the founding congregations but there are other founders for secondary education. I'm asking you nicely if we could just keep an eye on this detail when we discuss it. Now it's just like that, 'cause it's a little hangy, but it doesn't matter. Also in 2006 local communities and representatives of municipalities, representative associations of municipalities were not invited to examine the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Mrs. Jeraj, thank you for helping me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u41	Not mutual controversy without the intervention of the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u42	But it has already been said that the government has also spoken with representatives of local communities in preparing this novel. Secondly, and I have already said that there was no agreement with the representatives of the congregations at this point. And don't drag me into a language now, so I can tell you what wasn't the harmonised drafts of the laws adopted by the previous government. I can't agree to your argument that you want to return or stop the employees from getting more co-ordination and that the students will return to the councils of public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Secretary of State. Hello, Secretary of State. It's a master's exercise, and I think it's quite good to do some things again. Personally, I am leaning towards the formula 3 plus 3 plus 3, as suggested, even though intimately and very emotionally, given that I come from school types, I would give somehow greater weight to those who co-create, creating a school process, which in some ways make it very hard for children to develop a love for learning, because it is not easy to raise a love for learning. This is a very difficult process. This is a difficult process on the part of the one who teaches and teaches. I think that so much more attention could be given to this, and so perhaps once in 10, 15 years, the autonomy of these primary schools will also be slightly strengthened, because teachers are only those important creators and creators of knowledge and young learners. I'm terrified when I hear "the one who gives money is the local community", "the one who gives money is the congregation". Really. She gives money physically, practically and otherwise. In fact, the money giver, it's us, it's you, it's parents and we're actually all taxpayers. It is said that in this circle we can and must be able to make decisions. And not the last school, the public educational institution can never, in any way, be compared to a production unit or some profitable field of activity. Very subtle decision-making is needed, as is expected. It bothers me so much that we're so determined that we're just criticizing, that we see black, that we see only weaknesses and that we're always turning to some kind of history. Okay, we're learning, we're learning, we're all learning, and we're here too, not least members of Parliament and members of Parliament. And consensus in decision making is not an easy thing and we will have to get used to it and learn it. It bothers me that these members of the boards of institutions, including the professional councils of the institutions, do not have the opportunity to gain knowledge of how and how they can act and represent the interests of those who are supposed to represent them. In some periods and times there have also been education for these members of the boards of institutions. And I think that maybe in one of the next stages of this segment a little bit more attention should be given. It is also one step towards making a decision that is easier and that, in fact, these interests are more easily flowing and that the matter becomes more autonomous and consensual and more harmonious. However, we must not forget that there is no process without the love of learning and without those who will endure this knowledge. This process is very important, and much more attention needs to be paid to this process than we have given it in the past. In the past, we have only considered how, in what way is it decided, which director was named by the right procedure or by the wrong procedure, which law did it, which rule and I don't know what. Unfortunately, we are in all the debates so far, if we also look at the National Assembly and not least at Cobis' contributions on how and how the saints of institutions operate and whether the saints of institutions are actually discussing the learning process. No, they were actually discussing the appointment of a principal. The appointment of the director was used for some individual and, last but not least, political inter-accounting. He also calls Eldorado a brutal reckoning. That is why I think that, let's be so fair, and let's actually focus on a learning process that is not easy, not at present, how to attract attention and the desire that someone acquires knowledge when we have so many media that lead us in such a different way. I support this amendment of the law, and I think that all the next steps will only go better, because if teachers don't make decisions about it, it will be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. We probably all come from one wrong assumption that the coalition is an advocate of teachers and that the opposition is an advocate of local authorities or parents. This impression is completely wrong, because we are all citizens, many of us are parents, and few of us are teachers. Similarly, when we talk about school councils, the representatives of the congregation, who are also parents or teachers, are codecisiond. The municipality is not an abstract or excluded entity that pays and therefore has the right to cooperate equally with those who work and bear full responsibility for the results of this work. As the union's very sober representative Branimir Strukelj said, right on board, the fact is, and I speak very competently, because I myself worked for seven years as a teacher and as a professor, for all mistakes, for all decisions, for all actions at the end of the school year, the responsibility does not fall on the representatives of the congregation or on the representatives of parents, falls solely on the representatives of teachers. We don't offer teachers absolute majority or even possible voting, because as a colleague mentioned earlier [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In fact, mathematics is such that voting cannot occur, but at some symbolic level we have added a few more opportunities for advertising, more opportunities for professional codecision to the entity that is actually the holder of expertise in the worlds. I do come from a very extreme congregation, but what I see in my congregation is simply scandalous. And that's what I'm trying to say here in front of the minister. The fact that students are sometimes abused for the political propaganda of a mayor is scandalous. I've seen children dressed by teachers in yellow shirts with the propaganda of the mayor's pamphlet called MOK. When I asked my teachers why they were doing this, they said, the congregation is strong, we depend on it, we get money from it, and otherwise we cannot behave. It's obvious abuse, abuse of education, abuse of schoolchildren, not to mention child abuse in Isola, when they were given the T-shirts of a client of the same mayor. With this extreme example of Kopra, I would like to say that unfortunately today education remains highly dependent on the political authorities in the municipalities, which in fact must become the service of citizens, not the political advantage. What the opposition is advocating is essentially the continuity of some political power in school decisions as well. The fact is, by increasing the number of teachers' representatives, we give at least one positive signal to those responsible in schools. Therefore, this insistence on the formula of three to three severe demagogies, which wants to maintain a system where there will be systematic abuse of schools, problems of schools and also of schoolchildren. Thus, I do not see any dilemma as to whether this law, this amendment to the law, is appropriate and that the SDS amendment is entirely unfounded and is motivated by the real interests not only of teachers, but of the interests of the school and especially of students and parents. I believe that the vast majority of parents who think in behalf of their pupils, their children, agree and approve such a new arrangement of consent within the world. With regard to the second amendment of the SNS Group, however, it must be said that in my explanation I have heard some serious dilemmas, especially when we come from a strictly legal point of view. On the other hand, I think it is more important that students actually engage in co-management of topics that are directly concerned. The fact is that the debate on the responsibility of the younger population is a debate taking place in the European Union. And let us not forget that there remain concrete proposals to finally lower the electoral threshold by 16. These discussions are very well-founded, because today we know that the younger population is also significantly different, it is learning faster, it is informed faster and there is a level of opportunity and responsible co-management of certain social themes faster. From this point of view, the SNS amendment is unfounded and counter-trendary. First of all, because this is not about electoral law, but it's about codecision and let's not forget, it's about two students, two representatives of students in sacred high schools. Above all, we can ask ourselves what happens when, say, 18-year-olds in high school are significantly smaller than others. The choice is democratic and it is the students who choose both representatives of their own interests. What if the one who is the most qualified representative of the other students is not yet 18 years old, but 17 and a half years old. While some 18-year-olds, say, are not interested. What would have happened then? Would we force an 18-year-old to be appointed if we even got a bad representative? I do not see any problems here, but I believe that in the process of selecting students' representatives, the students themselves will probably be trusted by those who are most qualified to do so and probably by these mostly older students. It seems to me that it is already self-evident that in these worlds, in general, they will be slightly older and more experienced students. So I cannot even support this amendment, to which I admit some rational arguments. The fact is that we need this change, that this change will regulate and restore some proportion that will have a beneficial impact on the quality of schools and will reduce the abuse of politics, political power and also of will in some cases, in my congregation, in relation to schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1 and the amendments? I'm opening time for an application. Here you go. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. To further discuss, I was encouraged by the actual debate by my colleague Yuri, who cited some important arguments, but also in some way drew attention to the anomalies that are taking place in our society. When he spoke about the abuse of students, for political purposes or for political purposes. In fact, in practice I myself experienced in the twenty-thirties and in addition to cases where, let's say, students were being misled in some way in their decision-making on the appointment of a school, around, at one time even strikes, full-time students, and abused underage students for these purposes. I am also afraid that this practice will be useful in local environments. It is said that one more argument is why in the Slovenian National Party we tabled an amendment requiring the full age of students. Last time these 18 years, this age is not made of vine-skinned arguments, there's no way to say, some regulation without any reasonable basis. We know for ourselves how it is in criminal proceedings, say, an important factor, 18 years. Sometime of age, it's said, a juvenile's ability to perform is limited to 21 years of age. So 18 years isn't just some blindly chosen age. So, to discuss this is not nonsense, as the colleague claims here, is quite an argument, which is to think about what it is, 18 years. Of course, I agree with the colleague that this can also be shown differently in the context of responsibility in school, in cooperation with school, in the partnership of students, and that I fully agree with her, but that it is to consider internally in the application of the decision-making rights within the world of institutions, if it were somehow legal for them to really decide on their own matters, but not, for example, on matters of working relationship or on accepting, for example, teaching programmes or on some more difficult professional matters, where, if discovered, we do not understand too much in terms of professional level, but I do not want to despise students, underage students, that they are not able to understand these matters, but we know from practice how it is. This proposal, 18 years - is said to have also given us an opportunity, let's say that in the current year or, what I know, it would in some way be worth taking into account when adopting this law. So much for my comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, hello. Of course, my debate may be slightly different from that of most coalition members. It is true that at the time of the adoption of the law, three years ago, I was not too excited about the change in the public office, and I am not, and I will tell you why. It is said that every time a government or every time a minister intervenes in this area, and that is not good. No real arguments. So when we passed the law three years ago and gave three:three:three, we had to change in the local community all the acts that are under this law and thus we had some costs. Today we are working again, we are amending this article again and it will be necessary to reintroduce all the decisions on the establishment. Now, whether it is wise or not, the question is, of course, and the question is also, how much can the individual public administration world influence the learning process, in particular we are talking about primary schools. There is actually a principal, there is actually a collective, and there is also a learning programme to be implemented. It is true, however, that through some of these public institutions we have pursued some kind of policy. And I'm not for one thing or the other, so I'm actually going to be out of rationality and because we're living in some kind of economic distress today, because every tolar that is needed at the local level for something else, not for the publication of some new decisions, voted for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u52	Your Honor, hello. I happen to be a pedagogical worker, a number of years of principal, then the mayor, and now I'm here in the National Assembly, where I see that we are also in the debates on education and education and changes to these laws all great experts. My experience as long-standing director is as follows: there was no need and it was not my desire or the desire of working groups to involve local policy in the professional work of the institution. Local policy - we know what function it has - prepares conditions for the good work of the school or kindergarten, everything else is the responsibility of the principal and the school team. That is why, of course, I agree that we will get five employees in the institution's world, because everything responsible for the success of the institution is on their shoulders. Today we are in strange situations, already the former Minister of the Beast, with constant changes, bad information and circulars and similar causes of unrest in schools and schools need peace. That is why I think it is necessary to settle matters that are urgently needed and then to allow these relations in collectives, the relations between the local community and the institution to calm down and the work to run as relaxedly as possible. Thinking about whether students should participate in the management of the institution or not is irrelevant today. I'm asking you, tell me where the evidence is that when someone is 18 years old, he's matured. Perhaps in some other environment, at many more years of age, someone has not matured and will never mature. Why do we have children's parliaments and come and listen when they're here or in schools when we have these conversations, we've had - well, because I'm not that lucky anymore. Come listen to these children, these youths, how sober, unburdened, unchained, very fair they discuss the things they tange about every day. It happens to us that parents are coming to parental meetings with lawyers. Where is he taking this thing? Right attitude, this triangle parent-student-worker, if that works, then you don't need a parent lawyer at school. I am also convinced that parents are the best unionists for their child, of course, if they see what parents sometimes don't like to see with their child and we are real. But people are different, different, different. That is why I think it is necessary to leave governance in the majority of the professionals in the public office, that the local community must be present enough to see what financial operations are like, what investments they need, how they will equip the school and so on. And that parents are so much in the world of the institution that they can control, check their rights, their children's rights and so on. Of course, we also have a world of parents, which you probably forget, where completely different relationships happen. That is why I will support the proposal of this law, including the decision that there should be at least two students in the world of the institution, regardless of age, because our students in all their maturity can choose the best for you. Abuse is everywhere and always possible. But there are many who need to worry about not being abused. We have inspection services, we have the Education Institute when we talk about the content of the programs and so on, so there are protection mechanisms that don't come to school what shouldn't come to school, that's politics and something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u54	Nicely greeted! I would look above all at the composition of the worlds or at the functioning of primary schools. My opinion is that as far as the composition of the world is concerned, three-three-three or five-three-three is completely irrelevant to the election of the director himself. If the Director is not able to provide at least two votes out of three to the parents’ representatives, then he is not capable of harm if he is the Director. It happens that principals, those who want to continue to run, prepare their territory in one way or another, so that the congregations had little influence. However, it would be good for the Ministry to do some analysis because we think in the congregations that quite a number of municipal councils were against the confirmation of the director and perhaps the analysis would show certain things that should be improved in other parts of the law or in other laws. Since representatives, saints, representatives of all the people of that congregation are also present in the municipalities, and if the majority - or agree - of - are against this principal, then someone might ask themselves why. I think most of the employees in the school itself, the institution wants -- what principal? They're going to date him best because they're deciding on him. If this is the best, the Ministry shall decide on this professionally and be evaluated by the municipality as the host. But the ministry is very far away, and it shows quite poorly how professional this director is. We have cases where the principals are 30, 40 years old, because they just can't be replaced. In many cases, time has hit them fairly and it happens that there are very good young teachers at school, but they do not come to terms in comparison with those older ones who are generations of principals and leave school because they do not see the possibility of prospering. Opinion of the Association of Municipalities. We, the Association of Congregations, have been visiting the minister and have made clear our position that we are against increasing the number of employees in the world of the institution. However, the Ministry was convinced that this was the case. I think that representatives should also be invited to the committees themselves, because this is a law concerning local self-government. I would also refer to the part where the curve provides certain things regarding the functioning of the plant, namely maintenance, investment maintenance and investment itself. In view of the fact that kindergarten is also an integral part of this institution in most municipalities, we are in a situation where there is great pressure on kindergartens, that we do not have spaces, and that it requires a lot of funding from us, which the Ministry of Finance says is not in proper use. I don't know where to get these funds from. About the establishment. I don’t see any more, even though I don’t know what it’s like in larger congregations, why would the congregation be the founder of a primary school when all it needs is to give money. It has no influence, it pays teachers the country, the municipality controls the plans and dictates the state, and the standards for the municipalities are dictated by the state. Only money is to be given to congregations that do not receive it from the State, even though the Constitution is so established. I am simply in the event that we have planned everything by law, but by the regulations dictated to us by the Ministry, we have come into a situation where there is no money and we cannot even be in charge of the investments that are urgently needed. I think we should also ask ourselves, given the autonomy of local self-government, as set out in the European Charter, whether they are indeed obliged to do all this at the end of the municipality, but if they do not have the conditions to be provided by the State. In the end, there might be more to secondary schools than primary schools. I remembered the words of one of our saints, who said on one occasion that "who can't do anything, he goes to teach others, but if he doesn't know it, he goes to politics".
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thanks again. So I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues, who are persistently mixing what the governing body is and what the expert body is, to look at the law. The managing authority is the board of the institution and it also sets out its tasks in the law: to appoint and discharge the director, to adopt a programme for the development of kindergartens, schools, and to approve the annual work plan. At school or in kindergarten, however, there is a teaching choir, a departmental assembly, professional activities, a teaching assembly, a study commission and they perform professional work at school, and they are not involved and they are not challenged. We are not saying that there must be a representative of the municipality, of course not, professional decisions, professional issues related to educational work, proposals for the introduction of superstandards, modernisation of the programme, etc. It is clear that teachers do this and that they do this to professionals who went to school for this, who have gained a lot of experience at the time of their teaching, and are probably the first to be called, who will be able to propose things that would be effective in the classroom, because they are in the classroom every day. It bothers me terribly that throughout the discussion, there is a constant impression that someone is now against teachers, someone is coming against saints, or against representatives of congregations, the founder against parents. In the holy institutions, there can be no one against anyone, because, as teachers are interested in, that their children are successful in making a class, that they have good grades, that they recognize talent, is certainly the wish of the mayor and the municipality that their school is organized, that it is good to achieve good results. Nobody's saying we have to work against each other now. If we do not work together, it is clear that neither the congregation nor the school will succeed, because these are future citizens tomorrow, children, and that is probably why we are all interested in getting as much at school as possible and staying responsible, etc. But when you talk about responsibility, learning success at the end of the year is a responsibility at the end of the principal, the teachers. True, the mayor’s responsibility is, however, if one window falls on someone’s head, then it will be the fault of the congregation or the mayor, because he does not provide money for some material expenses, which are necessary, that the learning process can run normally and that the school feels good for both children and teachers. Nevertheless, I would like to be a little more careful about how the congregations are against and against principals and teachers. The good director will still have a good relationship with the congregation because he has to take the task of ordering money every month, etc. It is logical that he will try or claim to have good relations with the congregation and vice versa, but the mayor does, I don't know, need them at a municipal celebration, etc., for an organization and something like that, and that's why people do it in harmony and co-existence. Regarding professional decisions, no one disputes, and it is only right that this remains in the domain of teachers, experts who are in school. Therefore, once again: the managing authority is something other than the professional bodies and also, since we have already been to sacred schools, because most things are accepted there, as suggested by the principal and the professional group, except for some exceptional matters or what needs to be gained the opinion and consent of the congregation, what payments exceed the standard, what schools in nature or any additional matters, and then it must also make an effort to support the congregation, because the municipality must provide additional money in its budget. And what I know about schools or congregations is, in most cases, not a problem. It's an extra language in fourth or I don't know what grade or something. And we have little to avoid creating some opponents in the school field. But if we say that we are for co-ordination and good cooperation, then I don't know why in the novel the Ministry also proposes that the world of parents can form working groups, but it has to get the opinion of the school leadership or consent - if we trust parents, the congregation of anyone involved in the process, why we don't let them unite if they want to. The rest of us have every opportunity to unite, engage in society, I don't know what to do, organize a variety of associations, why it is then necessary for the school's management to give consent, or it must be done in agreement with the school's leadership. Here, however, one wonders if we may not be afraid that our parents might have too much influence or might be too strong.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Because no one wants more? [[...]] Please, I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Up until now, education has worked well, responsible and professionally. The changes are, I believe, well-intentioned, because we are all aware that the responsibility lies in particular with the expertise and abilities of teachers. School management in a collective relationship with parents, the congregation, teachers and students should be a guarantee for the welfare of the school system. In some ways, I could agree that most teachers and that the congregation still have a part in the decision, which must not be decisive, because those who dominate the congregations always adopt the decision of the supremacy, which is a political and not professional decision. Here is the fear that we face when politics decides when a school will have an event or that it will have to postpone an event that has already been announced in public. That was recently, a month ago, in one of the congregations. We don't mind the presence of students' representatives. We are only asking whether this is legally valid, and that is all we have discussed and why we have tabled an amendment. In fact, it's about whether we have a political or professional director. Of course, we want professionalism to prevail over politics, especially when it comes to the education of our children. In the event that our amendment is not adopted, I am of the opinion that the proposal is adopted, as it is not acceptable to return to the old tracks. Extorting local communities in that they are the ones who finance is cynical because they have the money that we have in common and has always been provided from the budget of the congregation, even when there were other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment tabled in Article 5 by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Certainly this law has one red thread; this is the establishment of a perfect monopoly, both within education itself, because it gives even greater power to directors with the change we discussed in the previous amendment, as in this article, when it comes to the establishment of a monopoly at the state level. This Article is highly anti-European. Before I explain this, however, let me also justify why I will actually have to rely here exclusively on European arguments when I speak of this article and of the amendment to this article table tabled by the SDS Group. In fact, I would be happy to rely on the constitutional judgment, which, although previously widely referred to by the SD MP, mentioned how it had been tabled, but unfortunately I cannot do so, because the Constitutional Court again allowed itself to do something which was difficult to understand under a legal, democratic order, and it was precisely the day before this law was discussed in public that it rejected the requirement to assess the constitutionality of equality before the law, which was caused by the law, on the grounds that only 16 Members and Members were elected to a new reference, while at least 30 signatures were required to submit the request. But what's the trick here? In their failure to resolve themselves, they have thus unreasonablely extended the time frame of this constitutional judgment, that they were in the midst of an election, now put themselves in a position described, and thus used their own misdemeanour as an excuse not to decide on this important matter at all, although equality before the law is one of the fundamental constitutional categories. This is something unheard of and personally I think it would be appropriate to look at the possibility of opening this subject up in Brussels, before the legal institutions of the European Union, to point out that we have a Constitutional Court, which is becoming the highest body for human rights limitation, not for their protection, as has already happened in a referendum initiative weeks ago. Of course, the Constitutional Court has left this topic open without a constitutional judgment, and so it will be evident by the will of the ruling coalition that the subject of cultural struggle will be again and again. In fact, it is all the sadness of this decision, and I must say that I deeply regret it. For the situation from which it had been made so far has been insufferable. You all know that the Waldorf School in Ljubljana was 100 % funded from public funds under the basic programme. And the same school - the same school! - but 85% was funded in Maribor. Where is equality before marriage? Are the Mariborians 15% less valuable than the Ljubljanaers? Orwellian, isn't it? All animals are the same. Only one of them is the same as the other. But what does this law do now? This law is in this sense more non-European than even the previous one, at the time of Dr. Gabra, adopted a law that has regulated it so far. You know why? Because it simply equates everything to a lower level, it interferes with the rights acquired, which, by the way, is also a constitutional category. And when you had so much to say about the consensus of the affected, I am very interested in whether the consensus of the affected is also affected for this reduction. Your answer is probably as clear to you as it was to me. Now, why is this article so highly non-European, and why is it so important for this debate? You must know that Europe has also repeatedly warned us in writing that it would be valid in Slovenia to strengthen competitiveness and strengthen the private part of education, which is the same as public education. This is a terrible imbalance under all European criteria. 98% is a public education system and only poor 2% is a private education, which is always fought by culture. Who's that threatening? This is about as if in an animal garden in a bear cage and at times one small hedgehog would creak up and drink some of the water they give him, and then it is decided that this hedgehog would endanger the bear and that if the bear feels threatened, the hedgehog should be killed. This is something you have suggested with the following article, in which, only in connection with it, this article is clear, in which you wrote about the threat to public education, which is absurd again. Consider again the case of the Waldorf School. It does not come from a district where it is not located, not one child, but from different parts of Slovenia. And so if the school in that district, the public school, has too few children, they're going to shut down Waldo's school for that. But that is why that public school will no longer have any pupils because they are from other parts of Slovenia. This, of course, means how unreasonable, how ideologically this law was established. Why, therefore, should the recommendations of the European Union be followed in the context of this law in full and clearly contrary to European trends? The answer to that, you know, the answer to that is to strengthen the monopoly, the monopoly in all areas of social life, because this is the only way to guide your policies, was and remains. I regret that, once again, I can only find out that even the Gabro government, which, although coalitionly, was as composed as it is now, was more democratic and more European than the current one, which is obviously entirely anti-European, proves this by this very article. In this sense, we have proposed the only possible solution, but it will also in some way expose things to what is going on. We have just proposed an amendment that allows for at least the social weaknesses to be fully covered, 100% therefore, by the cost of their education. For the country, however, and I claim that the constitutional standard would be fulfilled only if, for all, regardless of the form of education, the public and private pay 100%, because the constitutional category is that this education is free of charge and that the choice, ladies and gentlemen, of parents is one of the fundamental constitutional rights. This is about the rights to education, the right to education, these are constitutional categories, which are specifically protected by the Slovenian Constitution. Therefore, the sarcastic conduct of the Constitutional Court is even more difficult to understand. How can they take the view that they will not make a decision about this at all? This, I'm sorry, is beyond all limits. And I suppose now that there has been an initiative at the same time, I wonder if I am wrong, with this forecast, they will be, once - I doubt it - adopted your law, you said, but now this matter is resolved and it does not need to be decided. It is not saved because it is not clear what equality is like before the law and how it is by interfering with acquired rights when it comes to the rights of parents and children. For in this case it is the parents and children who are also taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. And you used to say that money when it comes to education doesn't matter - why you do that in this article and put yourself on a lie. This is 2%, 2% poor compared to 98%, which is represented by public education. Now, why is it European direction that private education should also be strengthened? There are some facts to be said here. This is an important European category because in Europe they are very clearly aware that in private education you are more likely to test some programmes and then, of course, if they turn out to be good, they introduce studies into public education. In Slovenia, too, this has made it even more difficult to understand. In particular, some parts of mathematics in public education are summarised by the system of the Waldorf School, followed suit; some other cases are also known from the public education system, which has taken on good examples from private education. Nor is it true that it is often referred to as a floscule, that then good teachers go to private school. Teachers' salaries are the same here and there, so there's no difference here. More! If you have read an interview by the headmaster of the Waldorf School in recent days, you may have read that teachers have consciously reduced their salaries there so that they could fully fulfill the program, to the benefit of their students. And you're taking their money. Non-European, ladies and gentlemen, and in full and obviously contrary to the instructions of the European Union, and I say that it is also unconstitutional. So in such a Constitutional Court, which is doing as I have said before, I do not believe that it is even possible to reach one normal constitutional judgement and it will have to wait for another composition to take time and knowledge to decide at least the key things that the Constitutional Court should judge. In fact, this trick is that the Constitutional Court does not judge something because it makes a case, and then uses it as an excuse not to decide at all, in some other cases it has not been used - this is very interesting. For example, when it came to the Act on the Incompatibilities of Public Functions, it was exactly the same story, but it was relatively fast decided, there was no problem, and here it is! And watch out, the constitutional review request was filed in 2007, and now it's 2009. It is probably clear to everyone that within a reasonable period of time, such an important category as constitutionality in law - and for children, the right of parents to raise children and, of course, the right to quality education - could be realized long ago. From this point of view, the only possibility of improvement that remains for us at this point is the deletion, which I personally do not believe, because I see what coalition it is, or at least the adoption of an amendment that we have proposed, which will expose at least one element. Too often, when we talk about private education, we use that floscule: it is elitism. What the hell! I've said before that all conditions are the same for both of us. But in this case, it's about accessibility to school, the real possibility of making school choices. That is to say, it is a matter of providing the socially weak with full funding for the programme, so that these parents will not be affected and thus be able to fully exercise their constitutional right to choose, to choose education and to choose education for their children, which is their fundamental constitutional right. Not only does our Constitution speak of it, it is also spoken of internationally, by Slovenia the ratified Charter, but some of the basic Charters of the European Union also speak of it. That's what it says, the thing from this point of view is so much more neat. That is why I call on you to prove your European and ultimately your social orientation for the sake of the child and for the good of Slovenian education - who is in need of this encouragement, who also needs this pillar, and in particular to prove your social orientation, as this proposal is, in essence, deeply social - support the amendments of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss Article 5? I'm opening time for applications. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you. I will not support the amendment of the SDS to Article 5 of the Act because the law does not modify the basic provisions of Article 5. It preserves the 85% provision of funds for the programme and only defines the novel in more detail that private schools do not have the means of investment, investment maintenance and equipment. This is just a clearer provision of what is now in existence in the law. What brings the amendment is the extension of powers. Now I am not going to talk about textbooks, but I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court, in its 2001 decision, confirmed our position, which the Social Democrats have always advocated. And we believe that this has been adequately resolved in the current legislation. It is the duty of the State to provide legal frameworks for private education, but it is not imposed on the State to finance private education equally, this is a private matter. And the right to compulsory education and the constitutional obligations of the State are met at a time when the state provides a sufficiently dense network of public schools for individuals to be able to join the school, and the protection of the public network is ensured in this case by providing sufficient resources. If the school was threatened by a lack of funds, the public school would be protected, not because of another, in Article 6. The Constitutional Court also points out, once again, that when the provisions of Article 87 of the ZOFVI have been assessed, it is necessary to understand that the existence of a public school is threatened at a time when it should be closed due to a lack of resources. I will leave with all the experience they have, probably also some who sit up here from some of the environments where private schools have acquired quality teachers from public schools on the means they have public schools, about the music I talk about, teach in a private school and there is much more to be said. All these Facules on Europeanism or non-Europeanism: Europeanism has been taken into account by our school legislation. There is a legal possibility of establishing private schools, and the state and founder are what it will give to implement the programme. Let me remind you that the public opinion was also on the side of those who advocated that 85% of the funding for the implementation of the programme was sufficient for private schools, and therefore it was also set out on 100% of the funding of the programme under the proposed amendment to the law in 2006. That's what you have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri. Is it a replica? It's a debate. Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that I did not intend to support this amendment, but now I am even more convinced that the amendment is wrong after I tried to reach an MP who tried to argue with absurd arguments. In the meantime, let's say that the Constitutional Court's constitutional decision is wrong, because the composition of the Constitutional Court is such that it should probably be amended. Interesting! In democracy, we would add that this same gentleman would like to change the people, because he did not vote as he expected. The fact is that this debate and this attempt to substantiate the amendment proved once again that the advocates of this amendment are advocates of cultural struggle and are drawing Europe, of course, one part of Europe that wants a gradual decomposition of all public education, in particular public health and public health. So a private cult as an alternative to the public, which is supposed to be strengthened by public money. I think that Slovenia has provided the legal framework for a private school that is not demonized, because private school is also useful, is quality and is complementary where public school would not be able to expand its networks. But it is our duty, the duty of the state to allow all citizens and citizens, and all children of these citizens, the possibility of public education; that is, quality education, which should not be ideological, which should actually be a school that offers all the same opportunities for social advancement. Therefore, in the coalition, we all agree that public education, as well as all the other pillars of public interest in this country, should be strengthened. The fact that we also allow the development of private education and that we co-finance private education from the public budget is a fact. The attempt to equalize the financing of public and private education is extremely immoral. Especially immoral at a time when this country, as other European countries, is in a serious crisis, when it is necessary to move from a rebalancing to a rebalancing of the budget in order to enable the survival of all public, public offerings of the country, and right now I would like to strengthen or weaken one part of the opposition in trying to maintain some pillars of public interest and public good. And that's education. I want a quality education, quality as the best private schools. And that is why I do not accept the logic of continuing to break public education by taking away part of the taxpayer's money and redirecting it to the public sector. So, of course, it is also a "cultural struggle", in narration, it is a matter of collecting a Europe that will keep the social state "wellfare state", which will ensure that the social state works smoothly and that the private sector will only be complementary, in these key public pillars, although the private sector is dominant in the economy. It is clear that in some infrastructure pillars, we must not derogate from the public. Slovenia has maintained itself as a social state in these years precisely because of this awareness and we are envied by many. Slovenia has maintained good social content if it submitted to the logic of the authors of this amendment, it would, of course, slowly move into another dimension, a different logic, and slowly move away from the public interest to the benefit of the private. So I insist, and this is also our party's position, we will not support this amendment, while we support changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Member Andrei Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, maybe one more time. The right of our citizen in Slovenia is to enroll his child in a public school and, last but not least, he cannot be burdened with some ideologies that rule in some, I will say, private schools. That is why the responsibility of that teacher and those school leaders is so much greater, and it is not least intended to pay and value their work or the quality of their work. I can't imagine that, just in terms of reality, certain imbalances between private and private, which we have in the field of health, could be made in the past or in the field of school. Let me just remind you how threatened certain systems of public music schools are, and I only recall in 2006, when the previous government, without any discussion, ended, at the expense of the lack of funds and the allocation of funds to private schools, not least, parallel secondary music departments in Celje, Velenj and Koper - without any discussion, at the expense of the lack of funds, and at the same time financed private schools. Of course, the outflow or outflow of teachers from public schools that is taking place. Let's just look at the numbers on registered teachers or individual candidates for private schools, which are mostly owned by the Roman Catholic Church. That says that payments are better. I will not say that this is a claim, but I can think of it as a taxpayer, and there are probably many who are behind me, that in the past 20 years from our public money and resources, which have been in the course of denationalisation or, last but not least, the return of property or real estate matters has been so much capital that in paying teachers both in private schools and public schools there is a great difference. Therefore, I absolutely cannot support this amendment, and I still say that the Institute of Public Education needs to be strengthened with expertise, staff and adequate payment. As a result, private schools are a matter of privacy and thus a payment from private resources, and only in part can they be made from public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you. I must say that I am very pleased to have waited, because it has become clear that there is also one deep substantive misunderstanding of constitutional norms, because Mrs SD Member said now: the right to enroll in a public school. Madam, the constitutional norm is the right to choose, but let us all read the Slovenian Constitution before we discuss at least in this Chamber. The right to choose parents when it comes to raising their children is a constitutional category and the right to education is very clear from the Constitution. Parents have the right to choose that education for their children, who are convinced that they benefit the most and that it is in line with the values of their parents. It is not now, as a member of Parliament from Zares said before, extremely immoral if you advocate European standards, as I commit myself to supporting the SDS. But it is extremely immoral to prevent the actual choice of education and education based on money, which is extremely immoral. And for this reason, it will only be moral if I use my colleague's term to vote for the SDS amendment, which also allows those of socially weak families to have a real choice that is not conditional on money, education and education for their children, because this constitutional category will be fully fulfilled. Finally, I cannot help but answer the Member's comment that we want to replace the people in the SDS. Dear Member from Zares, in view of the last elections in which the SDS won for as much as 8% of the points, and your client overcame even the LDS, from which you used to make a fool, I must say that I am extremely pleased with the Slovenian people and fully accept his decisions, as always. What is unpleasant to you, however, is that from your words you want to replace the entire European Union. For, once again, the European Union has pointed out that this part of education, which is important, is not dominant, even extremely small. How small? I'll make a comparison. Look, there's a poor private school coming to over 200 public schools. And how can this one poor private school be so horrifying to all those strong 200 or almost 250 public schools that come, if you count this number into one -- it's probably just those who propose some additional restrictions, tightenings, fuses and the like that will lead to some abuse, which I've already talked about. The European Union points out that this is an important part of education and I will say again why. Because it covers a special part, because it also allows for more choice, because it also gives more courage to introduce new methods and also part of new programmes, those which are publicly verified by the State. But in these methods, they have more courage, and perhaps this is also a challenge for those teachers when you said before that they would go to a private school. Because some particular challenge is to introduce a new method, its test, its work, and whether it is a good solution. And those good solutions from private education are then transferred to public education, and in Slovenia there are such cases, ladies and gentlemen. That is why this is your additional restriction, which is totally contrary to even the written recommendations of the European Union, so extremely non-European. How can I, once again, ask and please answer this question - how can a private school come to 250 schools, about so is the relationship and this one private school threatens all those 250? Or if I go back to that comparison with the bear and the hedgehog - in this case, the hedgehog can only be endangered if something is seriously wrong with this bear. But then the bear is sick and requires treatment. But if that's true, then you know what the problem is. But I am firmly convinced that we have a quality public education and that the only part that needs to be further supported and strengthened and in this sense, because it is small, even properly regulated, is this part that we are talking about. Here is the fundamental question, today we are not proposing 100% for all schools or similar things, but we are proposing that it be simply by means of a social sense, so that the constitutional option, the right to choose education and education for their children, is also available to the socially weak, that it is actually attainable to them and that it is not bound to money. The more socially-oriented proposal, I'm sorry, it was not even possible to propose in this law. And now, in support of your support or non-support, we can also very clearly assess who is who, who is involved in social behaviour and in the realization of constitutional provisions, constitutional rights for all and for all and for the same, and who has a lot to say about it, is just a fig in his pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. My friend Grimes misquoted me. First of all, he said that I referred to it as an immoral, non-compliance with European standards. That's not true! You'll see in the tape that I didn't say that. I think it is an immoral attempt to further break up public school with such squabbles and with such initiatives. Let's say Bob Bob, Mr Grimes. When we talk about private education, we are primarily talking about the Roman Catholic Church. Because these interests remain, above all, the institution most privileged in the tax and non-tax terms, even in our country. And this debate, which is taking place in Europe, is not only ours. This is discussed in Spain, where the Sapater government also decided to strengthen public education, causing an earthquake and a strong reaction and response in particular to the Roman Catholic Church, which is behind private education in Spain. The same thing happened in Italy, etc. Right governments are trying to level - and this is logical - public and private education from the point of view of the public budget. Left governments are trying to strengthen public education and maintain private education in a framework where it can be developed qualitatively because they know that the capital behind this education, stands the Church, stands a privilege, such as taxation. Do you know how many privileges the Roman Catholic Church has in Slovenia? How much assets did she get at the expense of denationalization? Oooh, yes, returned, returned, returned, even from Napoleon's time! It's back! But when it's a strong institution, without even that 15% of the public budget that we need for public interest and public education, it won't go to waste. And I think that synergies and dialogue between public and private education are only possible on the basis of this key equality, equality of all citizens and citizens in our country. And I want a public education where my child can study qualitatively, just like in private schools where others will apply. And that's it, Mr Grimes. It's actually about equality, but you mix the protruding and you represent, of course, one very strong interest, which is legitimate, but is very strong and is particularly interested in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u71	Mr. Yuri, please, if you'll finish. Three minutes for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I suggest we reopen the time to report, even though I've seen Mr Grimes, someone else may want to. Please report to anyone who wants to discuss. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u74	Good morning, cultural battle! If anyone wanted to confirm my words that the ruling coalition was going along, as well as those in the Constitutional Court who were working as their extension, that is why he can now live. There was not a single word in any of my sentences about what Ambassador Zareza was talking about. I was only talking about the Waldorf School case. This is because it is important because, after the Waldorf School, some programs in public education and certain methods have been followed, and because there is the most obvious injustice in the sky for children and parents due to the existing legislation, when the Waldorf School in Ljubljana is 100 per cent funded from public funds in the basic programme and 85 per cent in Maribor. So it is obvious for some in Ljubljana that someone is more valuable than those in Maribor. And that's a mistake, and that's obvious injustice and inequality before marriage. I therefore point out once again how very inappropriate legal and substantive, as it is also politically not to resolve an important decision, the conduct of the Constitutional Court, which has refused the possibility of deciding on this issue. But I didn't talk about it myself, not in the SDS anyone, we talked about the importance of competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, the European category is competitiveness. For only long-term competitiveness, in any area of social life, provides a momentum for further development. It teaches all history, whether it's politics, whether it's education, whether it's any entrepreneurship or anything else that modern society faces. Only competitiveness was a driver of development. In a given case, when the relationship, or better said, is the imbalance between these two pillars of education, as understood by modern Europe, so much so that 98% to less than 2% is in favour of public education, of course it is pointless to talk about strengthening public education. We can only talk about monopolisation. That's why I used that term from the beginning. And this tendency, reinforcement, desire is evident from the proposed solutions in the law to establish an even stronger monopoly here than is already present, is extremely non-European and is harmful for Slovenia in the long term. Because this minimal competitive charge, represented by those schools that you don't like, headed by the Waldorf School, is, in fact, also an incentive and a movement and you have yourself fallen into contradiction, contrary to your own words, when you say, I want my child to go to a public school that will be as good as a private school. Public school will be as quality as private only if it is under, in some way, pressure, or better said influences, including options for choosing private education. Then, of course, there will be more obedience to the example, then there will be more obedience to the introduction of new methods, then there will be more obedience to the strengthening of responsibility, then there will be more obedience to the strengthening of quality work with children. And that's our common goal. For this reason, Europe recalls that this is a very important part that has been maintained in Slovenia in the past. And you're also putting weights on his feet. Why do you do this, the obvious answer can be one, because of the desire to establish a total monopoly, because instead of the professional solutions that Europe advocates and the European values unfortunately in this case, ideology prevails in you too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Andrei Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u76	Just so I can say that maybe I can't think of all the constitutions, but [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Article 57 clearly states that education is free. [[...]] My point was that it was our citizen's right to enroll his child in a public institution or elementary school. But, you know, it's public. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I can see that we have concluded the debate by Article 5 and the amendment by Article 5. We turn to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He does. I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting also to teachers and teachers who are here on the balcony, secretary of state! With this amendment, the ruling coalition, where it says that a three-month or shorter interruption does not mean the interruption of a direct work done - in fact, you are making a fool of teachers and teachers who carried out their mission when they taught us. See, in particular, at primary school you have two departments today, because of the smaller entry will one department, next year because of the larger enrollment you will again have two departments, a teacher or teacher who has studied 30 years or more in this school, lost her job and will never be able to study at this school again and will lose her not only professionally but also human dignity. Or another case. In a three-month interruption, which you say is not an interruption, and what you are going to legalize, it says, so it is clear that she will apply for an invitation, she will have an opportunity at a neighbouring school, but 20 different teachers or teachers will also be registered at that invitation from the 7th grade and so on. The one who's going to apply over 50 years of age, etc., with the possibility of hospital surgery, I don't know what, or a young woman at 30, maybe even with a child or two - who do you think the principal will choose? In short, with this amendment simply from teachers and teachers, unfortunately, you're making fun. Of course, he is unworthy of such government coalitions, ruling coalitions with the principle of Social Democrats - what does that mean, God help. Such an amendment would be, or a solution to it, an amendment if it were accepted by me, which I myself have put into the labour force, to 146th Article, where the professional workers referred to in Article 1 (1), paragraph 146, meet the educational conditions of education, education and work and should be treated equally on the basis of the call for a job and the surplus workers provided for in the post. Well, it's very simple. However, in this way you throw about 5,000 teachers on the track, which is slightly over 10%, probably, of the entire population of elementary school teaching staff, as far as you can at the time of Moore's workers going on the track, etc., or they lose their jobs, it is your strategy and the doctrine of solving economic problems. Of course, in my profound belief, extremely bad and completely unacceptable. You know, in 1996, when the law was passed, although it was "hinava", but in that law it was written that employees in the education and education system, so those who were then met the conditions and did not write anything about such an interruption. And unfortunately, even then, the far-reachingness of this 146th article - probably, I don't know, whether it's hot or unwilling - has also ignored the union. But if it is, then I'm surprised today that the district union committee calls on teachers to object to the fact that the union doesn't care about everything or whether these 5,000 teachers really don't mean anything to him. Moreover, the president of the union says, of course, I am aware of the dilemma, but in the end he says that he "slipped" with a ruling coalition or with the ministry, which means, of course, that such a union, which I was also a member of for more than 10 years, you don't need and that's not good. This is not how to work with these teachers and teachers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Finally: if you accept this amendment, I recommend for the first time that we reject the law, because we already have another law in the back, it is put in to solve these matters. Secondly, if you adopt such a law, then the message I think is: respected teachers and teachers sitting on the balcony or watching this session via television broadcasts, broadcast [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a message to his colleagues from the ruling coalition. [[...]] You were good 30 years ago when you taught us, and now we're throwing you on the road because we don't need you anymore. Don't forget to add that this is a message from a coalition with Social Democrats to a principle that is European and democratic [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All Members of Parliament are also likely to receive some materials. I have here one in front of me, which says, so to begin: "I am a teacher, I hardly hope to admit, with VI. level of education. Then, clearly, a lot of text and also says, among other things: "The legislator laid down higher education in 1996 in the framework of the School Code on the organisation and financing of education and education for teachers and other professionals. Thus, it was legal for teachers in primary school VII. level of education or university education in the right direction." In addition, "as a condition for teaching work, the law for teachers with higher education at the time stipulated that only two were already employed in the system of education and education on the day of the implementation of the law" - these teachers concerned - "and that they met certain conditions that were in force by law. Only a few years later did it prove that such a loose formulation of the permissible provision of Article 146 was not chosen by accident." I have a question here - we also had teachers who had only a secondary education. And as I know, those teachers had to leave these jobs, because they didn't even get an education for VI. Level. So it could have been a signal to teachers who didn't have VII at the time. the levels to be adapted. I think that perhaps this weakness could also be caused by this, and see if we are talking about lifelong learning in our country. So, who is the greatest example of lifelong learning - most likely these teachers, teachers. And that it would be possible for them to learn one way or another, for one of the teachers says: "Teachers with higher education, who, due to the introduction of a nine-year primary school, have obtained the required certificates for further education and were mentors to many students, to restore human and professional dignity through these changes. At the conclusion of the study, professionals with the sixth level of education received the appropriate and required education for work in education and education." As I know, all the education they had to do if these teachers had decided to formalise their education, this acquisition would probably have been recognised in the education process. Above all, I would like to say one thing: I am in favour of not preventing these teachers from education, work and equality, but I would appeal to them to go, just as many businesses must, if they want to keep their jobs, into the process of further education or lifelong education. I understand that they are also educated in the workplace every day, they are learning new knowledge every day, and they need to be formalized. I don't think it's so hard that you can't do that and avoid all these inconveniences in this way. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the process of adopting the amendment of the law is controversial precisely from this point of view, because we believe that this could go to the general debate and not to the discussion after a reduced procedure, so that we can also address and give teachers the opportunity, because I am sure that they have sufficient knowledge, a great deal of knowledge, that these matters are formalized and that we avoid all these inconveniences. I would like to say and conclude once again by talking about lifelong education, that people working in education are certainly the first example of how to approach, formalize, and if in our country there is a need to be a level plus a high quality of knowledge condition, but not perhaps the other way around, where there is a large amount of knowledge and then unformal education, a little differently, it is necessary to adapt to this system, to meet it, to take this path and to avoid such problems, of course for the affected and only education in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm opening time for applications. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! Not by its content, not by its practical definition of the amendment proposed by the ruling coalition, does it follow the wishes and actual needs of the people who are here today among us. I come from the petition of the SVIZ Regional Committee Ptuj for equal treatment of teachers with the sixth level of education. I am therefore also coming from an area where this has actually been tested in practice, what this means, when the former head of primary school was also a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when he returned, he lost his job. This is, of course, a sad story of individuals, but with increasing references to knowledge inflation, however, it is reflected at another level. If I take some thoughts from the content of this petition from the Ptuj Regional Committee, I might say that not even co-workers belonging to the same union are united. Whether this is due to belonging to a political option or not, of course, it is very wrong. I am sure that with such a concept and thus the union does not want its members what members expect. And when members expect help, they are essentially given a "snatcher" or also limited to those activities that are legal, legitimate, which express the will and desire of some of the people who are in these professions. I am convinced that even the ruling coalition cannot pass through the facts and arguments in order to take the time to think and stop the procedures for adopting a definitive regulation of this area, in order to at least partially try to follow the demands of those who come from practice to those who want to make things better. I think it would be right to wait for a final decision on the content of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I note that we have concluded the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. We are moving on to the debate on Article 8 and the amendment, or two amendments, and the first amendment has been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups and the second Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Anybody want a word? I take it that I do not and I conclude the debate. We turn to Article 9a and the amendment to Article 9a, which has been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Nobody wants a word. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 9b and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to Article 10 and Amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I take it we've closed the debate. He wants a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u84	Presidents, Members, Members of Parliament, thank you very much! I listened to the debate, it was extensive and I think the arguments are cleared for and against, so we are ready to make decisions. I would only like to respond to some of the other issues that have been raised here in the debate. The biggest discussion was with regard to local communities. Look, local communities were involved. The position of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia was not correctly cited, which also states in its letter: "We are pleased that Minister Igor Lukšič of the Community has offered an opportunity to participate in this renovation." And so on. In short, they were included, they noticed that they were included, only some here did not notice this. So, the Congregations' Association has even formed an amendment. 25 or so are mayors of the National Assembly. Mayors also participate in this debate and, among others, Mr Peršak as a member of the Management Board of the Association of Municipalities. And I also talked to the mayors individually on visits and so on. So, among other things, some mayors are also for municipalities to appoint primary school administrators, as was the case with self-government socialism. So let's be consistent here, let's see what's really been said. Our position is here to give weight to teaching, not to politics, and not to local politics. Then it's some sort of argument that's very much on torn legs. Some here have suggested that teachers get the majority. Since five out of eleven are not the majority, this argument is, of course, on the stand. Most would be six out of eleven. Teachers only get five seats. Then someone in the debate talked about eliminating the possibility of parents starting working groups. That's not true. What is being abolished is that parents are setting up working groups on education and education. So we only delete the fact that parents form groups in the field of education and education, which is the responsibility of teachers and other professional educators. So what's important is that the partnership stays. These are teachers, representatives of the community—the founder, or the congregation, or the ministry—and parents. An important message we give is: we believe in this school, we believe in the good work of teachers, and the school stands on them. Then there was a broad debate on private and public. Nobody's against private school. There's a broad consensus on that. What we are introducing in the last instance is the protection of a public school in the event that, for example, in a small local community where there is only one school, someone wants a private school concession. This country must not be allowed to do so. What is really possible at the level of private schools is the opening of schools in larger centres and larger cities; what is happening to us now is Maribor, Ljubljana. We have private primary schools there, but in smaller centres this is, of course, less possible. So whoever wants to have a private school should set it up and finance it. Only a small proportion of the country can help. I would also like to say that at the level of higher education we have 50% of private schools and 50% of public schools, so it is not true that this country is blocking the development of private education as well. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's over. [[...]] Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have thus concluded the debate on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The amendments to the bill will be decided tomorrow, on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Patrick Vlačič to explain the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. The Law on Rail Transport Amendments and Supplements must be amended in some points, namely, the basic objective of the proposed Amendments and Supplements Act is the timely implementation of the European Union directives into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law on the administrative order of the Republic of Slovenia fully implements Directive 2007/58 of the European Community and partly Directive 2007/59 of the European Community. The remaining part of Directive 2007/59 will be implemented with amendments and additions to the Rail Safety Act, which is almost complete at this time. The implementation of the Directives has also shown some uncertainties and inconsistencies in the law in force, thereby eliminating such gaps and, above all, those which are most necessary in terms of transport safety. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Traffic contains substantive content: it opens up the market for train routes intended for international passenger transport from 1.1.2010; it protects the conflict of interest that could arise by opening the market for passengers in internal and cross-border regional rail transport provided by the State as public goods with a compulsory public service - in favour of this compulsory public service; it defines the conditions for the conclusion of framework contracts for infrastructure capacity for a multi-annual period longer than the timetable, which is important to ensure railway transport for potential financial investments in more permanent installations in the Republic of Slovenia; it complements the tasks of the regulatory authority to monitor competition on the railway market; it grants the security authority powers with regard to the enforcement of railway workers; it grants powers with respect to entities training railway authorities; Consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act is provided for in a reduced procedure, since the deadline for the implementation of Directive 2007/58, which opens the market for international passenger trains in the order of the Member State on 4 June 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Janko Webra, as President, to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 4th meeting, held on 30 June 2009, the Transport Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act. The debate took place by opening a presentation by the State Secretary, Dr Igor Jakomin, who presented the main solutions to the bill. These relate to the opening up of the market for train routes for international passenger transport, the protection of a conflict of interest that could arise by opening the market in the transport of passengers in internal and cross-border regional rail transport provided by the State as a public good by a compulsory economic public service. In addition, he pointed out that the tasks of the regulatory authority to monitor competition on the train market were being complemented, and that the security authority was given powers in the field of licences for enforcement railway workers, conferred powers on entities training enforcement railway workers and conferred powers on the control of licences issued in the public railway infrastructure area. In view of these starting points and the content of the law, the members of the committee in the debate drew attention to the issue of issuing safety certificates to other operators by allowing them to decide on their own cargo insurance and transport safety. Therefore, it was considered necessary to supplement the safety certificates by making it impossible for foreign operators to become more competitive and to carry out transport safety checks by an independent body designated by the Ministry. Some members of the Committee considered that the solution in the proposal for a law transferring the power to charge charges from the Slovenian Railways to the Public Railway Agency was inappropriate both in terms of the transfer itself and in terms of the Agency's human resources competence. On all these issues, the drafter of the law also provided additional explanations, and also on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee adopted amendments tabled by both the Parliamentary Groups of the Social Democrats, the Zares Group, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, at the same time forming its amendment to Article 16. The text thus formulated is also in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee drew up the text of the amended draft law, which included the amendments adopted. The amended draft law is an integral part of the report, which is still being considered today at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u90	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Complements of the Rail Transport Act. This amendment of the law is also about harmonising the Slovenian acquis with European Union law. The implementation of the Railway Directives is urgently needed as the transposition deadline for one Directive has already expired and the second Directive is the deadline for implementing the beginning of December this year. The news brought by these two Directives and thus the proposal for a amendment to the Rail Transport Act relate mainly to the opening up of the market for international passenger transport by rail, namely all carriers registered in the European Union, which means that the right of entry into public rail infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia will be fully released for all applicants in the European Union. Although this right has already been released in the field of the implementation of goods transport, the previous package of directives has been extended to international passenger transport, which is being released as of 1 January 2010. The release of the market in international passenger transport is, on the one hand, a great advantage, as it brings a significantly larger market, and thus greater opportunities for better service delivery in terms of greater competitiveness. On the other hand, this release can cause the liberalisation of this sector mainly from the point of view of the smallness of our country, as the European principle of free movement of goods and services certainly favours a large system and not smaller than the one represented by the Republic of Slovenia. This lack of a European principle of free movement of goods, persons and services has been repeatedly pointed out by DeSUS Members, such as in postal and banking services. The Republic of Slovenia is a full member of the European Union and our commitment, inter alia, is to respect the EU's legal order, which is based on these principles of free movement. Members of the DeSUS will support the proposed amendment of the Rail Transport Act, as we have no reservations to the proposed solutions to the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u92	Dear Minister! Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the European principle of free movement of goods, people and services is essential for Slovenia as well. And it is right that we implement the directives into our legislation and thus become equal to all the neighbours who actually carry out free movement through transit routes, market these transit routes and, last but not least, allow foreign operators to carry out transports within their Euro Corridors. When we talk about whether I can correct the chairman of the committee when he spoke in plural, the Slovenian National Party has pointed out the need to pursue national interests in the granting of security certificates in such a way as to, in particular, from a technical point of view, because we have already given security certificates to certain foreign operators and have also committed them or allowed them to judge for themselves the technical adequacy of the costs and means of driving. This is unacceptable, and this threatens our national interest in transport security and regulation, and I have also made a request that was in some way positively accepted, at least Mr Secretary of State, the Minister was not at the meeting, and he has assured me that this will be taken into account. We in the Slovenian Railways have a technical train service that should be taken care of, and today concerns, including with personal responsibility, workers confirm this, by signing each day, when reviewing the loads and are the last to allow, inspect the train and allow the train to leave. And this job should also take care of foreign operators. Why am I saying this? Simply because if we look at the cost of the transport segment on a gross ton kilometer, in this segment there is 30% of the cost of insurance. And foreign operators will certainly, the first thing they want to do is save something or increase profits and suspend insurance and thereby endanger our safety and traffic management. Let me remind you that Slovenia is specific to the configuration of the terrain and that we have lines that have very large ups. For example, the new locomotives we bought, due to the inadequacy of a line that does not have a category D4 from the Wall Bridge, they are not allowed to drive at all. According to the domestic statement, the lower track structure is not suitable or does not provide a load strength of 22.5 tonnes per axle. This is actually an additional argument that it is imperative that this security and orderly segment be controlled by us. That's perfectly normal. See, around the world they also build motorways, they are built by foreign contractors or they get a concession to build, but they simply don't bring their own police there to control traffic. However, they can market in this infrastructure by collecting the corresponding toll. We welcome the opening of new train paths markets. There is also a need to protect the conflict of interest. The conditions for the conclusion of framework contracts for infrastructure capacity should be defined. Of course, we must also allow regulation to the authority that will ensure competition on the train market, but things are stuck with the safety authority and I have also proposed here, the proposal was accepted that existing safety certificates are also being revised, particularly with RCA, and that this clause is actually introduced to guarantee safety and traffic regulation. We do not oppose this proposal or this addition to the law in the Slovenian National Party. It's kind of necessary, and it's also self-sustaining to supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u94	Dear Mr. Secretary, your honors are here! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that by introducing this law, the Government could intervene in the organisation and work in the field of rail transport in Slovenia, even though the applicant claims that these directives do not require an interference with the existing system, but only require the establishment of additional tasks for existing institutions in the country and require all members of the European Union to simultaneously open up the market for train routes intended for international passenger transport. The operation of the Slovenian Railways has long been in a deep crisis, as they are working together with a high loss while needing modernisation and most likely reorganisation. In addition, we believe that the implementation of the said Directives must be implemented in such a way that we do not make the operations and competitiveness of the Slovenian Railways worse or worse. The reorganisation of Slovenian railways was held years ago even a referendum, which reportedly was the only one in which the Slovenian government ever won or the then Transport Minister Jakob Presečnik received confirmation at a referendum on the correctness of the law or approach to solving the problem. However, it is necessary to look at the resolution of such important infrastructure, and not least thousands and more of the workers on the current-eye railways, and to stand on the basis of the current situation and vision of what railways should become and how Slovenian railways should be developed, which should take over the future bulk of freight transport from the port of Koper. In doing so, we do not see any problem in transferring the charging of charges from the Slovenian Railways, the Company, to the Public Railway Agency, as the Agency will also take over the personnel who have done so so far, so they are qualified for this additional task. It is essential that the use is still intended to cover the costs of maintaining public rail infrastructure. It seems more important to us in this law that we should think about assigning routes to the protection of the domestic carrier, since we should not be broadcasting the most profitable parts of the routes or transports to foreigners. In addition to restrictions on the exit of passengers and the charging of charges where no restriction is possible, further measures should also be sought by prescribing additional security measures and restrictions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the safety of passengers and the competence of responsible personnel is most important in rail transport. It is therefore important who will carry out the training, completion and verification procedures for railway workers and who will carry out the safety inspections as an independent body, as it is not right for other operators to decide, when obtaining the safety certificate, on their own, on freight security and transport safety through our country. In our opinion, the law must not allow for unfair greater competition for foreign operators, but vice versa. We are also asked how independent the transport safety review body put by the Ministry is, or who and what to be independent of, is. Of course, we agree that in the manner laid down in Directive 2007/58 of the European Council, like all members of the European Union, as of 1 January 2010, we must open up the market for train routes intended for international passenger transport to all railway undertakings registered in the European Union that meet the conditions in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law on some of these concerns. In order to comply with the Directives, we also support the reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Miran Jerič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u96	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act is one of those proposals that we consider less interesting or, if you want, less receptive to the implementation of European Union directives. Most of the time, such an assessment is unfair and, in the case of the law in question, especially as it relates to the rail subsystem, to the transport subsystem, which will still have to become the most important part of the transport system in Slovenia. Since my colleagues will already summarise the content of the bill in the presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups, we would like to highlight in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia the further liberalisation of the railway activity, which is also the subject of a proposal for a law. At the beginning of the following year, the market for train routes intended for international passenger transport is also opening. The access to rail infrastructure for the provision of goods has already been released through the previous package of directives. It's all good and it's all good. As a rule, we implement the Directives in our legal system in a timely manner and the expected problems arise in the implementation of these provisions. Unfortunately, our rail subsystem is not technological, not business, not organisational and not human resources, which we can see again in these days is not equivalent to the most developed rail systems within the European Union. The reference framework for the further legal regulation of this area is, of course, the most developed railways, and not the systems that have been lagging behind the most developed for decades in their development. And, unfortunately, this includes the Slovenian rail system. Good villas left the railway in Slovenia soon after the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, which brought the railway to our places in 1846. Although the railway was also the subject of lively political conflicts, unsuccessful or incomplete rehabilitations and reorganisations after Slovenia's independence, we must all acknowledge that it was and remains, above all, the pastor of every transport policy holder. The current global economic crisis has mainly exposed all the weaknesses of Slovenian railways, but it is not the only reason for the poor situation of both Slovenian railways and, of course, railway infrastructures. In such circumstances, there will therefore be further liberalisation of rail activities. As in the LDS, we do not believe that the liberalisation of access to rail infrastructure for the provision of goods transport is in itself the fault of moving the most profitable goods from Slovenian railways to a foreign operator, nor do we believe that liberalisation of international passenger transport will in itself harm Slovenian railways. That is why, of course, he does not oppose her. Nor do we oppose the transfer of certain specific activities from Slovenian railways to the public railway agency, as foreseen by the proposal for a law. Slovenian railways will not save the management of some for the operator of non-typical activities, and we attach it to those who claim that the proposed solution will better ensure non-discriminatory treatment of all users of Slovenian railway infrastructure. Therefore, in the LDS, we will not support the proposed amendments of the opposition on this subject. It is in the national interest in particular to update the railway infrastructure as much as possible and at the same time to transform Slovenian railways into modern, according to the geographical position of Slovenia, the leading regional operator, who will carry out comprehensive transport activities. The way to this goal is difficult and painful. This way, implementation of directives in this area should primarily encourage us. The EU Directives are not part of the problem. We are primarily part of the problem by our perception of the role of railways in a modern post-industrial society in the face of climate change and the global economic crisis. That is why we will support the bill in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miroslav Klun.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u98	Dear Mr. Vice President! Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! With effect from 1 January 2010, the new railway law opens up the market for international passenger transport trains, protects the conflict of interest that could arise from the opening of the market, defines the conditions for concluding framework contracts for infrastructure capacity for a multi-annual period and complements the tasks of the regulatory authority. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the amendment to the law is necessary because the deadline for implementing Directive 2007/58/EC and Directive 2007/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council is 4 July 2009. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that the task of the Railway Agency is the allocation of train paths and the allocation of safety certificates. This amendment of the law eliminates, inter alia, discrimination against all users of the Slovenian rail system, since there is a reasonable doubt that the charging of roadside charges will not be brought to an independent body, and that will not be charged to certain operators. At the same time, we stress that the railway agency is dealing with what has been the current situation received by the Government at the time of taking over this mandate. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act as it provides legal and organisational changes in line with European legislation and international guidelines and standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will move the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rail Transport Act. Why should we object? It is simply said that at this time of economic and financial crisis, the Government does not follow those segments of the operation of the rail system, where it should take priority and what the common coalition agreement or coalition agreement commits all coalition partners to. The emphasis on the changes to the law that are before us today is not based on priorities, nor is it surprising that the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways himself, who offered his irrevocable derogation on 7 July this year, probably did not agree with the content of the proposed amendments and with the priorities that the Government should address. It is true that the competent Minister of Transport has often said that he will be more than the Minister of Roads or other transport infrastructure, in particular the Minister of Railways. We welcomed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we were confident that, in accordance with all the necessary investments in public rail infrastructure, the current government will continue. The legacy of the former government has been more than good because in the past four years, under the leadership of the government of Janez Janša, the most public funds were actually provided in public railway infrastructure. If we looked at the budget rebalancing now, but that's not the topic, we'd find that the government doesn't follow what they're supposed to. What needs to be highlighted in the proposed amendments is, of course, a fact that we cannot pass through when we look at and identify certain directives that need to be implemented into the content of the law. However, we can also interpret such a directive in our own way if we are not consistent. What's actually going to happen to 1. 1. 2010 will the passenger transport carrier also enter public railway infrastructure? This isn't exactly where it's supposed to be. The question is, are we going after one? 1. 2010 was able to find that we are discriminatory, because all potential carriers for the transport of passengers will meet the conditions and want to participate actively. And what will happen if these carriers, members of the European Community, meet all the conditions and we give: No, not because the Slovenian Railways will do so. This will also create a conflict of interest because the state provides for the subsidisation of rail public passenger transport. What's gonna happen after 1. 1. 2010 is, of course, a matter that we can really guess about. As far as the substance of this proposal is concerned, it is, in fact, Article 12. The most obvious intervention in the operation of the Slovenian Railways stems from the content of Article 12, which states that the Agency assumes the determination and charging of the utility and thus has a grave impact on the function of the Infrastructure Manager. I remember something like that before, the experiments were. Realisation did not occur, as it turned out that due to the functioning and integration of the technical, technological process on the railway, this was simply not possible. In fact, Article 12 brings us back to the period before 2004, when they found that, for objective and subjective reasons, this could not be achieved. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that these proposed changes are not good, so we will oppose the content of this and, of course, we will support the amendments we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Damjan Perne will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u102	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr We have before us the amendment to the Rail Transport Act, whose main objective is to implement, in particular, the timely implementation of directives adopted at European level into the rule of law of our country. The main solutions to the proposal of the law, as presented by the Government, have already been heard from some of them, but if we do so again: the opening of the road market for international passenger transport, the protection of conflicts of interest which, with the opening of the market, could arise in the transport of passengers in internal and cross-border regional rail transport provided by the State as public goods with a compulsory economic service, the definition of conditions for the conclusion of framework contracts for infrastructure capacity for more than a year, longer than the validity of the timetable, which is of course important for ensuring rail transport for potential financial investments in more permanent installations in the Republic of Slovenia, the assignment of tasks to the regulatory authority in the context of monitoring competition on the train market and the final granting of authorisations to the security authority in the field of enforcement of railway workers, in relation to entities training railway workers and the control of infrastructure issued in the public infrastructure area. Of course, some of the uncertainties and inconsistencies of the law have also been demonstrated in practice during the implementation of the law. Therefore, the proposal for amendments also eliminates such gaps. In this context, it is mainly about the amendments relating to transport safety and, of course, they are absolutely necessary from this point of view. Regardless of the current clairvoyant state of the Slovenian Railways, we are really convinced in the Group that the novelty of the law, although not all the anomalies are eliminated, is absolutely necessary. We hope, however, that this mandate will begin with the necessary reconstruction of both railway infrastructure and the functioning of Slovenian railways, which are currently a cancer in the Slovenian part of the economy and the public service. For this reason, in the Group of Members, we will be very intensive in monitoring the functioning of the Ministry of Field Affairs and will support, in a reasoned manner, all those solutions that will, in accordance with European Union legislation, help to heal this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the proposal of the amendments tabled of 13. Seven. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Verlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Honourable Director of the Directorate, colleagues and colleagues! In order to explain the content of the amendment, however, allow me to explain at the outset, because it is still a matter of technical law and technical laws are usually a little less interesting and therefore probably also such a high presence in this National Assembly right now. However, regardless of this law, this new law will reach into the Slovenian rail system. I would like to point out once again the difference or the misunderstanding that often occurs in the public and the professional as well as the layman between us, that we actually mix the Slovenian Railways and the Slovenian Railway System with one another. The new law before us today, in addition to implementation and compliance with the legal order, interferes with the Slovenian rail system and Slovenian railways are only part of the Slovenian rail system. By amending the Rail Transport Act, the Slovenian rail system was defined and fully aligned with the European acquis. Once again, I am fully in line with the European acquis. Finally, we have everything you want, players in the Slovenian rail system, with specific tasks, competences, delimitations, in accordance with the European legal order. Thus, Slovenian railways under this law are the controller of public railway infrastructure, which means that the legislator has given them jurisdiction over railway infrastructure not owned by Slovenian railways, but owned by the country they manage and maintain. Why? Because they have a workforce for this because they are deployed throughout Slovenia and because they know it and it is right to carry out this task. There are people who know and control this, so they've got the manager's job. At the same time, Slovenian railways are also a carrier, which is nothing wrong, as they have to carry out the function of driving trains both in freight and in passenger transport. However, in order to avoid conflict because they are united in one legal person: as an operator and carrier, their operations must be transparent and their balance of accounts separated, in accordance with European directives. However, since we have allowed free access to railway infrastructure through the introduction of the European acquis on the Slovenian Railways, we must therefore provide it. That is why we have changed the destination of the Railway Agency, the Railway Agency is today the guardian of free access to railway infrastructure, as it allocates routes, determines the use and is also a security authority. It has all those functions that any foreign carrier that appears or any domestic other than Slovenian Railways has guaranteed that route. If he is not satisfied, he may appeal to the following body, which is in the composition of the Ministry of Transport. This is the regulatory authority which decides on a second stage. In addition, we have an investigative body, which is an authority, as in aviation, which identifies, in the event of possible incidents on the railway, the reasons why a particular traffic accident occurred. In order to do so, all of us, including the substantive reasons, because from a European perspective, Slovenian railways are still so small that when we have the controller and the carrier together, we have all the necessary synergies. And this is not just an invention of Slovenian railways, something similar to that of other rail systems that have been integrated, except those that are bad cases, as it was in England. This introduction, I think, was needed because I would like to explain further why we tabled this amendment. We have not tabled these amendments in order to oppose or oppose the introduction of implementation into the European legal order. No, that's got to be it. But as always in the transposition of directives into Slovenian legislation, we need to be precise. If we look at the now completed bill to read 15d. Article 1, point 1, of the supplementary proposal states: "For the use of public rail infrastructure, the carrier shall pay the cost. The use is intended to cover the costs of maintaining public railway infrastructure." All right, but in the first sentence, colleagues and colleagues, we just wrote, so the proposal is that for the use of public rail infrastructure, the carrier pays the cost. Who? Just that he's paying. Of course he's paying for it, but who should he pay for it to? This does not appear to be the case in this supplementary proposal. Of course, you have to tell him who he's paying. We therefore added this word: "For the use of public rail infrastructure, the carrier pays the operator a fee". This is our amendment, this word, to the controller, which defines who will be the one to follow the Slovenian tracks. But one more thing. All of you who have presented your views, including the Government's representative, have said that we are implementing the European acquis. Good, because I am now reminding you that what we are proposing is nothing more than a prescription or a meaningful summary of the first paragraph of Article 4 of Directive 2001/14. What's he saying? Here, I quote: "Member States shall draw up a framework for charging benefits, taking into account the independence of management as provided for in Article 4 of Directive 91/440. In the first paragraph of Article 7, the Principles on the charging of charges, however, reads: "Uses for the use of railway infrastructure shall be paid to the infrastructure manager, which shall be used to finance their activities." And that's all. So our amendment says, as you wrote down, the word "manager" is missing, and you just didn't get it. Why not, of course, we will discuss this with the following amendments, let me just say: because you want to transfer the payment of the utility to the public agency. You can't! You can't. The directive forbids you. Colleagues and colleagues, the law you will adopt will run counter to the European directives on the implementation of the rail acquis. Just so we're clear, let me do it again. Your complementary proposal says: "The carrier pays a fee for the use of public rail infrastructure." You didn't write to anyone. We added the word "manager." Why? Since we have looked at Article 7 of Directive 2001/14, the first paragraph, which states: 'The use of railway infrastructure is paid to the infrastructure manager used to finance their activities'. Because, of course, it's a dedicated resource. This is the dedicated resource to which the public railway infrastructure manager is entitled. Therefore, the operator also collects it in order to direct its activities. Colleagues and colleagues, if we want to be correct and to continue to properly sum up the European acquis, then this amendment and the other amendments must be supported. When this transfer, which we are now doing, is transferred to an agency which has a completely different nature, which has completely different tasks and responsibilities than to provide and maintain public railway infrastructure, which is subject to the law and the directives, then we must do so. For when we consider further charging the utility - so now I would not have touched the other amendments substantively - then you will see that the utility is actually the dedicated income of the controller. The directive even solves the case where the operator is linked to the carrier. Even there is this exception, of course, logically written, that collecting must be a matter of the manager and not some agency. Colleagues and colleagues! Let us implement the European acquis as necessary. I propose that this fully corrected substantive amendment, coordinated, I will say, with the European Directive, also support and take into account that we get a consistent law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you. I see interest in the debate, so I'm reopening the application. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. This amendment makes sense if the operator is defined solely and strictly as one of the national operators. So far, we've got one. But I see this thing differently, my esteemed colleague, and without wanting to derail here, the ministry can appoint someone else's manager. We have a directorate and an agency. The Agency is already concerned with the issue of safety certificates, regulation of technical standards, coordination and regulation of the requirements to be met by the operator in order to reach our infrastructure area at all. I don't see anything wrong with this context if it also prescribes the use. I'd like to draw your attention to something else. Of course, the use must not be more expensive than it is for a national operator. It must be the same, because we must follow the principle of equality here. I believe that if we look at it so that the national operator can drive cheaper, then we will also do ourselves a bad job, because we will not be able to charge the other operators the same price or only be able to do the same. This is how I understand the EU Directive, which prescribes equality within the Eurotransit routes. But I'd like to point out something else. This amendment makes sense if we are saying that the only beneficiary is to collect this national operator. These are Slovenian railways. However, when we talk about this, we have made a directive and an agency, or one is slightly less active, the other works only minimally, then we can also talk about an authorised independent body set up by the Ministry or Government. In this case, we have two, as has already been said, one is supposed to take care of the project and the other is intended to provide technical standards and to implement or prescribe technical standards in the issue of safety certificates. It's an agency. For me, this is very clear, and I wouldn't be working here in essence as a great dilemma. However, it is true that there is something to be said about damage on the road when it happens. The Minister, we know, probably Members and Members do not know if an emergency occurs, the country applying the damage claim is entitled to a proportionate proportion of the damage per kilometer of the route by which the cargo is transported. All other countries, we are a transit country, also taking over part of the cost. Look, we can quickly get here because the longest part of the route from the port of Koper to the eastern part of Europe or Hungary is going right on our roadway. If anything happens, we hide almost 90% of the damage ourselves. I would like to draw attention to this particularly because we have done one big stupid thing that we need to fix. I have already talked about this before about allowing "foreign" operators, in connotations to foreign operators, other operators which are equivalent to our nationals, as we have already established, to assess for themselves the technical integrity, the security of the cargo, the identification of modes of transport, the choice of means of driving and so on. This can't happen. This is what I would ask of you, and I have assured the Secretary of State that we will correct this mistake. This can only be decided by our control body and, of course, we must take care of the safety and order of transport here. I would not like to recall what has already happened on Slovenian railways. Let me just remind you of the last savage disaster that claimed dozens of dead. In the fact that we have very neglected infrastructure, this can happen quickly if we consider that anyone who wants to transport goods on the railway is looking at the fact that he will save as much as possible on freight insurance. I've said before that the maximum cost is the cost of work, and immediately thereafter the cost of insurance in the transport unit. You know that better than I do. The fact is, there will be a lot of things going on here if this is allowed and this practice continues. It also bothers me if I can touch myself a little bit wider to allow other operators who come with some ease to our market to also move the cargo, to move it in such a way that they simply take it away from us. We have ten profitable cargoes in the cargo transport segment. They are no longer available on the Slovenian RCA railways. I want the RCA to come and the Italians to come, and the other operators to come. As many as possible, it'll be better for us. But they should also bring the cargo to Luca Koper and then transport it to the destinations where they imagined it. Have them bring the product with them. This cannot be the subject of the insuring of work within already concluded contracts that guarantee 9 000 people's heads on Slovenian railways instant survival. We, if we give two more loads to the Austrians, believe you'll have a problem tomorrow providing wages for this 9-thousand head crowd. Because it's just not gonna work. I see a bigger problem here. The first is to ensure the safety and orderliness of rail transport, while the second is to ensure that all of these potential partners, who will come to us as operators within the fifth and tenth trans-European corridor, make it clear and loud, that they will also provide such security guards that they will be legitimate, that they will be European, that they will be welcome if they also provide a destination of interpretation in the port of Koper and bring with them products. That's the only thing that makes sense. Otherwise, we compromised our own national interests. And if that happens, then I'll be the first one to ask the Minister to step down. I'll be the first one to ask for an interpellation against him. And believe me, we are on the right track to do this, in fact tomorrow, to find out that Slovenian railways in the freight segment are not doing any more work because everyone else is doing it. Thus, the technical-training body, the TVD service must take responsibility for the control of other operators, must be an independent body, is an independent service, an independent service and can and can do it. And we must commercially protect those products that present the core of the product in Slovenian railways today and guarantee payment of wages in some way. We know that freight traffic works with positive effects more or less at all times, but not for two years now. Why, it is also the next statement that I will now try to present here as a challenge to the Minister. Dear Minister, if we want to open these new transit routes, then we must also provide administrative and, in particular, technical conditions for the operation of transport. Today we have infrastructure in a catastrophically poor state. On the one hand in Kočev we are building new rail sections which we will not need at all against Kočevska in the D-4 variant, it is said, for 22.5 tonnes of basic pressure, on the highway from the Wall Bridge to Maribor, and we do not have this technical condition. For the locomotives that we bought with difficulty, we commissioned the Slovenian people and there is no driving. This makes trains in non-commercial composition and also the competitiveness of Slovenian railways smaller, because we cannot drive trains as we could. Our cargo also flows to the Italian side through Austria to Hungary. We both know that. There's something else I'd like to say. We have a chance, and I don't know why we shouldn't take it. For the past two years, we have received large guarantee guarantees for the rental of loans in the National Assembly. Why, for God's sake, should we not approach a comprehensive rehabilitation of the rail infrastructure system? Today, in times of crisis, this would even be welcome because we could hire a large number of people, in construction and so on. Is it waiting for a company that started yesterday to buy a railway construction company and come as the main contractor? Is it GH Holding or what? Are they waiting for all that they still lack? Is that Mr. Miklavčič and the others? I would not want this story to get carried away at the expense of national interest and once again give one another the opportunity to make a fortune on this account. Where are the projects? The directorate has been established for two years and there is only an office and a ficus. We don't have an interoperable project to do it. It's not your fault, I believe, because there's a great responsibility on the previous government, you've been given a swollen condition. But, Mr. Secretary, I would also expect the agency not to do such stupid things that it doesn't issue such security certificates. We have also warned the previous Government that corruption, clientism and bribery are also involved. Even one worker was fired by Slovenian railways for betraying a business secret. And interestingly, this employee is working on RCA today. You know, that's the truth. The issue of such business secrets, for example, to the Germans, that we allowed under the previous government even that "due diligence" was carried out with care at the seat of the Slovenian Railways. They were there for a month or two, reviewing the business documents. Well, please, let's go to D.B., and we'll have a little review of the business documents there! You can't do that, I don't know if it's possible, but probably not. I want the national interest of Slovenian railways to be protected. And this is your duty. I believe you will. I have assurances from the committee, I will be careful that this will also happen and that we take into account the maximum factors of rail safety and regulation, especially because our rail infrastructure is in desperate condition. Secondly, I expect the money we actually have secured to be released in the autumn of this year and to begin with the implementation of the projects. Not in 2010, 2011, 2012, immediately. I will not be convinced in this Chamber that we cannot provide a normal roadway, a replacement of signal security systems, visual signals with modern electronics, no one will convince me that we cannot replace the threshold with an appropriate track structure and ensure a normal axle load, today and now with our knowledge, with our construction machinery, with our builders. I don't know why this has to wait forever. We've been waiting five years. But I believe it takes a little more will, knowledge and time for new projects, such as Koper - Divac, the second track. And the only smart thing is that now we're going to that viable option, that we're not actually going to put this thing on hold forever, and at the same time we're missing a great opportunity. Another thing I'd like to say is this. If we want good for the railways and if we want good for the Slovenian roads as well, then we need to make a serious decision as soon as possible, this is necessary to shift the heavy transit cargo and, above all, the ecologically disputed cargo to the railways. We'll clear the freeway with this. I've been a little out of context, but these are things that need to be said on such occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to be within the framework of the proposed amendment to Article 6, although it is necessary to clarify that Article 6 contains exactly five or six sub-sections from a. to e. What we have put an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party refers to Article 15d, where we have defined and tried to explain what it is actually about. One is the carrier and the other is the operator. Here, colleague Verlič is very visual and very understanding to explain where the dilemma is, in fact, when we come from the added word of the administrators. It must be explained that in the history of railways, many things have been learned. And it would probably also be possible to learn something from the English rail system, which in the history of railways who have made a strategic mistake in the history of rail carriers, and have eliminated it or started to do so only when their railways began to fall too often into many accidents with enormous material and other consequences. My friend Lucky Friend spoke in this direction, too. You know, it's very important that we're here in the clear and clear. If we compared this system to Darsa's system, we could get a very visual image. Would it be right for a toll to collect some x company, not Dars himself? Why does Dars need this money? To invest it in Western annuities and to invest in the maintenance of road infrastructure. There is nothing else in the rail system. And if in today's situation we really follow that we want to implement something that would be good, which would be rational, I'll tell you from this place that it's not that. I am confident that the Minister, who may today, at the suggestion of his closest colleagues and colleagues, accept this fact that it is necessary to change, will find out after a while, and will tell these advisers that they no longer enjoy his trust. This is a serious matter, and here we have to seriously think about it, and we are trying to do something really good in the Slovenian Democratic Party that someone under the terms would not have a headache when it comes into force. It's not simple things. It doesn't hold up a fact, specifically at 15d. Article that some say and substantiate that this is to comply with the Directive. Here it is necessary to clarify clearly and loudly that, in the previous mandate, we have aligned the set of rail legislation with the European directives. And there is no need for us to go now, as I said in my presentation of our Group's opinion that we are going back in essence a few years ago. This is not good and should not be allowed especially by those who know the rail system very well. I am not saying this in my mind, but in this technical part, the functioning of the technological part of the railways I know very well. That's why I know what that means. And that word, you know what it all means. We really suggest that if this has not already been adopted or confirmed on the Committee, you should consider at least now and try to understand that this proposal is in place to contain all the legal standards that are in line with European legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 6? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 12 and the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. Anyone who wants to discuss it should sign up. Mr. Verlich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much again. This amendment is, in fact, crucial and confusing. The confusion in this amended bill compared to the directives of the European Union which provide for this. The specific directive I have already mentioned is 2001/14. In the draft law, the second indent of Article 12 is amended by transferring the power to determine and charge the utility to the Railway Agency. The determination of the use shall be the competence of the independent authority and shall not be determined by the operator by an independent body. But charging the user is under Article 4, paragraph 2, which is the last sentence of Directive 2001/14, and I will quote: "The operator of the railway infrastructure is responsible for calculating and collecting the usage." I repeat, accounting and customer collection by the railway infrastructure manager. So now we have two legal uncertainties. We have adopted the concept of charging the bill, and the bill has not explained what charging is. The Directive, however, clearly refers to the determination, accounting and collection of supplies. Where explicitly, wherever you read it, it is stated that the collection of the utility is the exclusive competence of the public railway infrastructure manager. A fellow MP, Friend, said earlier that he didn't mind who the manager would be, that he could be anyone. You know, I would just like to add so much to the fact that in this law, the drafter of the law of the public railway infrastructure manager has not changed. Public railway infrastructure managers are still Slovenian railways. Therefore, they have jurisdiction to collect supplies, legal jurisdiction. Because if I were to follow this purpose, but I am sure that I know your views, you were not to break down the Slovenian railways, you were for unification, so I do not believe that you are to appoint another public railway infrastructure manager. Here, we have transferred one of the powers incompatible with the directives to the Public Railway Agency. I listened attentively to the position of the Group of Social Democrats, where I actually understood what fear was. He is afraid that we do not trust the controller of Slovenian railways. It was said that if I understood correctly, it could happen that the controller would discriminate against the use. For God's sake, I don't believe that the director of the Slovenian Railways would hope to charge a foreigner so, otherwise, when he has a supervisory board over him, when he has a congregation, the government, and not least, every thing is next in the National Assembly. We are then dealing with something else at the moment, not with implementation, of European directives that we obviously do not want to implement as it says. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us read the directive carefully, and then let us respect this exactly. Determination of use is the responsibility of the agency, as it is an independent body, but collecting is a matter of the operator. In our amendment, if I simplify it in substance, of course, we delete this part of the charge because we have to delete it because it is the responsibility of the controller. And the controller in our case are Slovenian Railways. But when someone, and obviously - I don't know, here for the first time I heard it today in this hall, I don't know, it will probably come soon as the next move of breaking up the Slovenian railways. This is probably the great desire of this coalition to divide it as soon as possible and follow all those bad paths: instead of having synergies, we will have something else that we wanted, and that is not necessary. Today, we are obviously taking the first step in this complementary proposal, which is the opposite. I trust that you will understand today that these are the substantive amendments that follow Directive 2001/14 throughout the content. And if not the National Assembly, this will be determined by an appropriate service that will notify this complementary proposal on the European Commission. So, please, let's accept these amendments and leave the solution the way it is. If you want to change it, if you want an interest like your friend Friend said that he doesn't mind being any controller, then you have to write it in law. Then the existing 27.c Article, which discusses the tasks of the activity and organisation of the Slovenian Railways, should be amended and said, Slovenian Railways are no longer the controller. Pika! This task will be carried out - by whom? This will be determined by the coalition, the government has proposed. But still, look, you're still gonna need an agency, because you still need a security authority that needs to be independent of the operator and the carriers. So we're not getting anything. We will not gain anything, but only what begins in the last one - for this I think it is a key amendment and a key proposal - but here begins the marketing of Slovenian railways. There, and in the next amendment, this begins, which is why I think that people on Slovenian railways need to be scared slowly. But since this is a content proposal in the next amendment, then I'll apply for the word. Now, I think that when the jurisdiction of charging is not explained by the notion of charging, what is it - the directive and the existing law speak well of determining the use, which must be the exclusive competence of an independent body, this is the agency. It is clear that the use cannot be determined by the controller on his own and must be determined by an independent body. However, collection under the directive has remained the responsibility of the controller in this law, in this complementary proposal, unchanged - Slovenian Railways. If he were another operator, we should define him. But, of course, this is, you know, the implementation of directives, as we understand it, a little bit of our own, and one step at a time. But we definitely started the first step of breaking it down. And we don't know what charging is. The applicant did not explain the concept of charging. If it was meant to charge all the criteria for determining the use of infrastructure from the state of the infrastructure - what it says below. Okay, here we agree, then there is no controller, the operator has the task of collecting and using it for its own activity, which is to maintain public rail infrastructure. This is for the purposes of the directive. Not that it is lost somewhere in the integrated budget, but that it is immediately intended for the management, maintenance of public rail infrastructure, only that is the purpose of use. But if someone is afraid that Slovenian railways are doing something so discriminating that they happen to charge someone more, someone less - yes, that's what other authorities are for, and if you know that something like this is happening, you have to trigger all these levers immediately because these levers are. I therefore propose that we also support this substantive amendment, as this brings us into the complementary draft order. However, if, of course, there is a desire to break down Slovenian railways, to separate infrastructure, to appoint a new public railway infrastructure manager, then that will be the time. Now we are doing something that is not in line with European directives, and we note that if not before, we will be reminded of this in the relevant services on the Commission where we will notify it. I therefore propose that this substantive amendment, in particular the substantive amendment, be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u111	Mr. Friend has reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I can only agree with Mr Verlic in this context when he says that it is the responsibility to collect the goods on the website of the Slovenian Railways, indeed, that is clearly true. But I'm not worried about that. The government will take care of it if it wants to determine otherwise with another supplement to another act if it wants to be consistent and legal. There's something else I'd like to point out. Who are we going to use for the technical condition we're offering him? Ladies and gentlemen, on Slovenian railways freight is transported in freight traffic from 35 kilometres per hour, 10 years ago there were better conditions. That's right, 35 kilometers an hour is a commercial speed. Because it is not invested in railway infrastructure, we have on the day prescribed new and new slow rides, which are in the form of a dispatch or telegram or emergency mail given to the driver’s driving task. It is. And if certain uses, even if they are minimal, no one will agree to pay for it. And one more thing, the Secretary of State stayed here. I am afraid that there will be more delayed, criminal and I do not know what penalties to pay, because we will not be able to meet the conditions, because we will not be able to guarantee accuracy, because we will not be able to ensure the proper commercial composition of trains, of course. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] But here I fear that the costs will pass to the one who will collect. [[...]] And I'm afraid there'll be more costs to pay than payments will be in total. That's my fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you. I can still see the deadlines for the debate on Article 12. Please sign in. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Well, in the previous mandate, when the Rail Transport Act was amended in a way that we redesigned the single system of operation of the Slovenian Railways, we have seriously warned that this system is like but extremely inefficient and this also shows all the time in practice, where we can find that we have far more unresolved problems right within ensuring the normal functioning of the Slovenian Railways as a system as a carrier, both passenger transport and of course freight. We have a great deal of problems in maintaining and implementing investments. And, of course, she added her own directive, which also commands that we also release access to foreign operators on our tracks to manage not only freight traffic but also passenger traffic. And this is a new situation that is particularly exposed at the very moment when we are actually changing the functioning of the Slovenian Railways in this law or taking into account in the Rail Transport Act, the fact that the directive imposes on us that we must allow other operators to come to our tracks. And it would be very unusual if, of course, our operator were the one who would directly charge other operators the utility for these tracks. While the fact is that this utility is far from what it should actually be if you want to update and properly maintain rail tracks from this usage, but precisely because our operator is in such poor condition, these uses are extremely small, low and such low-cost operators will also pay. By closing our eyes on the state of the Slovenian railways, we are now also subsidising foreign operators in a way that will pay very low usage of Slovenian railway infrastructure. And this is what puts us in a worse position from step to step, and I think it is time that we start to think realistically about where the biggest problems are, why Slovenian railways do not achieve better results than they could be given the strategic position of Slovenia. This situation is not negligible, it is extremely good, it is suitable. It is true that our country does not know how big and that these miles across Slovenia are not exactly I don't know how much to charge them as much as, say, Germany, Austria or other major countries, but still. However, traffic density is one that could allow us to collect more resources for these uses, especially for other operators, especially because of the availability of other operators. The fact is that we need to ask ourselves whether there is really no spillover of resources from public services to market services within the system of Slovenian Railways and, of course, whether or not we will be given any additional reminder that we really need to drive these things in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. And that's the question when we never actually get a clear answer about what's going on inside Slovenian railways. Once the result is very critical, the second is slightly less critical. For the third time, it is once again somewhat adapted to some of the situations that have tried to show off according to the current situation, I would say, political will and interest, and all of this actually dictates the direction that we are trying to separate some of the things that need to be separated. I agree that this instant manager of Slovenian tracks are Slovenian railways. However, whether this solution is clean enough and appropriate to keep it, a very large question is asked. And it would be strange if our Slovenian Railways, our operator, made a contract on how he would either charge or account for the utility. I don't think there's much difference here, especially in the amount, but not in the relationship. However, it is true that, at some point, it is likely that this system of charging or charging can also be used to prevent competition in a particular business. And it is precisely this exclusion of competition that is the discriminating one, which the Directorate certainly also makes very clear that it must not be allowed. The new organisation raises a number of questions, a number of uncertainties and better to start solving them today, not tomorrow, because it will also make it much easier for us to make it even more clear how to remedy this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. At least the justification for the amendment proposed by the SDS under Article 12 would be read and where the answers would be clear that Directive 2001/14 is already being taken into account is already being implemented. And there is no need and no reason to take that back as a starting point and to take that as a justification for the amendments to this Article. The system of Slovenian Railways should be taken, at least in the segment we are talking about, between the carrier, the controller, precisely and definitively. In no case does our amendment refer to what the predecessor said would be against public rail infrastructure opening up to all those who meet technical, technological and other conditions. Far from it. The public rail infrastructure market is open under certain conditions. With this proposal, we do not wish to limit or even prevent this. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the amendment to the law relating to transfer of collection is charging. I'm stressing, charging. For these concepts must be clearly defined. We know, I don't know if anyone would think that I'm teaching someone, but it's important to define clearly what it means to charge, to calculate, to calculate, to calculate. These are very important concepts and the directive clearly states what this means, and we are trying to justify what is right or wrong. And once again, once again, with the proposed amendment to Article 12, we wanted to give precise reasons in the very explanation why we are proposing an amendment or a supplement, or to define precisely this dictatorship, which is based on Article 7 of the Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I spoke again because there is actually another issue in the amended proposal for a law. In this way, I think I have explained more than enough that this transfer of the charge to the Agency is inconsistent with the Directive. In the last paragraph, however, the Agency shall, in addition to charging, be entitled to charge, it shall also exercise control over the realisation of the payment of the utility. In short, the agency will be charging now, which means, if I understand correctly, that under this you are imagining the collection of supplies. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answer, so we don't know what it is. But at the same time, when I realized that it was a big problem that there was a lack of confidence in the current controller, the Slovenian Railways, in the collection of the supplies, the agency also took control in its jurisdiction. In short, the agency will - what's it called? An authority in one person: for the collection of supplies, the determination and the charging of control over what it will do will do what it will do. In the existing law, the regulatory authority in the Ministry has control over this. So, at least what it is, we should probably at least leave this payment control to the ministry, not just one body for itself. Of course, I did not get an answer to what this notion is charging, how it will be in purely terminological terms in relation to the directive, what it means, and what I think is that after this discussion it is already becoming clear that the manager of the Slovenian Railway, in accordance with Directive 2001/14, and the accounting and collection of the utility is carried out by the railway infrastructure manager, and let us go exercise such or otherwise, create some intermediate article up to that final step that you probably did not hope to bring to the National Assembly this moment. This is completely amended by the Rail Transport Act, by dividing and breaking down Slovenian railways. This is some intermediate phase, some intermediate step until then - because before they notify this in Brussels they will find that it is not compatible and you will come with that law with a definitive option. We're sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you. Dear Members, Members! Dr. Peter Verlich says he knows what we want. And I'm gonna ask if we leave it the way it is? Should we leave it the way it is now? We put $100 million a year in the railroads, and the railroads are sinking! We haven't set up this system that is now. I just want to say a few words about the utility. 8.8 billion is thought to invest in the next few years, this is until 2023 in the Slovenian Railways. We have invested 4 billion and a half in the roads and we owe this country by 2050 with the payment of loans. From tolls we choose a few more than 200 million annually, and this is practically not enough today for what the concession fee is intended for on roads, that is to say, for maintenance and for payment of outstanding liabilities. 4.5 billion for roads, and the highway crossing is not over yet, and the development axes are waiting for us! After 200 million per year, we choose on the roads, and now we have 8.8 billion investments in rail infrastructure, and last year we collected 9 million supplies. Now I wonder what's not clear here. It is not clear that as this moment is set, of course, things will not work out. Just like this moment's system is set, the thing won't go, and there's no malicious desires behind it, as insinuated. But the wish is that if we invest 4.5 billion in the road and we owe the country by 2050 and barely with the tolls that we collect over 200 million a year, we cannot expect to invest 8.8 billion at today's prices in the rail infrastructure and collect 9 million per year in such a system. I don't understand. If anyone else understands, I will be happy to listen if they can help me with a solution. The utility will go to the manager, but taking into account our accounting standards and the warnings of the European Union that an account must be issued outside our company, the system is as proposed by the Government. And why have we yet to approach the reconstruction of rail infrastructure? Yes, in order to restore something, you must have a building permit. You must have a building permit. Or that you're building something. These building permits are not available. We have prepared a huge acceleration so far, we will make up for those missed moments, if everything is lucky, we will start building a second track next year between Koper and the Fan. But one more page, if you don't mind, I'd like to say in this room today. This is that the government will produce clear figures by the end of the year, what these large investments in rail infrastructure mean. I believe that transport and logistics are the strategic advantage of the Republic of Slovenia. But we'd like to quantify my claim. When we have the numbers, we will come before the National Assembly and then there will be a big decision before this National Assembly: whether we go this way or not. Because these are such large deposits that it would be entirely irresponsible of these generations to owe two or three next generations for such large sums. We're already with the roads. I'm not saying it's not worth doing right now, but you have to have a clean bill. You need to pour yourself some clean wine and say okay, there's enough reason to invest so much money in rail infrastructure. However, if there are not enough reasons, it is necessary to consider the different development opportunities of the Republic of Slovenia. My debate is so broad on purpose, as the debate of Members was so wide. I am convinced that if we leave things the way they are now, with such organisation, with such a system, with such a thought that, despite the fact that this moment in the law says that what is not a boat, which is a locomotive, train and infrastructure, cannot sink that it is particularly good in the future. I have a different wish, so we'll make proposals for the National Assembly. The proposals will be sincere and will be such as to be understood. There's no need for anyone to deal with what we want and what's going on in our heads. You will see the numbers, and then you will decide in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The representative of the Government, Mr Minister, has responded to the debate, possibly to the amendment to article 12 of the law. I have asked in my debate, and I do not believe that I have discussed it in a broad way, but I have discussed the content of the article which is open and based on the specific articles of the directive, and the ambiguities that arise in this proposed article to the complementary proposal of the law. I asked clearly that I do not have an answer to what this means to charge in terms of terminology in a directive that talks about the collection and accounting of the use. I did not get an answer as to why now the charge, which is not explained, is passed on to the agency when it is terminology and when the content of this task is in line with the controller's directive. I would suggest that, in addition to all these general debates on all the millions of euros that we will certainly discuss in the National Assembly and where else to leave it and, however, Mr President, ask the government representative to try to answer my substantive question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you. Here's where every word comes in when he thinks it's good to talk. That's not how I'm gonna do it, and I can't ask the government's representative, the minister, to speak. I ask, does anyone else want to discuss Article 12 and the amendment to this Article? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 16. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, in fact, Article 16 solved the whole thing. Here it starts with what people or people are most sensitive to. In the SDS Group, we have proposed deleting the article, although we have been taught on the Committee by the Legal and Legislative Service that things are not harmonised, but nevertheless our proposal has one fundamental message. Do not do this, because when this law enters into force and railways begin to implement or implement Article 16, problems will actually begin. The system of Slovenian Railways is technically, technologically so complex, so connected that we have difficulty imagining that this can be done within these deadlines set out here in Article 16. That is, under number 1: the Agency shall, within six months of the entry into force of this Act, be bound by the Slovenian Railways d.o.o. take over the work and tasks of charging the user and the employees who carry out these works and tasks on Slovenian railways. He was on the Committee on Transport when we discussed this, including a representative of Slovenian Railways, who wanted to explain that things are not so uniform that things are not so simple that things are very complicated, but if it is not just about moving a certain number of railway workers, because there are 10,000 and something in the system, it will probably not be known anywhere if 10, 15 moved from Ljubljana to Maribor. I welcome Maribor to have something more, if that means something in common. However, when I look at the interest of Slovenian railways, it is far from what the railways like us in the SDS would want, which we have actually proposed that this should not happen or that the bill is not adopted. The second paragraph of Article 16 reads: "The employees referred to in the preceding paragraph are subject to a change in the employer's rights and obligations and the working relationship." determine in accordance with the provisions of the law governing working relationships. You know, if we put this system forward now and these specific people coming from a particular industry within the Slovenian Railway System, we would find that this is almost impossible. Railroaders are tied to the technological process of work, which is combined in one place, which is compatible with the very specific systems that they now have, I think only in Kolodvorski 11. What is meant by the full participation of all those who plan the so-called railway work process, is the development of a timetable that arises in internal traffic in a short period of time and in international transport in a much longer period of time. For the sake of coordination, I think up to three years, while introducing new lines up to five years. Things aren't that simple, and things aren't so uniform. Why did I say in the opening statement of the SDS Group that this is not good and that we are going back a few years before 2004? Because it was already an attempt to do so and already the people concerned were sent to train their colleagues on German railways. And when these people came back, they realized it wasn't possible. We would therefore like to justify why we are proposing deleting this article, which is not good. You'll see he's not good. And once again, perhaps the Director-General, Mr Tasic, who offered the resignation on 7 July, thought about it, I don't know. I doubt that he could have avoided this and that he did not see what the provision in this article or the amendment of this law meant. You know, if you managed to convince the Slovenian public, I'm sure you didn't convince me that the resignation of the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways is only because he couldn't decide whether the Mayor of the Municipality of Prevalje would be or would be the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways. No, no, things are deeper. Things are much deeper and the content comes from the provisions of the amendments you are proposing. These are not good and force the system of Slovenian Railways even in this Article during 2004 or back. I've already said it today, and I'll say it again, I respect you, Minister, your efforts in saying that you'll be more of a railroad minister than anything else. But now that we are implementing or if we are trying to implement these statements now, this is not happening. This is something else, as is clearly stated in the coalition agreement in point 4.2, where all government, coalition partners are committed to doing something completely different than we now see from the content of this bill you are proposing. However, I did not say that any of the things can not be rightly changed, but it is a matter of excessive change, of interference with the operation, of the technological process of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian Railways, because Slovenian railways are not only in Maribor or in Cyprus, but are distributed throughout Slovenia. That's why this system needs to be handled in a much more serious, much more coherent way with all actors, because you will see, Mr. Secretary, that they will wake up on the railroads. Because now you have actually intervened in the changes that we feel most about the railway only when we touch the individual names and surnames of the executors of a technological process and when the railways - not because of the principle and not because of tradition, but because of legitimate reasons - have proved that this is not good and that this is far from what they would have taken at the beginning, that it is a rationalisation of the system, because it is not rationalisation. This is contrary to rationalisation, so we are expanding some system to multiple cost locations. I also conclude that until recently, the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways, Mr Tasic, had said in one of his statements that he would try to cut into the system of Slovenian Railways by trying to reduce the cost of doing business. But what you're suggesting is the opposite! This does not help to rationalise the functioning of the system. Here we also encounter a fundamental problem that will happen to you as soon as you want to implement the provisions of this law when it stops in planning and drawing up timetables. Once again, the driving schedule system is actually a fundamental document, which we call the technological process of working on Slovenian railways, which consists of both internal and international transport. These train paths with people, with the executives on the Slovenian Railways, which we need to work together, to agree together, to take into account all the wishes of all those who unite this area within the European Union system, also to act in a coordinated manner, and not only in Ljubljana, that these timetables arise in different areas of some of the European Union. Of course, I could list some other points of Article 16, which is the 5 points for which our Group has proposed to delete, because, as I explained, believe me, you will run into a lot of problems, a lot of resistance, because railway workers who are thoroughly aware of the system of functioning and functioning of this system will easily prove to you that what is in force here in Article 16 can only be a theory that this is not in practice. I would really like to take a little thought into this article, a little thought, a little thought to coordinate matters and decide even when these things are agreed and harmonised within the system itself of the Slovenian Railways, especially those people who in some chain in this technological process represent an individual article in the whole chain of functioning of the so-called technological process called driving order.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you. I see another hand to discuss. Just one hand. Mr. Verlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. To what my fellow Member Branko Marinič has said, perhaps only that not only is the solution controversial from a substantive point of view and that it is actually divisive of the main purpose. If we read this article, it even says nicely: the agency takes over the work and tasks of the Slovenian Railways within six months of the entry into force of this Act, charging the utility and the employees who carry out these works and tasks on Slovenian railways. By not clarifying what it is to charge a user, whether it is to collect a utility that is the responsibility of the controller, or whether it is all together. In short, there are no such answers, so we do not know what these employees will be and who these employees are who are doing these tasks. The employees referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the law governing working relationships as a result of the change in the employer's rights and obligations. I think that's a good definition that protects employees. However, Slovenian railways are required to submit to the Ministry of Transport, within seven days of the entry into force of this Law, a list of work and tasks with the required level of education, etc., with a list of workers and all the software necessary for the implementation of the charging and production of the network timetable. If there is a basic task of Slovenian railways, by which Slovenian railways can work, because of their catechism, it is a timetable. I understand the provision of this Article in such a way that the Slovenian Railways are left without people who are technologically concerned with the implementation of the timetable. Following the entry into force of this Act, the independent authority will draw up a timetable for the operator of the Slovenian Railway. That's the first I've heard of it. I would like to know what the position of foreign operators will be with the independent authority of the Agency, which creates a timetable for Slovenian railways. I don't know what that's gonna look like. It will appear that Slovenian railways will have to get new people who will produce a timetable. And you know that driving order is footage you can't get overnight. In addition, the budget resources are exempt from the Slovenian Railway Manager and are going to the Agency. I think that through all these substantive amendments we have shown that there is a big gap between what the directives provide and what you have written in this complementary bill. The manager collects the utility and not the agency. The controller shall draw up a timetable. Under the existing law, the Agency had all the levers and all the mechanisms to control every point of the timetable if it wanted to. She had all the powers to control and control the controller. No, you can't believe it. We're going to step one, it's going to be an agency! Although this cannot be done in accordance with the directives. And in the end, respected colleagues and colleagues, 11b. The article says, still, this has not been changed, first, second, third, fourth indent - you know what the manager's job is. After this supplementary proposal, too, the collection of supplies. That's it! And we've got two nice guys picking up supplies. Slovenian railways and the Railway Agency, which cannot do so. Now tell me where these employees should go if they have to collect supplies from the manager, if they still have to go to the agency where they will be transferred. Where was the drafter of the law to make such a nonconstant text, I don't know. In short, I propose that we resolve this problem by implementing what needs to be implemented from these Directives on safety certificates. What grieves you and was the basic purpose of this law, however, let the railroad go to 100 pieces and cut them to pieces; do so if you must already prepare a new law on rail traffic and go through all these things. But then I hope that this will also need some context of the tens of thousands who serve their bread on Slovenian railways. If nothing else, this article is extremely sensitive now. At this point, this article is sensitive. Sensitive because this really interferes with the functioning of Slovenian railways, in the production of the timetable that the agency wants to produce. And the agency can always control any train path? If a foreign operator wants to drive on Slovenian railways, the operator is obliged to delete this timetable and the agency checks. And if he finds out everything's all right, he'll get a ride and good-bye. Otherwise, the operator must correct this. Everything has to be at the agency. Why? Because it's probably the first step towards setting up a new manager. Do you know how he's gonna start? We're moving people from the Slovenian railways again - to what? To a new organ. Yes, for God's sake, let's leave them! We leave them on Slovenian railways because they work on the ground, they are all over Slovenia and they are the controller and all the powers and tasks are laid down by law, both by agencies and by the security authority, both by the investigating authority, the regulatory authority, the ministry. How many organs we have that can, if necessary, intervene in the operation of the controller without any concern. So, I propose that we take this amendment into account and that, if it is already intended, a different organisation of the Slovenian rail system should be prepared to do so. However, I warn you because this is often heard - and I would therefore conclude - that in the basic Directive 91/440, the second paragraph of Article 6 states that Member States may organise the separation of the carrier system and infrastructure by means of a clear division within a single carrier or that the infrastructure is managed by a separate entity. We believe that the solution to the Slovenian rail system remains so that, as we say, railways, bicycles and rails are in synergy, which is much better than breaking them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 16? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, Wednesday, 15 July 2009, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman. Messengers and Members! The national transport and security system has not yet been fully modernised in administrative, organisational and functional terms. Nevertheless, in 2008, we managed to reduce the number of deaths by 27%, who were severely injured by 15%, by 23%. Despite the sightings of traffic experts this year, this trend is still running in a similar way. In the half-year period of this year, the number of deaths is 14% lower than the same period of the previous year, 17% more severely injured and 10% more injured. With regard to the legal aspect of the national transport and safety system, we will be preparing draft four laws at the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior by the end of this year, namely the laws on motor vehicles, drivers, public roads and road transport rules, which will replace the existing comprehensive Road Safety Act in the future. These laws will certainly be in a broad public debate. From the organisational point of view of the security system, the possible organisational forms of a new and independent road safety organisation will be finalized this month. In terms of functional aspects, the preparation of a similar road safety plan for 2010 and 2011, and last week a first meeting of the Road Safety Council was held, where we started the process of preparing a new national safety programme with local scientists and experts. The purpose of the amendments and the basic guidelines for the drafting of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act were as follows. The adoption of certain measures that would, directly or indirectly, help to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis reflected in motor activities. In this respect, an amendment to the law is prepared which allows the vehicle to be cancelled for reasons on the part of the owner of the registered vehicle, the storage of registration plates for vehicles and buses for a longer period, the suspension of six-month technical checks for vehicles carrying dangerous goods. We also eliminate the inconsistencies that have arisen in the law with a view to implementing amendments to certain other laws: the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the Law on Offences, the Law on the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. However, we have some less difficult changes to the law and minor editorial corrections, which mainly provide an additional explanation of the terms: an organised convoy of military vehicles, a beginner driver, overspeed and so on. In view of all of this, I propose that you support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you again for the floor on behalf of the Transport Committee. The Transport Committee also considered this point or this law at its 4th meeting on 30 June. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State, Dr. Igro Jakomin, presented the reasons for amending and supplementing the proposal for a law relating to the adoption of certain measures which would, indirectly or directly, help to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis which are reflected in motor activities. The principles followed by the proposal for a law are: to remove individual administrative obstacles, by allowing registration plates for long-term trucks to be kept, to remove six-month technical checks for vehicles carrying dangerous goods, and these are also those measures that can certainly contribute, directly or indirectly, to mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis. It was also pointed out that it was necessary to clearly determine the actual competence for the registration of vehicles of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In fact, the 200th Article provides only that the manner of registration of vehicles of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the form and the contents of the registration plates shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for defence. However, it is not specified that the registration of these vehicles is carried out by the Ministry of Defence and that exceptions should be provided for the vehicles of the Slovenian Armed Forces when transporting the number of persons to be transported in or on military vehicles. This law will also specify more precisely the powers of the Ministry of Defence to ensure that vehicles are as operational as possible, and in any event also in any case vehicles in accordance with the regulations of our roads. The National Council Commission has also addressed this law and the proposal for a law supports it. The Commission therefore supports the Ministry's efforts to impose a new sanctions in terms of the rehabilitation programme, and the Commission proposes to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior to further strengthen efforts in the preparation of preventive measures to ensure a higher level of awareness, awareness and behaviour of participants in transport. Members of the Committee also considered that, on the basis of data from the Ministry concerning the number of road accidents on our roads and the causes of these accidents, both preventive security measures and in some cases criminal policy should be strengthened. The amendments to the law were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted by the Committee, after a discussion of the articles of the bill and the vote on the amendments tabled, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments are adopted and the amended bill is an integral part of the report, and, of course, this is the text that we are considering today at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act is certainly the most frequently amended law in the National Assembly, at least as far as I follow from the previous mandate. And if this is the result, which the Minister has pointed out today, that there is less damage and less death on our roads, then, of course, it is also possible to give meaningful commendation to the proposers of all these changes. Today's change, which is not just one, because some of them are, of course, meaningful and in the Slovenian National Party's Group we will also support these changes. It is appropriate that, at a time when the crisis is not working, we allow for a storage of license plates for a longer period of time, in order to reduce the cost of re-registration in this way. It also makes sense to assign these free parking cards to health services, social services, disability organisations, but here the Slovenian National Party's Group would have one comment or request that this list also includes legal persons carrying out care and care activities in this list. Perhaps, Your Honor, if that's possible. We noticed it a little too late. It would be good if we listed everything so that we can actually give them this parking card. As regards the amendments to technical inspections for vehicles carrying dangerous goods, we have here a comment which is not, of course, justified because the roofing law for vehicles carrying dangerous substances prescribes technical checks and also a deadline for carrying out these technical checks. That's how we go from a six-month review to a year. If we are talking about transporting dangerous substances, it would be wiser if such vehicles were inspected every six months. However, as has already been said, we are in conflict with a roof law that prescribes this for one year. Similarly, the amendment to the text relating to military vehicles or convoys of military vehicles makes some sense, since the Slovenian Armed Forces receive a new means of transport 8X8 and it is certain that this vehicle is also allowed for the transport of persons whose speeds are different from those prescribed by the traffic regime and in a narrow column we allow a different mode of transport than for other vehicles. We support all of those comments, complements to the Road Safety Act in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support a proposal for a law that will make it easier to operate and at least partially ease the crisis in which the motorists are in. It is also positive that the change of law brings some preventive measures to improve safety on our roads. It is unacceptable and tragic that in Slovenia there is no way to prevent or at least limit the number of tragic accidents in traffic. Preventive measures should therefore be provided to ensure road safety and to strengthen criminal policy. Training and learning for non-violent communication would also be necessary to introduce training for driving licences. It is all too obvious that some express their strength and impatience by driving too quickly, which is the greatest cause of accidents. We support the tightening of penalties in the case of returnees, the worst violators of traffic regulations in the hope that this measure will have an impact on disaster reduction and on the special treatment of beginners up to the age of 21 and two years from the first authorisation. It is also right to correct some of the misunderstandings and inconsistencies in the legislation. It seems appropriate for us to deal with military vehicles for the transport of more than 8 persons and to define police vehicles on duty or on specific conditions for the speeding of police vehicles, which monitor or track speed violators, to drive in a way and at a speed that is constantly controlled by the vehicle and does not endanger other road users or their property. In determining the rights to a parking card, we suggest that the Government introduces that parents should also have one or more infants under two years of age, access to public institutions, health centres and shopping centres. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act. Logistic activity and auto-transport activity as an important part of the last month are mainly marked by an economic crisis. If Slovenia has already benefited from its favourable positions a year and a half from the benefits of the growing eastern and, in particular, South-Eastern European markets, it is particularly hit by a large drop in its auto-transport activities this year. Unfortunately, however, we must find that we did not collect any cream that could have been collected during the conjuction in this activity. Of course, there are more reasons. In particular, there is a lack of supply of logistics operations which must upgrade transport, and the link between Luke Koper and the Central European rail network should be better and so on. If we have not been able to collect logistical cream in the Conjucture times, at least transport has grown, and in this particular transport activity. Today the situation is reversed and bad. So bad, there are many Slovenian automotive companies on the verge of survival. Therefore, in the LDS, the draft law under consideration is understood to be anti-crisis, as it brings some measures that will, directly or indirectly, help to reduce the negative consequences of the economic crisis reflected in motor activities. Since the contents of the measures have already been presented by the Minister, I will not specifically mention them. In the LDS, we agree and support them. The important ones also seem to us because they follow the higher tolls on trucks, which have been raised by 40% since July 1st. The promotion was necessary in order to ensure the sustainability of the motorway programme, which, unfortunately, had not undergone a sufficiently deliberate intervention into the toll system, and due to the rapid increase in transit freight traffic on Slovenian motorways in recent years. The government also eased the incentive by paying back excise duty, €130 per 1,000 litres of fuel. Furthermore, the Government is preparing changes in the payment of compensation for emergency transport, which also relieves motorists. In the LDS, we believe that the competent ministries and the Government are certainly aware of the problems of road transport activities and of the large number of people with whom this important activity or industry is also directly or indirectly linked. Under the current public financial options, the government has listened to the problems of motorists and has further assisted them with these activities in addition to the general anti-crisis measures already taken as activities. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not approve of the announced protest on August 1st this year, when the trucks are also supposed to start driving in protest on the vignette trails, which are intended only for passenger vehicles at toll stations. The reason for the protest is that by 31 July no toll will be imposed on trucks without stopping. An agreement whereby, by the end of this month, the imposition of uninterrupted tolls for trucks will also be concluded on 24 January of last year with the previous government, at the starting points which have changed substantially at that time, and in substantially different economic and other circumstances. We therefore expect that discussions will continue intensively between the Automobile Organisations and the Government on all the open issues that concern motorists or road transport activities. However, we expect the Government to re-examine some of the real and legitimate requirements of motorists and start to meet them. In the LDS, we face a demand for stricter supervision of foreign carriers in particular. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which drive without licences, too loaded and with technically incomplete cargo vehicles. [[...]] We do not see any legitimate reason for not being able to meet this requirement by the competent national authorities. As I have already said, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed administrative measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis in motor transport activities. They seem appropriate to us, so we will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Social Democrats will support the amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act. Among other things, due to the economic crisis, there has been an unfavorable road transport activity which, according to some data, reaches almost a tenth of the gross domestic product. The fact is that because of the reduction of orders today, too many trucks are standing in parking lots and causing additional costs to motorists. In today's conditions, therefore, the fully liberalised car transport market and the amendment to the Road Safety Act is more than welcome in times of severe economic crisis. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the amendment of the law will help to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis in the automotive sector and remove all the inconsistencies that have arisen in the law so far due to the application of amendments to other laws. The bill allows the registration of a vehicle and the storage of registration plates for trucks and buses for a longer period of time, i.e. a period of one year. The cancellation of the vehicle has so far been possible only for reasons other than those of the owner of the registered vehicle. The law also allows the vehicle to be cancelled for reasons on the part of the owner of the registered vehicle, at any time, while the registration plates must be kept with the registration organisation. In the Group of Social Democrats we have always taken into account the opinions of the professions, so we welcome the decision of the bill-maker to take into account the initiative of the Association for Transport within the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where car carriers have shown the need for a longer, one-year period for keeping license plates in the event of the vehicle being cancelled, as some of their vehicles do not use them for a certain period of time. This is due to the loss of transport orders during the economic crisis and the related non-competitiveness of Slovenian carriers on the international market. The possibility of keeping license plates for a longer period, which brings new pieces of legislation, will thus reduce the cost of vehicle owners in re-registration. However, in the event of re-registering, the carrier will be able to obtain the same plates immediately upon submission of the application, which will reduce the costs of the rapid procedure. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats supports the amendment of the law and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Darko Menich will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u140	Dearly beloved, welcome to all! The government is 22. 5. 2009 The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act was forwarded to the National Assembly by means of a legislative procedure. Its opinion was delivered by the Commission for National Regulation of the Council of State and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We discussed the opinions of the Committee on Trade and supported them in the debate. We also supported the amendments to Articles 1, 3 and 9 tabled by the coalition parties SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Our client didn't table any amendments. The proposed law proposes amendments to mitigate and reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis, which are reflected in the road transport activities, to allow the storage of registration plates for long-term trucks, the cessation of six-month technical checks on vehicles carrying dangerous goods. For these vehicles, technical inspections shall be carried out in accordance with other rules. We do not understand, however, how an article referring to drivers of beginners would have a positive impact on the mitigation of the economic crisis. In what way could this have a significant impact on reducing the negative effects of the crisis? In addition to that urgent change, which means mitigating the economic crisis, it is imperative that the concept of the driver of the beginner be defined more clearly in the law. The subject of legal regulation is also the elimination of the ambiguity of the provisions and non-compliances created in the law by the enforcement of other laws or by editorial corrections. The law also converts all monetary penalties from Slovenian to Euro Tolars. In the explanation of the law, the applicant also provided information on the accidents that took place in 2008. The data show that, while the number of accidents is decreasing, the proportion of the dead is also increasing, while the percentage of severely injured and may be injured. It should be noted, however, that the percentage of deaths caused by accidents in settlements is increasing. What measures will need to be taken to improve this situation: limit speed or increase penalties. This also means that more attention needs to be paid to the regulation of road traffic in settlements, the modernisation of roads and road signalling, the improvement of the safety of residents in settlements. Minister of Defence, in agreement with the Minister. the competent authorities of internal affairs shall lay down in more detail the means and conditions for driving the vehicles referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, specifying in particular the number of persons and conditions for the carriage of persons and the category of driving licences and the military competence of drivers. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall lay down in more detail the means and conditions for driving the vehicles referred to in the second paragraph of this Article, specifying in particular the number of persons and conditions for the carriage of persons and the category of driving licence. Military and non-military vehicles for special purposes which, by design and for purpose, may carry goods, persons or weapons and which are used for the operation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, shall not be subject to the provisions of this Law on time limits for carrying out technical checks, conditions and means of carrying out technical checks. The Minister responsible for Defence shall, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, lay down the time limits for carrying out the technical checks, conditions and modalities for carrying out the technical checks on vehicles referred to in the preceding paragraph. It would be appropriate to carry out as many technical checks as possible within the facilities in which they are produced, because it is pointless to drive them elsewhere and the technical review is also of questionable expertise. For example, I'm referring to Shostanj, where they build the Patri dish. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support and fully support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Damian Perne will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u142	Your Honor! In fact, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act is one of the few adopted unanimously by the Committee on Transport with Corrections involved. From this point of view, too, we really support the content of the proposal for this novel. In particular, it is a matter of substantive changes, which are primarily intended to help, directly or indirectly, to reduce the negative effects of the economic crisis and are mainly reflected in motor activities. Here we are talking about the removal of individual administrative barriers that allow the storage of registration plates for long-term trucks and the elimination of six-month technical checks for vehicles carrying dangerous goods. The following sets of rules, however, eliminate non-compliance with the rules governing the same legal question as regards the start of the counting of the time limit for obtaining a driving licence, clearly lay down the actual competence to register vehicles of the Slovenian Armed Forces and lay down exceptions to the transport of the number of persons to be transported in or on military vehicles. These are the solutions that have been proposed by the Government, and I would not now list them again, are the solutions that we will, as we say, be very happy to support in the Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u144	Mr Vice President, distinguished guests, Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the parliamentary group to supplement the Road Safety Act. There is no doubt that our country has also been hit by the global economic and financial crisis. More. Economic conditions continue to deteriorate in the domestic and international environment, and the main negative consequences can still be expected. The crisis is creating an economy in several areas. The period of this extreme uncertainty and crisis of trust our government is solving with a number of measures, which suggests the adoption of a third package of anti-crisis measures. Most of these measures are already in place, as a number of laws that include these measures have already been adopted. Others are still in the drafting phase of the draft law. In particular, much has already been achieved in the area of aid to large and small economic operators. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been actively active in the area of easing the impact of the economic crisis. The consequences of the global financial and economic crisis are also certain to be felt by road hauliers. The latter have also drawn up a number of proposals for a way out of the situation in which they have little impact. Thus, these proposals went towards reducing excise duties on gas oil, reducing high fines for traffic offences, tax reliefs for eco-vehicles in the direction of determining the toll after actual use, the legal 30-day payment deadline, the late payment of VAT, additional incentives for investing in development, the lifting of all restrictions on the application of incentives for investment, the modernisation of labour law with shorter notices, the reduction of departures and, in general, the direction of greater flexibility in employment. Some of these proposals are already in the implementation phase, as we have adopted the necessary laws here in the National Assembly. In addition, carriers have also demonstrated the need for a longer one-year period of storage of registration plates at the time of the registration of the vehicle, as some of their vehicles do not use them during the individual period. This is mainly due to the loss of transport orders during the economic crisis and the related non-competitiveness of Slovenian carriers on the international market. The government has listened to this proposal and has drawn up a proposal for a new law to be supported by DeSUS Members. We are confident that the possibility of keeping license plates for a longer period will reduce the cost of vehicle owners in re-registering the vehicle. The carrier will thus be able to obtain the same license plate upon re-registration immediately upon submission of the application, thereby reducing its costs as a result of the rapid procedure. Other devices and certificates which the carrier would otherwise need to replace are also attached to these plates if a new registration code was given for the same vehicle. Let me say that these costs for the carrier are quite high or significantly higher than the price of registration plates. In addition to this, carriers will be able to apply the reimbursement of already paid vehicle registration obligations, insurance, road use reimbursements and so on at the time of cancellation of the vehicle. The proposal for a new law includes some other amendments to the basic law, which go in the direction of immediate and visible effects on mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis in the field of auto-transport activities and certain editorial changes. All these proposed solutions are therefore designed to mitigate, at least slightly, the consequences of the crisis in the field of road transport and Members of the DeSUS will contribute to the adoption of these measures. Of course, in the hope that these changes will also serve their purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-07-14-SDZ5-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, Wednesday, 15 July, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. For today’s scheduled 12th item, we will consider tomorrow, 15. 7 by 22 p.m. of the agenda. With this I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at nine o'clock.
